
     ----CITATION---- 
        Nicholson, Meredith, 1866-1947. Rosalind at Red Gate: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2414
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
                ROSALIND AT RED GATE
                
            
            
            
            
            
                
                    The carnival of canoes
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    ROSALIND AT RED GATE
                
                By
                    MEREDITH NICHOLSON
                WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY ARTHUR I. KELLER
                
                    NEW YORK
                    GROSSET & DUNLAP PUBLISHERS
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT 1907 THE BOBBS-MERRILL COMPANY
                     NOVEMBER
                
            
            
            
                TO MY MOTHER
                
            
            
            
            
                
                    Rosalind. I thought thy heart had been wounded with the claws of a
                        lion.
                
                
                    Orlando: Wounded it is, but with the eyes of a lady. AS YOU LIKE IT.
                "Then dame Liones said unto Sir Gareth, Sir, I will lend you a ring, but
                    I would pray you as ye love me heartily let me have it again when the tournament
                    is done, for that ring increaseth my beauty much more than it is of itself. And
                    the virtue of my ring is that that is green it will turn to red, and that is red
                    it will turn in likeness to green, and that is blue it will turn to likeness of
                    white, and that is white, it will turn in likeness to blue, and so it will do of
                    all manner of colours."
                MORTE DARTHUR.
            
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    I A Telegram from Paul Stoddard 1
                        
                    II Confidences 21
                        
                    III I Meet Mr. Reginald Gillespie 39
                        
                    IV I Explore Tippecanoe Creek 62
                        
                    V A Fight on a House-Boat 74
                        
                    VI A Sunday's Mixed Affairs 92
                        
                    VII A Broken Oar 110
                        
                    VIII A Lady of Shadows and Starlight 126
                        
                    IX The Lights on St. Agatha's Pier 141
                        
                    X The Flutter of a Handkerchief 159
                        
                    XI The Carnival of Canoes 171
                        
                    XII The Melancholy of Mr. Gillespie 182
                        
                    XIII The Gate of Dreams 198
                        
                    XIV Battle Orchard 211
                        
                    XV I Undertake a Commission 227
                        
                    XVI An Odd Affair at Red Gate 237
                        
                    XVII How the Night Ended 255
                        
                    XVIII The Lady of the White Butterflies 263
                        
                    XIX Helen Takes Me to Task 280
                        
                    XX The Touch of Dishonor 291
                        
                    XXI A Blue Cloak and a Scarlet 303
                        
                    XXII Mr. Gillespie's Diversions 328
                        
                    XXIII The Rocket Signal 347
                        
                    XXIV "With My Hands" 365
                        
                    XXV Daybreak 379
                        
                
            
            
            
            
                ROSALIND AT RED GATE
                
            
            
        
        
            
            
                ROSALIND AT RED GATE
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    A TELEGRAM FROM PAUL STODDARD
                    
                        
                            Up, up, my heart! Up, up, my heart,
                            This day was made for thee!
                            For soon the hawthorn spray shall part,
                            And thou a face shalt see
                            That comes, O heart, O foolish heart,
                            This way to gladden thee.
                        
                        
                            H. C. Bunner.
                        
                    
                    Stoddard's telegram was brought to me on the Glenarm pier at four
                        o'clock Tuesday afternoon, the fifth of June. I am thus explicit,
                        for all the matters hereinafter described turn upon the receipt of
                        Stoddard's message, which was, to be sure, harmless enough in
                        itself, but, like many other scraps of paper that blow about the world, the
                        forerunner of confusion and trouble.
                    My friend, Mr. John Glenarm, had gone abroad for the summer with his family
                        and had turned over to me  his house at
                        Annandale that I might enjoy its seclusion and comfort while writing my book
                        on Russian Rivers.
                    
                    If John Glenarm had not taken his family abroad with him when he went to
                        Turkey to give the sultan's engineers lessons in bridge building;
                        if I had not accepted his kind offer of the house at Annandale for the
                        summer; and if Paul Stoddard had not sent me that telegram, I should never
                        have written this narrative. But such was the predestined way of it. I rose
                        from the boat I was caulking, and, with the waves from the receding steamer
                        slapping the pier, read this message: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        STAMFORD, CONN., June 5.
                                        
                                    
                                    Meet Miss Patricia Holbrook Annandale station, five twenty
                                        Chicago express and conduct her to St. Agatha's
                                        school, where she is expected. She will explain
                                        difficulties. I have assured her of your sympathy and aid.
                                        Will join you later if necessary. Imperative engagements
                                        call me elsewhere.
                                    STODDARD.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    To say that I was angry when I read this message is to belittle the truth. I
                        read and re-read it with growing heat. I had accepted Glenarm's
                        offer of the house at Annandale because it promised peace, and now I was
                        ordered by telegraph to meet a strange person of whom I had never heard,
                        listen to her story, and tender my sympathy and aid. I glanced at my watch.
                        It was  already after four. "Delayed in
                        transmission" was stamped across the telegraph formI learned later
                        that it had lain half the day in Annandale, New Yorkso that I was now face
                        to face with the situation, and without opportunity to fling his orders back
                        to Stoddard if I wanted to. Nor did I even know Stamford from Stamboul, and
                        I am not yet clear in my mindbeing an Irishman with rather vague notions of
                        American geographywhether Connecticut is north or south of
                        Massachusetts.
                    "Ijima!"
                    I called my Japanese boy from the boat-house, and he appeared, paint-brush in
                        hand.
                    "Order the double trap, and tell them to hurry."
                    I reflected, as I picked up my coat and walked toward the house, that if any
                        one but Paul Stoddard had sent me such a message I should most certainly
                        have ignored it; but I knew him as a man who did not make demands or impose
                        obligations lightly. As the founder and superior of the Protestant religious
                        Order of the Brothers of Bethlehem he was, I knew, an exceedingly busy man.
                        His religious house was in the Virginia mountains; but he spent much time in
                        quiet, humble service in city slums, in lumber-camps, in the mines of
                        Pennsylvania;  and occasionally he appeared like
                        a prophet from the wilderness in some great church of New York, and preached
                        with a marvelous eloquence to wondering throngs.
                    The trap swung into the arched driveway and I bade the coachman make haste to
                        the Annandale station. The handsome bays were soon trotting swiftly toward
                        the village, while I drew on my gloves and considered the situation. A
                        certain Miss Holbrook, of whose existence I had been utterly ignorant an
                        hour before, was about to arrive at Annandale. A clergyman, whom I had not
                        seen for two years, had telegraphed me from a town in Connecticut to meet
                        this person, conduct her to St. Agatha's Schooljust closed for the
                        summer, as I knewand to volunteer my services in difficulties that were
                        darkly indicated in a telegram of forty-five words. The sender of the
                        message I knew to be a serious character, and a gentleman of distinguished
                        social connections. The name of the lady signified nothing except that she
                        was unmarried; and as Stoddard's acquaintance was among all sorts
                        and conditions of men I could assume nothing more than that the unknown had
                        appealed to him as a priest and that he had sent her to Lake Annandale to
                        shake off the burdens of the  world in the
                        conventual air of St. Agatha's. Highborn Italian ladies, I knew,
                        often retired to remote convents in the Italian hills for meditation or
                        penance. Miss Holbrook's age I placed conservatively at twentynine;
                        for no better reason, perhaps, than that I am thirty-two.
                    The blue arch of June does not encourage difficulties, doubts or
                        presentiments; and with the wild rose abloom along the fences and with
                        robins tossing their song across the highway I ceased to growl and found
                        curiosity getting the better of my temper. Expectancy, after all, is the
                        cheerfullest tonic of life, and when the time comes when I can see the whole
                        of a day's programme from my breakfast-table I shall be ready for
                        man's last adventure.
                    I smoothed my gloves and fumbled my tie as the bays trotted briskly along the
                        lake shore. The Chieago express whistled for Annandale just as we gained the
                        edge of the village. It paused a grudging moment and was gone before we
                        reached the station. I jumped out and ran through the waiting-room to the
                        platform, where the agent was gathering up the mail-bags, while an assistant
                        loaded a truck with trunks. I glanced about, and the moment was an important
                        one in my life. Standing  quite alone beside
                        several pieces of hand-baggage was a ladyunmistakably a ladyleaning lightly
                        upon an umbrella, and holding under her arm a magazine. She was clad in
                        brown, from bonnet to shoes; the umbrella and magazine cover were of like
                        tint, and even the suitcase nearest her struck the same note of color. There
                        was no doubt whatever as to her identity; I did not hesitate a moment; the
                        lady in brown was Miss Holbrook, and she was an old lady, a dear, bewitching
                        old lady, and as I stepped toward her, her eyes brightenedthey, too, were
                        brown!and she put out her brown-gloved hand with a gesture so frank and
                        cordial that I was won at once.
                    "Mr. DonovanMr. Laurance DonovanI am sure of it!"
                    "Miss HolbrookI am equally confident!" I said. "I
                        am sorry to be late, but Father Stoddard's message was
                        delayed."
                    "You are kind to respond at all," she said, her wonderful
                        eyes upon me; "but Father Stoddard said you would not fail
                        me."
                    "He is a man of great faith! But I have a trap waiting. We can talk
                        more comfortably at St. Agatha's."
                    
                    "Yes; we are to go to the school. Father Stoddard kindly arranged
                        it. It is quite secluded, he assured me."
                    "You will not be disappointed, Miss Holbrook, if seclusion is what
                        you seek."
                    I picked up the brown bag and turned away, but she waited and glanced about.
                        Her "we" had puzzled me; perhaps she had brought a maid,
                        and I followed her glance toward the window of the telegraph office.
                    "Oh, Helen; my niece, Helen Holbrook, is with me. I wished to wire
                        some instructions to my housekeeper at home. Father Stoddard may not have
                        explainedthat it is partly on Helen's account that I am coming
                        here."
                    "No; he explained nothingmerely gave me my instructions," I
                        laughed. "He gives orders in a most militant fashion."
                    In a moment I had been presented to the niece, and had noted that she was
                        considerably above her aunt's height; that she was dark, with eyes
                        that seemed quite black in certain lights, and that she bowed, as her aunt
                        presented me, without offering her hand, and murmured my name in a voice
                        musical, deep and full, and agreeable to hear.
                    She took their checks from her purse, and I called the porter and arranged
                        for the transfer of their luggage  to St.
                        Agatha's. We were soon in the trap with the bays carrying us at a
                        lively clip along the lake road. It was all perfectly new to them and they
                        expressed their delight in the freshness of the young foliage; the billowing
                        fields of ripening wheat, the wild rose, blackberry and elderberry filling
                        the angles of the stake-and-rider fences, and the flashing waters of the
                        lake that carried the eye to distant wooded shores. I turned in my seat by
                        the driver to answer their questions.
                    "There's a summer resort somewhere on the lake; how far is
                        that from the school?" asked the girl.
                    "That's Port Annandale. It's two or three miles
                        from St. Agatha's," I replied. "On this side and
                        all the way to the school there are farms. The lake looks like an oval pond
                        as we see it here, but there are several long arms that creep off into the
                        woods, and there's another lake of considerable size to the north.
                        Port Annandale lies yonder."
                    "Of course we shall see nothing of it," said the younger
                        Miss Holbrook with finality.
                    I sought in ain for any resemblance between the two women; they were utterly
                        unlike. The little brown lady was interested and responsive enough; she
                        turned toward her niece with undisguised affection as we talked,  but I caught several times a look of
                        unhappiness in her face, and the brow that Time had not touched gathered in
                        lines of anxiety and care. The girl's manner toward her aunt was
                        wholly kind and sympathetic.
                    "I'm sure it will be delightful here, Aunt Pat. Wild roses
                        and blue water! I'm quite in love with the pretty lake
                        already."
                    This was my first introduction to the diminutive of Patricia, and it seemed
                        very fitting, and as delightful as the dear little woman herself. She must
                        have caught my smile as the niece so addressed her for the first time and
                        she smiled back at me in her charming fashion.
                    "You are an Irishman, Mr. Donovan, and Pat must sound
                        natural."
                    "Oh, all who love Aunt Patricia call her Aunt Pat!"
                        exclaimed the girl.
                    "Then Miss Holbrook undoubtedly hears it often," said I,
                        and was at once sorry for my bit of blarney, for the tears shone suddenly in
                        the dear brown eyes, and the niece recurred to the summer landscape as a
                        topic, and talked of the Glenarm place, whose stone wall we were now
                        passing, until we drove into the grounds of St. Agatha's and up to
                        the main entrance of the school,  where a
                        Sister in the brown garb of her order stood waiting.
                    I first introduced myself to Sister Margaret, who was in charge, and then
                        presented the two ladies who were to be her guests. It was disclosed that
                        Sister Theresa, the head of the school, had wired instructions from York
                        Harbor, where she was spending the summer, touching Miss Holbrook's
                        reception, and her own rooms were at the disposal of the guests. St.
                        Agatha's is, as all who are attentive to such matters know, a
                        famous girls' school founded by Sister Theresa, and one felt its
                        quality in the appointments of the pretty, cool parlor where we were
                        received. Sister Margaret said just the right thing to every one, and I was
                        glad to find her so capable a person, fully able to care for these exiles
                        without aid from my side of the wall. She was a tall, fair young woman, with
                        a cheerful countenance, and her merry eyes seemed always to be laughing at
                        one from the depths of her brown hood. Pleasantly hospitable, she rang for a
                        maid.
                    "Helen, if you will see our things disposed of I will detain Mr.
                        Donovan a few minutes," said Miss Holbrook.
                    "Or I can come again in an hourI am your near  neighbor," I remarked, thinking she might wish to rest
                        from her journey.
                    "I am quite ready," she replied, and I bowed to Helen
                        Holbrook and to Sister Margaret, who went out, followed by the maid. Miss
                        Patyou will pardon me if I begin at once to call her by this name, but it
                        fits her so capitally, it is so much a part of her, that I can not
                        resistMiss Pat put off her bonnet without fuss, placed it on the table and
                        sat down in a windowseat whence the nearer shore of the lake was visible
                        across the strip of smooth lawn.
                    "Father Stoddard thought it best that I should explain the necessity
                        that brings us here," she began; "but the place is so
                        quiet that it seems absurd to think that our troubles could follow
                        us."
                    I bowed. The idea of this little woman's being driven into exile by
                        any sort of trouble seemed preposterous. She drew off her gloves and leaned
                        back comfortably against the bright pillows of the window-seat.
                        "Watch the hands of the guest in the tent," runs the
                        Arabian proverb. Miss Pat's hands seemed to steal appealingly out
                        of her snowy cuffs; there was no age in them. The breeding showed there as
                        truly as in her eyes and face. On the third finger of her left hand she wore
                        a singularly  fine emerald, set in an oddly
                        carved ring of Roman gold.
                    "Will you please close the door?" she said, and when I came
                        back to the window she began at once.
                    "It is not pleasant, as you must understand, to explain to a
                        stranger an intimate and painful family trouble. But Father Stoddard advised
                        me to be quite frank with you."
                    "That is the best way, if there is a possibility that I may be of
                        service," I said in the gentlest tone I could command.
                        "But tell me no more than you wish. I am wholly at your service
                        without explanations."
                    "It is in reference to my brother; he has caused me a great deal of
                        trouble. When my father died nearly ten years agohe lived to a great agehe
                        left a considerable estate, a large fortune. A part of it was divided at
                        once among my two brothers and myself. The remainder, amounting to one
                        million dollars, was left to me, with the stipulation that I was to make a
                        further division between my brothers at the end of ten years, or at my
                        discretion. I was older than my brothers, much older, and my father left me
                        with this responsibility, not knowing what it would lead to. Henry and
                        Arthur succeeded to my father's business, the banking  firm of Holbrook Brothers, in New York. The
                        bank continued to prosper for a time; then it collapsed suddenly. The debts
                        were all paid, but Arthur disappearedthere were unpleasant
                        rumors"
                    She paused a moment, and looked out of the window toward the lake, and I saw
                        her clasped hands tighten; but she went on bravely.
                    "That was seven years ago. Since then Henry has insisted on the
                        final division of the property. My father had a high sense of honor and he
                        stipulated that if either of his sons should be guilty of any dishonorable
                        act he should forfeit his half of the million dollars. Henry insists that
                        Arthur has forfeited his rights and that the amount withheld should be paid
                        to him now; but his conduct has been such that I feel I should serve him ill
                        to pay him so large a sum of money. Moreover, I owe something to his
                        daughterto Helen. Owing to her father's reckless life I have had
                        her make her home with me for several years. She is a noble girl, and very
                        beautifulyou must have seen, Mr. Donovan, that she is an unusually beautiful
                        girl."
                    "Yes," I assented.
                    "And better than that," she said with feeling,
                        "she is a very lovely character."
                    
                    I nodded, touched to see how completely Helen Holbrook filled and satisfied
                        her aunt's life. Miss Pat continued her story.
                    "My brother first sought to frighten me into a settlement by
                        menacing my own peace; and now he includes Helen in his animosity. My house
                        at Stamford was set on fire a month ago; then thieves entered it and I was
                        obliged to leave. We arranged to go abroad, but when we got to the steamer
                        we found Henry waiting with a threat to follow us if I did not accede to his
                        demands. It was Father Stoddard who suggested this place, and we came by a
                        circuitous route, pausing here and there to see whether we were followed. We
                        were in the Adirondacks for a week, then we went into Canada, crossed the
                        lake to Cleveland and finally came on here. You can imagine how
                        distressinghow wretched all this has been."
                    "Yes; it is a sad story, Miss Holbrook. But you are not likely to be
                        molested here. You have a lake on one side, a high wall shuts off the road,
                        and I beg you to accept me as your near neighbor and protector. The servants
                        at Mr. Glenarm's house have been with him for several years and are
                        undoubtedly trustworthy. It is not likely that your brother will find you
                        here, but if  he shouldwe will deal with that
                        situation when the time comes!"
                    "You are very reassuring; no doubt we shall not need to call on you.
                        And I hope you understand," she continued anxiously, "that
                        it is not to keep the money that I wish to avoid my brother; that if it were
                        wise to make this further division at this time and it were for his good, I
                        should be glad to give him allevery penny of it."
                    "Pardon me, but the other brotherhe has not made similar demandsyou
                        do not fear him?" I inquired with some hesitation.
                    "Nono!" And a tremulous smile played about her lips.
                        "Poor Arthur! He must be dead. He ran away after the bank failure
                        and I have never heard from him since. He and Henry were very unlike, and I
                        always felt more closely attached to Arthur. He was not brilliant, like
                        Henry; he was gentle and quiet in his ways, and father was often impatient
                        with him. Henry has been very bitter toward Arthur and has appealed to me on
                        the score of Arthur's ill-doing. It took all his own fortune, he
                        says, to save Arthur and the family name from dishonor."
                    She was remarkably composed throughout this recital,  and I marveled at her more and more. Now, after a
                        moment's silence, she turned to me with a smile.
                    "We have been annoyed in another way. It is so ridiculous that I
                        hesitate to tell you of it"
                    "Pray do notyou need tell me nothing more, Miss
                        Holbrook."
                    "It is best for you to know. My niece has been annoyed the past year
                        by the attentions of a young man whom she greatly dislikes and whose
                        persistence distresses her very much indeed."
                    "Well, he can hardly find her here; and if he should"
                    Miss Holbrook folded her arms upon her knees and smiled, bending toward me.
                        The loveliness of her hair, which she wore parted and brushed back at the
                        temples, struck me for the first time. The brownI was sure it had been
                        brown!had yielded to whitethere was no gray about it; it was the soft white
                        of summer clouds.
                    "Oh!" she exclaimed; "he isn't a violent
                        person, Mr. Donovan. He's silly, absurd, idiotic! You need fear no
                        violence from him."
                    "And of course your niece is not interestedhe's not a
                        fellow to appeal to her imagination."
                    "That is quite true; and then in our present unhappy  circumstances, with her father hanging over
                        her like a menace, marriage is far from her thoughts. She feels that even if
                        she were attached to a man and wished to marry, she could not. I wish she
                        did not feel so; I should be glad to see her married and settled in her own
                        home. These difficulties can not last always; but while they continue we are
                        practically exiles. Helen has taken it all splendidly, and her loyalty to me
                        is beyond anything I could ask. It's a very dreadful thing, as you
                        can understand, for brother and sister and father and child to be arrayed
                        against one another."
                    I wished to guide the talk into cheerfuller channels before leaving. Miss Pat
                        seemed amused by the thought of the unwelcome suitor, and I determined to
                        leave her with some word in reference to him.
                    "If a strange knight in quest of a lady comes riding through the
                        wood, how shall I know him? What valorous words are written on his shield,
                        and does he carry a lance or a suit-case?"
                    "He is the Knight of the Sorrowful Countenance," said Miss
                        Holbrook in my own key, as she rose. "You would know him anywhere
                        by his clothes and the remarkable language he uses. He is not to be taken
                        very seriouslythat's the trouble with him! But I have been  afraid that he and my brother might join hands
                        in the pursuit of us."
                    "But the Sorrowful Knight would not advance his interests by thathe
                        could only injure his cause!" I exclaimed.
                    "Oh, he has no subtlety; he's a very foolish person; he
                        blunders at windmills with quixotic ardor. You understand, of course, that
                        our troubles are not known widely. We used to be a family of some
                        dignity,"and Miss Patricia drew herself up a trifle and looked me
                        straight in the eyes"and I hope still for happier
                        years."
                    "Won't you please say good night to Miss Holbrook for
                        me?" I said, my hand on the door.
                    And then an odd thing happened. I was about to take my departure through the
                        front hall when I remembered a short cut to the Glenarm gate from the rear
                        of the school. I walked the length of the parlor to a door that would, I
                        knew, give ready exit to the open. I bowed to Miss Pat, who stood erect,
                        serene, adorable, in the room that was now touched with the first shadows of
                        waning day, and her slight figure was so eloquent of pathos, her smile so
                        brave, that I bowed again, with a reverence I already felt for her.
                    
                    Then as I flung the door open and stepped into the hall I heard the soft
                        swish of skirts, a light furtive step, and caught a glimpseor could have
                        sworn I didof white. There was only one Sister in the house, and a few
                        servants; it seemed incredible that they could be eavesdropping upon this
                        guest of the house. I crossed a narrow hall, found the rear door, and passed
                        out into the park. Something prompted me to turn when I had taken a dozen
                        steps toward the Glenarm gate. The vines on the gray stone buildings were
                        cool to the eye with their green that hung like a tapestry from eaves to
                        earth. And suddenly, as though she came out of the ivied wall itself, Helen
                        Holbrook appeared on the little balcony opening from one of the first-floor
                        rooms, rested the tips of her fingers on the green vine-clasped rail, and,
                        seeing me, bowed and smiled.
                    She was gowned in white, with a scarlet ribbon at her throat, and the green
                        wall vividly accented and heightened her outline. I stood, staring like a
                        fool for what seemed a century of heart-beats as she flashed forth there,
                        out of what seemed a sheer depth of masonry; then she turned her head
                        slightly, as though in disdain of me, and looked off toward the lake. I had
                        uncovered at sight of her, and found, when I gained  the broad hall at Glenarm House, that I still carried my
                        hat.
                    An hour later, as I dined in solitary state, that white figure was still
                        present before me; and I could not help wondering, though the thought
                        angered me, whether that graceful head had been bent against the closed door
                        of the parlor at St. Agatha's, and (if such were the fact) why
                        Helen Holbrook, who clearly enjoyed the full confidence of her aunt, should
                        have stooped to such a trick to learn what Miss Patricia said to me.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    CONFIDENCES
                    
                        
                            When Spring grows old, and sleepy winds
                            Set from the South with odors sweet,
                            I see my love in green, cool groves,
                            Speed down dusk aisles on shining feet.
                        
                        
                            She throws a kiss and bids me run,
                            In whispers sweet as roses' breath;
                            I know I can not win the race,
                            And at the end I know is death.
                        
                        
                            O race of love! we all have run
                            Thy happy course through groves of spring,
                            And cared not, when at last we lost,
                            For life, or death, or anything!
                        
                        
                            Atalanta: Maurice Thompson.
                    
                    Miss Patricia received me the following afternoon on the lawn at St.
                        Agatha's where, in a cool angle of the buildings, a maid was laying
                        the cloth on a small table.
                    "It is good of you to come. Helen will be here presently. She went
                        for a walk on the shore."
                    "You must both of you make free of the Glenarm preserve.
                        Don't consider the wall over there a barricade;  it's merely to add to the
                        picturesqueness of the landscape."
                    Miss Patricia was quite rested from her journey, and expressed her pleasure
                        in the beauty and peace of the place in frank and cordial terms. And to-day
                        I suspected, what later I fully believed, that she affected certain
                        old-fashioned ways in a purely whimsical spirit. Her heart was young enough,
                        but she liked to play at being old! Sister Theresa's own apartments
                        had been placed at her disposal, and the house, Miss Patricia declared, was
                        delightfully cool.
                    "I could ask nothing better than this. Sister Margaret is most kind
                        in every way. Helen and I have had a peaceful twenty-four hoursthe first in
                        two yearsand I feel that at last we have found safe harborage."
                    "Rest assured of it, Miss Holbrook! The summe
                        colony is away off there and you need see nothing of it; it is quite out of
                        sight and sound. You have seen Annandalethe sleepiest of American villages,
                        with a curio shop and a candy and soda-fountain place and a picture
                        post-card booth which the young ladies of St. Agatha's patronize
                        extensively when they are here. The summer residents are just beginning to
                        arrive on their shore, but they will not molest you. If they try to land  over here we'll train our guns on
                        them and blow them out of the water. As your neighbor beyond the iron gate
                        of Glenarm I beg that you will look upon me as your man-at-arms. My sword,
                        Madam, I lay at your feet."
                    "Sheathe it, Sir Laurance; nor draw it save in honorable
                        cause," she returned on the instant, and then she was grave
                        again.
                    "Sister Margaret is most kind in every way; she seems wholly
                        discreet, and has assured me of her interest and sympathy," said
                        Miss Patricia, as though she wished me to confirm her own impression.
                    "There's no manner of doubt of it. She is Sister
                        Theresa's assistant. It is inconceivable that she could possibly
                        interfere in your affairs. I believe you are perfectly safe here in every
                        way, Miss Holbrook. If at the end of a week your brother has made no sign,
                        we shall be reasonably certain that he has lost the trail."
                    "I believe that is true; and I thank you very much."
                    I had come prepared to be disillusioned, to find her charm gone, but her
                        small figure had even an added distinction; her ways, her manner an added
                        grace. I found myself resisting the temptation to call her quaint, as
                        implying too much; yet I felt that in some olden  time, on some noble estate in England, or, better, in some storied
                        colonial mansion in Virginia, she must have had her home in years long gone,
                        living on with no increase of age to this present. She was her own law, I
                        judged, in the matter of fashion. I observed later a certain uniformity in
                        the cut of her gowns, as though, at some period, she had found a type wholly
                        comfortable and to her liking and thereafter had clung to it. She suggested
                        peace and gentleness and a beautiful patience; and I strove to say amusing
                        things, that I might enjoy her rare luminous smile and catch her eyes when
                        she gave me her direct gaze in the quick, challenging way that marked her as
                        a woman of position and experience, who had been more given to command than
                        to obey.
                    "Did you think I was never coming, Aunt Pat? That shore-path calls
                        for more strenuous effort than I imagined, and I had to change my gown
                        again."
                    Helen Holbrook advanced quickly and stood by her aunt's chair,
                        nodding to me smilingly, and while we exchanged the commonplaces of the day,
                        she caught up Miss Pat's hand and held it a moment caressingly. The
                        maid now brought the tea, Miss Pat poured it and the talk went forward
                        cheerily.
                    
                    The girl was in white, and at the end of a curved bench, with a variety of
                        colored cushions about her and the bright sward and tranquil lake beyond,
                        she made a picture wholly agreeable to my eyes. Her hair was dead black, and
                        I saw for the first time that its smooth line on her brow was broken by one
                        of those curious, rare little points called widow's peak. They are
                        not common, nor, to be sure, are they important; yet it seemed somehow to
                        add interest to her graceful pretty head.
                    It was quite clear in a moment that Helen was bent on treating me rather more
                        amiably than on the day before, while at the same time showing her aunt
                        every deference. I was relieved to find them both able to pitch their talk
                        in a light key. The thought of sitting daily and drearily discussing their
                        troubles with two exiled women had given me a dark moment at the station the
                        day before; but we were now having tea in the cheerfullest fashion in the
                        world; and, as for their difficulties, I had no idea whatever that they
                        would be molested so long as they remained quietly at Annandale. Miss Pat
                        and her niece were not the hysterical sort; both apparently enjoyed sound
                        health, and they were not the kind of women who see ghosts in every alcove
                        and go to bed to escape the lightning.
                    
                    "Oh, Mr. Donovan," said Helen Holbrook, as I put down her
                        cup, "there are some letters I should like to write and I wish you
                        would tell me whether it is safe to have letters come for us to Annandale;
                        or would it be better to send nothing from here at all? It does seem odd to
                        have to ask such a question" and she concluded in a tone of
                        distress and looked at me appealingly.
                    "We must take no risks whatever, Helen," remarked Miss Pat
                        decisively.
                    "Does no one know where you are?" I inquired of Miss
                        Patricia.
                    "My lawyer, in New York, has the name of this place, sealed; and he
                        put it away in a safety box and promised not to open it unless something of
                        very great importance happened."
                    "It is best to take no chances," I said; "so I
                        should answer your question in the negative, Miss Holbrook. In the course of
                        a few weeks everything may seem much clearer; and in the meantime it will be
                        wiser not to communicate with the outer world."
                    "They deliver mail through the country here, don't
                        they?" asked Helen. "It must be a great luxury for the
                        farmers to have the post-office at their very doors."
                    
                    "Yes, but the school and Mr. Glenarm always send for their own mail
                        to Annandale."
                    "Our mail is all going to my lawyer," said Miss Pat,
                        "and it must wait until we can have it sent to us without
                        danger."
                    "Certainly, Aunt Pat," replied Helen readily. "I
                        didn't mean to give Mr. Donovan the impression that my
                        correspondence was enormous; but it is odd to be shut up in this way and not
                        to be able to do as one likes in such little matters."
                    The wind blew in keenly from the lake as the sun declined and Helen went
                        unasked and brought an India shawl and put it about Miss Pat's
                        shoulders. The girl's thoughtfulness for her aunt's
                        comfort pleased me, and I found myself liking her better.
                    It was time for me to leave and I picked up my hat and stick. As I started
                        away I was aware that Helen Holbrook detained me without in the least
                        appearing to do so, following a few steps to gain, as she said, a certain
                        view of the lake that was particularly charming.
                    "There is nothing rugged in this landscape, but it is delightful in
                        its very tranquillity," she said, as we loitered on, the shimmering
                        lake before us, the wood behind ablaze with the splendor of the sun. She
                        spoke of  the beauty of the beeches, which are
                        of noble girth in this region, and paused to indicate a group of them whose
                        smooth trunks were like massive pillars. As we looked back I saw that Miss
                        Pat had gone into the house, driven no doubt by the persistency of the west
                        wind that crisped the lake. Helen's manner changed abruptly, and
                        she said:
                    "If any difficulty should arise here, if my poor father should find
                        out where we are, I trust that you may be able to save my aunt anxiety and
                        pain. That is what I wished to say to you, Mr. Donovan."
                    "Certainly," I replied, meeting her eyes, and noting a
                        quiver of the lips that was eloquent of deep feeling and loyalty. She
                        continued beside me, her head erect as though by a supreme effort of
                        self-control, and with I knew not what emotions shaking her heart. She
                        continued silent as we marched on and I felt that there was the least
                        defiance in her air; then she drew a handkerchief from her sleeve, touched
                        it lightly to her eyes, and smiled.
                    "I had not thought of quite following you home! Here is Glenarm
                        gateand there lie your battlements and towers."
                    "Rather they belong to my old friend, John Glenarm.  In his goodness of heart he gave me the use of
                        the place for the summer; and as generosity with another's property
                        is very easy, I hereby tender you our fleetcanoes, boats, steam launchand
                        the stable, which contains a variety of traps and a good riding-horse or
                        two. They are all at your service. I hope that you and your aunt will not
                        fail to avail yourselves of each and all. Do you ride? I was specially
                        charged to give the horses exercise."
                    "Thank you very much," she said. "When we are well
                        settled, and feel more secure, we shall be glad to call on you. Father
                        Stoddard certainly served us well in sending us to you, Mr.
                        Donovan."
                    In a moment she spoke again, quite slowly, and with, I thought, a very pretty
                        embarrassment.
                    "Aunt Pat may have spoken of another difficultya mere annoyance,
                        really," and she smiled at me gravely.
                    "Oh, yes; of the youngster who has been troubling you. Your father
                        and he have, of course, no connection."
                    "No; decidedly not. But he is a very offensive person, Mr. Donovan.
                        It would be a matter of great distress to me if he should pursue us to this
                        place."
                    "It is inconceivable that a gentlemanif he is a gentlemanshould
                        follow you merely for the purpose of  annoying
                        you. I have heard that young ladies usually know how to get rid of
                        importunate suitors."
                    "I have heard that they have that reputation," she laughed
                        back. "But Mr. Gillespie"
                    "That's the name, is it? Your aunt did not mention
                        it."
                    "Yes; he lives quite near us at Stamford. Aunt Pat disliked his
                        father before him, and now that he is dead she visits her displeasure on the
                        son; but she is quite right about it. He is a singularly unattractive and
                        uninteresting person, and I trust that he will not find us."
                    "That is quite unlikely. You will do well to forget all about
                        himforget all your troubles and enjoy the beauty of these June
                        days."
                    We had reached Glenarm gate, and St. Agatha's was now hidden by the
                        foliage along the winding path. I was annoyed to realize how much I enjoyed
                        this idling. I felt my pulse quicken when our eyes met. Her dark oval face
                        was beautiful with the loveliness of noble Italian women I had seen on great
                        occasions in Rome. I had not known that hair could be so black, and it was
                        fine and soft; the widow's peak was as sharply defined on her
                        smooth forehead as though done with crayon. Dark women should always wear
                        white, I reflected, as  she paused and lifted
                        her head to listen to the chime in the tower of the little Gothic chapela
                        miniature affair that stood by the walla chime that flung its melody on the
                        soft summer air like a handful of rose-leaves. She picked up a twig and
                        broke it in her fingers; and looking down I saw that she wore on her left
                        hand an emerald ring identical with the one worn by her aunt. It was so like
                        that I should have believed it the same, had I not noted Miss Pat's
                        ring but a few minutes before. Helen threw away the bits of twig when we
                        came to the wall, and, as I swung the gate open, paused mockingly with
                        clasped hands and peered inside.
                    "I must go back," she said. Then, her manner changing, she
                        dropped her hands at her side and faced me.
                    "You will warn me, Mr. Donovan, of the first approach of trouble. I
                        wish to save my aunt in every way possibleshe means so much to me; she has
                        made life easy for me where it would have been hard."
                    "There will be no trouble, Miss Holbrook. You are as safe as though
                        you were hidden in a cave in the Apennines; but I shall give you warning at
                        the first sign of danger."
                    "My father isis quite relentless," she murmured, averting
                        her eyes.
                    
                    I turned to retrace the path with her; but she forbade me and was gone
                        swiftlya flash of white through the treesbefore I could parley with her. I
                        stared after her as long as I could hear her light tread in the path. And
                        when she had vanished a feeling of loneliness possessed me and the country
                        quiet mocked me with its peace.
                    I clanged the Glenarm gates together sharply and went in to dinner; but I
                        pondered long as I smoked on the star-hung terrace. Through the wood
                        directly before me I saw lights flash from the small craft of the lake, and
                        the sharp tum-tum of a naphtha launch rang upon the summer night. Insects
                        made a blur of sound in the dark and the chant of the katydids rose and fell
                        monotonously.
                    I flung away a half-smoked cigar and lighted my pipe. There was no disguising
                        the truth that the coming of the Holbrooks had got on my nervesat least that
                        was my phrase for it. Now that I thought of it, they were impudent intruders
                        and Paul Stoddard had gone too far in turning them over to me. There was
                        nothing in their story, anyhow; it was preposterous, and I resolved to let
                        them severely alone. But even as these thoughts ran through my mind I turned
                        toward St. Agatha's,  whose lights
                        were visible through the trees, and I knew that there was nothing honest in
                        my impatience. Helen Holbrook's eyes were upon me and her voice
                        called from the dark; and when the clock chimed nine in the tower beyond the
                        wall memory brought back the graceful turn of her dark head, the firm curve
                        of her throat as she had listened to the mellow fling of the bells.
                    And here, for the better instruction of those friends who amuse themselves
                        with the idea that I am unusually susceptible, as they say, to the charms of
                        woman, I beg my reader's indulgence while I state, quite honestly,
                        the flimsy basis of this charge. Once, in my twentieth year, while I was
                        still an undergraduate at Trinity, Dublin, I went to the Killarney Lakes for
                        a week's end. My hosta fellow studenthad taken me home to see his
                        horses; but it was not his stable, but his blueeyed sister, that captivated
                        my fancy. I had not known that anything could be so beautiful as she was,
                        and I feel and shall always feel that it was greatly to my credit that I
                        fell madly in love with her. Our affair was fast and furious, and lamentably
                        detrimental to my standing at Trinity. I wrote some pretty bad verses in her
                        praise, and I am not in the least ashamed of that weakness, or that the best
                        florist in Ireland prospered at  the expense of
                        my tailor and laundress. It lasted a year, and to say that it was like a
                        beautiful dream is merely to betray my poor command of language. The end,
                        too, was fitting enough, and not without its compensations: I kissed her one
                        nightshe will not, I am sure, begrudge me the confession; it was a moonlight
                        night in May; and thereafter within two months she married a Belfast
                        brewer's son who could not have rhymed eyes with skies to save his
                        malted soul.
                    Embittered by this experience I kept out of trouble for two years, and my
                        next affair was with a widow, two years my senior, whom I met at a house in
                        Scotland where I was staying for the shooting. She was a bit mournful, and
                        lavender became her well. I forgot the grouse after my first day, and gave
                        myself up to consoling her. She had, as no other woman I have known has had,
                        a geniusit was nothing lessfor graceful attitudes. To surprise her before an
                        open fire, her prettily curved chin resting on her pink little palm, her
                        eyes bright with lurking tears, and to see her lips twitch with the effort
                        to restrain a sob when one came suddenly upon herbut the picture is not for
                        my clumsy hand! I have never known whether she suffered me to make love to
                        her merely as a distraction, or whether she 
                        was briefly amused by my ardor and entertained by the new phrases of
                        adoration I contrived for her. I loved her quite sincerely; I am glad to
                        have experienced the tumult she stirred in meglad that the folding of her
                        little hands upon her knees, as she bent toward the lighted hearth in that
                        old Scotch manor, and her low, murmuring, mournful voice, made my heart
                        jump. I told herand recall it without shamethat her eyes were adorable
                        islands aswim in brimming seas, and that her hands were fluttering white
                        doves of peace. I found that I could maintain that sort of thing without
                        much trouble for an hour at a time.
                    I did not know it was the last good-by when I packed my bags and gun-cases
                        and left one frosty morning. I regret nothing, but am glad it all happened
                        just so. Her marriage to a clergyman in the Establishmenta duke's
                        second son in holy orders who enjoyed considerable reputation as a
                        cricketerfollowed quickly, and I have never seen her since. I was in love
                        with that girl for at least a month. It did me no harm, and I think she
                        liked it herself.
                    I next went down before the slang of an American girl with teasing eyes and
                        amazing skill at tennis, whom I met at Oxford when she was a student in Lady
                        Margaret.  Her name was Iris and she was
                        possessed by the spirit of Mischief. If you know aught of the English, you
                        know that the average peaches-and-cream English girl is not, to put it
                        squarely, exciting. Iris understood this perfectly and delighted in doing
                        things no girl had ever done before in that venerable town. She lived at
                        homeher family had taken a house out beyond Magdalen; and she went to and
                        from the classic halls of Lady Margaret in a dog-cart, sometimes with a
                        groom, sometimes without. When alone she dashed through the High at a gait
                        which caused sedate matrons to stare and sober-minded fellows of the
                        university to swear, and admiring undergraduates to chuckle with delight. I
                        had gone to Oxford to consult a certain book in the Bodleiana day's
                        business only; but it fell about that in the post-office, where I had gone
                        on an errand, I came upon Iris struggling for a cable-blank, and found one
                        for her. As she stood at the receiving counter, impatiently waiting to file
                        her message, she remarked, for the benefit, I believed, of a gaitered bishop
                        at her elbow: "How perfectly rotten this place is!"and
                        winked at me. She was seventeen, and I was old enough to know better, but we
                        had some talk, and the next day she bowed to me in front of St.
                        Mary's and, the day after,  picked me
                        up out near Keble and drove me all over town, and past Lady Margaret, and
                        dropped me quite boldly at the door of the Mitre. Shameful! It was; but at
                        the end of a week I knew all her family, including her father, who was bored
                        to death, and her mother, who had thought it a fine thing to move from
                        Zanesville, Ohio, to live in a noble old academic center like Oxfordthat was
                        what too much home-study and literary club had done for her.
                    Iris kept the cables hot with orders for clothes, caramels and shoes, while I
                        lingered and hung upon her lightest slang and encouraged her in the idea
                        that education in her case was a sinful waste of time; and I comforted her
                        father for the loss of his native buckwheat cakes and consoled her mother,
                        who found that seven of the perfect English servants of the story-books did
                        less than the three she had maintained at Zanesville. I lingered in Oxford
                        two months, and helped them get out of town when Iris was dropped from
                        college for telling the principal that the Zanesville High School had Lady
                        Margaret over the ropes for general educational efficiency, and that,
                        moreover, she would not go to the Established Church because the litany
                        bored her. Whereupontheir dependence on me having steadily increased  I got them out of Oxford and over to Dresden,
                        and Iris and I became engaged. Then I went to Ireland on a matter of
                        business, made an incendiary speech in Galway, smashed a couple of policemen
                        and landed in jail. Before my father, with, I fear, some reluctance, bailed
                        me out, Iris had eloped with a lieutenant in the German army and her family
                        had gone sadly back to Zanesville.
                    This is the truth, and the whole truth, and I plead guilty to every count of
                        the indictment. Thereafter my pulses cooled and I sought the peace of
                        jungles; and the eyes of woman charmed me no more. When I landed at
                        Annandale and opened my portfolio to write Russian Rivers
                        my last affair was half a dozen years behind me.
                    Sobered by these reflections, I left the terrace shortly after eleven and
                        walked through the strip of wood that lay between the house and the lake to
                        the Glenarm pier; and at once matters took a turn that put the love of woman
                        quite out of the reckoning.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    I MEET MR. REGINALD GILLESPIE
                    
                        
                            There was a man in our town,
                            And he was wondrous wise,
                            He jump'd into a bramble-bush,
                            And scratch'd out both his eyes;
                            But when he saw his eyes were out,
                            With all his might and main
                            He jump'd into another bush,
                            And scratch'd them in again.
                        
                        
                            Old Ballad.
                    
                    As I neared the boat-house I saw a dark figure sprawled on the veranda and my
                        Japanese boy spoke to me softly. The moon was at full and I drew up in the
                        shadow of the house and waited. Ijima had been with me for several years and
                        was a boy of unusual intelligence. He spoke both English and French
                        admirably, was deft of hand and wise of mind, and I was greatly attached to
                        him. His courage, fidelity and discretion I had tested more than once. He
                        lay quite still on the pier, gazing out upon the lake, and I knew that
                        something unusual had attracted his attention. He spoke to me in a moment,
                        but without turning his head.
                    
                    "A man has been rowing up and down the shore for an hour. When he
                        came in close here I asked him what he wanted and he rowed away without
                        answering. He is now off there by the school."
                    "Probably a summer boarder from across the lake."
                    "Hardly, sir. He came from the direction of the village and acts
                        queerly."
                    I flung myself down on the pier and crawled out to where Ijima lay. Every
                        pier on the lake had its distinctive lights; the Glenarm sea-mark wasand
                        remainsred, white and green. We lay by the post that bore the three
                        lanterns, and watched the slow movement of a rowboat along the margin of the
                        school grounds. The boat was about a thousand yards from us in a straight
                        line, though farther by the shore; but the moonlight threw the oarsman and
                        his craft into sharp relief against the overhanging bank. St.
                        Agatha's maintains a boathouse for the use of students, and the
                        pier lightsred, white and redlay beyond the boatman, and he seemed to be
                        drawing slowly toward them. The fussy little steamers that run the errands
                        of the cattagers had made their last rounds and sought their berths for the
                        night, and the lake lay still in the white bath of light.
                    "Drop one of the canoes into the water," I said; and  I watched the prowling boatman while Ijima
                        crept back to the boat-house. The canoe was launched silently and the boy
                        drove it out to me with a few light strokes. I took the paddle, and we crept
                        close along the shore toward the St. Agatha light, my eyes intent on the
                        boat, which was now drawing in to the school pier. The prowler was feeling
                        his way carefully, as though the region were unfamiliar; but he now landed
                        at the pier and tied his boat. I hung back in the shadows until he had
                        disappeared up the bank, then paddled to the pier, told Ijima to wait, and
                        set off through the wood-path toward St. Agatha's.
                    Where the wood gave way to the broad lawn that stretched up to the school
                        buildings I caught sight of my quarry. He was strolling along under the
                        beeches to the right of me, and I paused about a hundred feet behind him to
                        watch events. He was a young fellow, not above average height, but compactly
                        built, and stood with his hands thrust boyishly in his pockets, gazing about
                        with frank interest in his surroundings. He was bareheaded and coatless, and
                        his shirt-sleeves were rolled to the elbow. He walked slowly along the edge
                        of the wood, looking off toward the school buildings, and while his manner
                        was furtive there was, too, an air of 
                        unconcern about him and I heard him whistling softly to himself.
                    He now withdrew into the wood and started off with the apparent intention of
                        gaining a view of St. Agatha's from the front, and I followed. He
                        seemed harmless enough; he might be a curious pilgrim from the summer
                        resort; but I was just now the guardian of St. Agatha's and I
                        intended to learn the stranger's business before I had done with
                        him. He swung well around toward the driveway, threading the flower garden,
                        but hanging always close under the trees, and the mournful whistle would
                        have guided me had not the moon made his every movement perfectly clear. He
                        reached the driveway leading in from the Annandale road without having
                        disclosed any purpose other than that of viewing the vine-clad walls with a
                        tourist's idle interest. The situation had begun to bore me, when
                        the school gardener came running out of the shrubbery, and instantly the
                        young man took to his heels.
                    "Stop! Stop!" yelled the gardener.
                    The mysterious young man plunged into the wood and was off like the wind.
                    "After him, Andy; After him!" I yelled to the
                        Scotchman.
                    
                    I shouted my own name to reassure him and we both went thumping through the
                        beeches. The stranger would undoubtedly seek to get back to his boat, I
                        reasoned, but he was now headed for the outer wall, and as the wood was free
                        of underbrush he was sprinting away from us at a lively gait. Whoever the
                        young gentleman was, he had no intention of being caught; he darted in and
                        out among the trees with astounding lightness, and I saw in a moment that he
                        was slowly turning away to the right.
                    "Run for the gate!" I called to the gardener, who was about
                        twenty feet away from me, blowing hard. I prepared to gain on the turn if
                        the young fellow dashed for the lake; and he now led me a pretty chase
                        through the flower garden. He ran with head up and elbows close at his
                        sides, and his light boat shoes made scarcely any sound. He turned once and
                        looked back and, finding that I was alone, began amusing himself with feints
                        and dodges, for no other purpose, I fancied, than to perplex or wind me.
                        There was a little summer-house midway of the garden, and he led me round
                        this till my head swam. By this time I had grown pretty angry, for a
                        foot-race in a school garden struck me with disgust as a childish
                        enterprise, and I bent with new spirit and 
                        drove him away from his giddy circling about the summer-house and beyond the
                        only gate by which he could regain the wood and meadow that lay between the
                        garden and his boat. He turned his head from side to side uneasily,
                        slackening his pace to study the bounds of the garden, and I felt myself
                        gaining.
                    Ahead of us lay a white picket fence that set off the vegetable garden and
                        marked the lawful bounds of the school. There was no gate and I felt that
                        here the chase must end, and I rejoiced to find myself so near the runner
                        that I heard the quick, soft patter of his shoes on the walk. In a moment I
                        was quite sure that I should have him by the collar, and I had every
                        intention of dealing severely with him for the hard chase he had given
                        me.
                    But he kept on, the white line of fence clearly outlined beyond him; and then
                        when my hand was almost upon him he rose at the fence, as though sprung from
                        the earth itself, and hung a moment sheer above the sharp line of the fence
                        pickets, his whole figure held almost horizontal, in the fashion of trained
                        high-jumpers, for what seemed an infinite time, as though by some witchery
                        of the moonlight.
                    I plunged into the fence with a force that knocked  the wind out of me and as I clung panting to the pickets the
                        runner dropped with a crash into the midst of a glass vegetable frame on the
                        farther side. He turned his head, grinned at me sheepishly through the
                        pickets, and gave a kick that set the glass to tinkling. Then he held up his
                        hands in sign of surrender and I saw that they were cut and bleeding. We
                        were both badly blown, and while we regained our wind we stared at each
                        other. He was the first to speak.
                    "Kicked, bit or stung!" he muttered dolefully;
                        "that saddest of all words, 'stung!'
                        It's as clear as moonlight that I'm badly mussed, not to
                        say cut."
                    "May I trouble you not to kick out any more of that glass? The
                        gardener will be here in a minute and fish you out."
                    "Lawsy, what is it? An aquarium, that you fish for me?"
                    He chuckled softly, but sat perfectly quiet, finding, it seemed, a certain
                        humor in his situation. The gardener came running up and swore in broad
                        Scots at the destruction of the frame. We got over the fence and released
                        our captive, who talked to himself in doleful undertones as we hauled him to
                        his feet amid a renewed clink of glass.
                    
                    "Gently, gentlemen; behold the night-blooming cereus! Not all the
                        court-plaster in the universe can glue me together again." He gazed
                        ruefully at his slashed arms, and rubbed his legs. "The next time I
                        seek the garden at dewy eve I'll wear my tin suit."
                    "There won't be any next time for you. What did you run
                        for?"
                    "Trying to lower my recordit's a mania with me. And as one
                        good question deserves another, may I ask why you didn't tell me
                        there was a glass-works beyond that fence? It wasn't sportsmanlike
                        to hide a murderous hazard like that. But I cleared those pickets with a
                        yard to spare, and broke my record."
                    "You broke about seven yards of glass," I replied.
                        "It may sober you to know that you are under arrest. The watchman
                        here has a constable's license."
                    "He also has hair that suggests the common garden or boiled carrot.
                        The tint is not to my liking; yet it is not for me to be captious where the
                        Lord has hardened His heart."
                    "What is your name?" I demanded.
                    "Gillespie. R. Gillespie. The 'R' will indicate to
                        you the depth of my humility: I make it a life work to hide the fact that I
                        was baptized Reginald."
                    
                    "I've been expecting you, Mr. Gillespie, and now I want you
                        to come over to my house and give an account of yourself. I will take charge
                        of this man, Andy. I promise that he shan't set foot here again.
                        And, Andy, you need mention this affair to no one."
                    "Very good, sir."
                    He touched his hat respectfully.
                    "I have business with this person. Say nothing to the ladies at St.
                        Agatha's about him."
                    He saluted and departed; and with Gillespie walking beside me I started for
                        the boat-landing.
                    He had wrapped a handkerchief about one arm and I gave him my own for the
                        other. His right arm was bleeding freely below the elbow and I tied it up
                        for him.
                    "That jump deserved better luck," I volunteered, as he
                        accepted my aid in silence.
                    "I'm proud to have you like it. Will you kindly tell me who
                        the devil you are?"
                    "My name is Donovan."
                    "I don't wholly care for it," he observed
                        mournfully. "Think it over and see if you can't do better.
                        I'm not sure that I'm going to grow fond of you.
                        What's your business with me, anyhow?"
                    
                    "My business, Mr. Gillespie, is to see that you leave this lake by
                        the first and fastest train."
                    "Is it possible?" he drawled mockingly.
                    "More than that," I replied in his own key; "it is
                        decidedly probable."
                    "Meanwhile, it would be diverting to know where you're
                        taking me. I thought the other chap was the constable."
                    "I'm taking you to the house of a friend where I'm
                        visiting. I'm going to row you in your boat. It's only a
                        short distance; and when we get there I shall have something to say to
                        you."
                    He made no reply, but got into the boat without ado. He found a light flannel
                        coat and I flung it over his shoulders and pulled for Glenarm pier, telling
                        the Japanese boy to follow with the canoe. I turned over in my mind the few
                        items of information that I had gained from Miss Pat and her niece touching
                        the young man who was now my prisoner, and found that I knew little enough
                        about him. He was the unwelcome and annoying suitor of Miss Helen Holbrook,
                        and I had caught him prowling about St. Agatha's in a manner that
                        was indefensible.
                    He sat huddled in the stern, nursing his swathed arms  on his knees and whistling dolefully. The lake was a broad pool
                        of silver. Save for the soft splash of Ijima's paddle behind me and
                        the slight wash of water on the near shore, silence possessed the world.
                        Gillespie looked about with some curiosity, but said nothing, and when I
                        drove the boat to the Glenarm landing he crawled out and followed me through
                        the wood without a word.
                    I flashed on the lights in the library and after a short inspection of his
                        wounds we went to my room and found sponges, plasters and ointments in the
                        family medicine chest and cared for his injuries.
                    "There's no honor in tumbling into a greenhouse, but such
                        is R. Gillespie's luck. My shins look like scarlet fever, and
                        without sound legs a man's better dead."
                    "Your legs seem to have got you into trouble; don't mourn
                        the loss of them!" And I twisted a bandage under his left knee-cap
                        where the glass had cut savagely.
                    "It's my poor wits, if we must fix the blame. It's
                        an awful thing, sir, to be born with weak intellectuals. As man's
                        legs carry him on orders from his head, there lies the seat of the
                        difficulty. A weak mind, obedient legs, and there you go, plump into the
                        bosom of a blooming asparagus bed, and the enemy lays violent hands on you.
                        If you put any more of that sting-y pudding on that cut  I shall undoubtedly hit you, Mr. Donovan. Ah, thank you, thank
                        you so much!"
                    As I finished with the vaseline he lay back on the couch and sighed deeply
                        and I rose and sent Ijima away with the basin and towels.
                    "Will you drink? There are twelve kinds of whisky"
                    "My dear Mr. Donovan, the thought of strong drink saddens me. Such
                        poor wits as mine are not helped by alcoholic stimulants. I was drunk
                        oncebeautifully, marvelously, nobly drunk, so that antiquity came up to date
                        with the thud of a motor-car hitting an orphan asylum; and I saw Julius Csar
                        driving a chariot up Fifth Avenue and Cromwell poised on one foot on the
                        shorter spire of St. Patrick's Cathedral. Are you aware, my dear
                        sir, that one of those spires is shorter than the other?"
                    "I certainly am not," I replied bluntly, wondering what
                        species of madman I had on my hands.
                    "It's a fact, confided to me by a prominent engineer of New
                        York, who has studied those spires daily since they were put up. He told me
                        that when he had surrounded five high-balls the north spire was higher; but
                        that the sixth tumblerful always raised the south spire  about eleven feet above it. Now, wouldn't that doddle
                        you?"
                    "It would, Mr. Gillespie; but may I ask you to cut out this
                        rot"
                    "My dear Mr. Donovan, it's indelicate of you to speak of
                        cutting anythingand me with my legs. But I'm at your service. You
                        have tended my grievous wounds like a gentleman and now do you wish me to
                        unfold my past, present and future?"
                    "I want you to get out of this and be quick about it. Your biography
                        doesn't amuse me; I caught you prowling disgracefully about St.
                        Agatha's. Two ladies are domiciled there who came here to escape
                        your annoying attentions. Those ladies were put in my charge by an old
                        friend, and I don't propose to stand any nonsense from you, Mr.
                        Gillespie. You seem to be at least half sane"
                    Reginald Gillespie raised himself on the couch and grinned joyously.
                    "Thank youthank you for that word! That's just twice as
                        high as anybody ever rated me before."
                    "I was trying to be generous," I said.
                        "There's a point at which I begin to be bored, and when
                        that's reached I'm likely to grow quarrelsome. Are there
                        any  moments of the day or night when you are
                        less a fool than others?"
                    "Well, Donovan, I've often speculated about that, and my
                        conclusion is that my mind is at its best when I'm asleep and
                        enjoying a nightmare. I find the Welsh rabbit most stimulating to my thought
                        voltage. Then I am, you may say, detached from myself; another mind not my
                        own is building towers and palaces, and spiders as large as the far-famed
                        though extinct ichthyosaurus are waltzing on the moon. Then, I have
                        sometimes thought, my intellectual parts are most intelligently
                        employed."
                    "I may well believe you," I declared with asperity.
                        "Now I hope I can pound it into you in some way that your presence
                        in this neighborhood is offensiveto mepersonally."
                    He stared at the ceiling, silent, imperturbable.
                    "And I'm going to give you safe conduct through the linesor
                        if necessary I'll buy your ticket and start you for New York. And
                        if there's an atom of honor in you, you'll go peaceably
                        and not publish the fact that you know the whereabouts of these
                        ladies."
                    He reflected gravely for a moment.
                    "I think," he said, "that on the whole
                        that's a fair  proposition. But you
                        seem to have the impression that I wish to annoy these ladies."
                    "You don't for a moment imagine that you are likely to
                        entertain them, do you? You haven't got the idea that you are
                        necessary to their happiness, have you?"
                    He raised himself on his elbow with some difficulty; flinched as he tried to
                        make himself comfortable and began:
                    "The trouble with Miss Pat is"
                    "There is no trouble with Miss Pat," I snapped.
                    "The trouble between Miss Pat and me is the same old trouble of the
                        buttons," he remarked dolorously.
                    "Buttons, you idiot?"
                    "Quite so. Buttons, just plain every-day buttons; buttons for
                        buttoning purposes. Now I shall be grateful to you if you will refrain from
                        saying
                    "Button, button,
                    Who's got the button?'"
                    The fellow was undoubtedly mad. I looked about for a weapon; but he went on
                        gravely.
                    "What does the name Gillespie mean? Of what is it the sign and
                        symbol wherever man hides his nakedness? Button, button, who'll buy
                        my buttons? It can't be possible  that
                        you never heard of the Gillespie buttons? Where have you lived, my dear
                        sir?"
                    "Will you please stop talking rot and explain what you want
                        here?" I demanded with growing heat.
                    "That, my dear sir, is exactly what I'm doing. I'm
                        a suitor for the hand of Miss Patricia's niece. Miss Patricia
                        scorns me; she says I'm a mere child of the Philistine rich and
                        declines an alliance without thanks, if you must know the truth. And
                        it's all on account of the fact, shameful enough I admit, that my
                        father died and left me a large and prosperous button factory."
                    "Why don't you give the infernal thing awaysell it out to a
                        trust"
                    "Ah! ah!"and he raised himself again and pointed a bandaged
                        hand at me. "I see that you are a man of penetration! You have a
                        keen notion of business! You anticipate me! I did sell the infernal thing to
                        a trust, but there was no shaking it! They made me president of the
                        combination, and I control more buttons than any other living man! My dear
                        sir, I dictate the button prices of the world. I can tell you to a nicety
                        how many buttons are swallowed annually by the babies of the universe. But I
                        hope, sir, that I use my power wisely and without oppressing the
                        people."
                    
                    Gillespie lay on his back, wrapped in my dressinggown, his knees raised, his
                        bandaged arms folded across his chest. Since bringing him into the house I
                        had studied him carefully and, I must confess, with increasing
                        mystification. He was splendidly put up, the best-muscled man I had ever
                        seen who was not a professional athlete. His forearms and clean-shaven face
                        were brown from prolonged tanning by the sun, but otherwise his skin was the
                        pink and white of a healthy baby. His short light hair was combed smoothly
                        away from a broad forehead; his blue eyes were perfectly steadythey even
                        invited and held scrutiny; when he was not speaking he closed his lips
                        tightly. He appeared in nowise annoyed by his predicament; the house itself
                        seemed to have no interest for him, and he accepted my ministrations in
                        murmurs of well-bred gratitude.
                    I half believed the fellow to be amusing himself at my expense; but he met my
                        eyes calmly. If I had not caught a lunatic I had certainly captured an odd
                        specimen of humanity. He was the picture of wholesome living and sound
                        health; but he talked like a fool. The idea of a young woman like Helen
                        Holbrook giving two thoughts to a silly youngster like this was
                        preposterous, and my heart hardened against him.
                    
                    "You are flippant, Mr. Gillespie, and my errand with you is serious.
                        There are places in this house where I could lock you up and you would never
                        see your button factory again. You seem to have had some
                        education"
                    "The word does me great honor, Donovan. They chucked me from Yale in
                        my junior year. Why, you may ask? Well, it happened this way: You know
                        Rooney, the Bellefontaine Cyclone? He struck New Haven with a vaudeville
                        outfit, giving boxing exhibitions, poking the bag and that sort of fake. At
                        every town they invited the local sports to dig up their brightest amateur
                        middle-weight and put him against the Cyclone for five rounds. I brushed my
                        hair the wrong way for a disguise and went against him."
                    "And got smashed for your trouble, I hope," I
                        interrupted.
                    "No. The boys in the gallery cheered so that they fussed him, and he
                        thought I was fruit. We shook hands, and he turned his head to snarl at the
                        applause, and, seeing an opening, I smashed him a hot clip in the chin, and
                        he tumbled backward and broke the ring rope. I vaulted the orchestra and
                        bolted, and when the boys finally found me I was over near Waterbury under a
                        barn. Eli wouldn't stand for it, and back I went to the  button factory; and here I am, sir, by the
                        grace of God, an ignorant man."
                    He lay blinking as though saddened by his recollections, and I turned away
                        and paced the floor. When I glanced at him again he was still staring
                        soberly at the wall.
                    "How did you find your way here, Gillespie?" I
                        demanded.
                    "I suppose I ought to explain that," he replied. I waited
                        while he reflected for a moment. He seemed to be quite serious, and his
                        brows wrinkled as he pondered.
                    "I guessed it about half; and for the rest, I followed the
                        heaven-kissing stack of trunks."
                    He glanced at me quickly, as though anxious to see how I received his
                        words.
                    "Have you seen anything of Henry Holbrook in your travels? Be
                        careful now; I want the truth."
                    "I certainly have not. I hope you don't think"
                        Gillespie hesitated.
                    "It's not a matter for thinking or guessing; I've
                        got to know."
                    "On my honor I have not seen him, and I have no idea where he
                        is."
                    I had thrown myself into a chair beside the couch and  lighted my pipe. My captive troubled me. It seemed odd that he
                        had found the abiding-place of the two women; and if he had succeeded so
                        quickly, why might not Henry Holbrook have equal luck?
                    "You probably know this troublesome brother well," I
                        ventured.
                    "Yes; as well as a man of my age can know an older man. My
                        father's place at Stamford adjoined the Holbrook estate. Henry and
                        Arthur Holbrook married sisters; both women died long ago, I believe; but
                        the brothers had a business row and went to smash. Arthur embezzled, forged,
                        and so on, and took to the altitudinous timber, and Henry has been busy ever
                        since trying to pluck his sister. He's wild on the subject of his
                        wrongsruined by his own brother, deprived of his inheritance by his sister
                        and abandoned by his only child. There wasn't much to Arthur
                        Holbrook; Henry was the genius, but after the bank went to the bad he sought
                        the consolations of rum. He and Henry married the Hartridge twins who were
                        the reigning Baltimore belles in the early eightiesso runneth the chronicle.
                        But I gossip, my dear sir; I gossip, which is against my principles. Even
                        the humble button king of Strawberry Hill must draw the line."
                    
                    When Ijima brought in a plate of sandwiches he took one gingerly in his
                        swathed hand, regarded it with cool inquiry, and as he munched it, remarked
                        upon sandwiches in general as though they were botanical specimens that were
                        usually discussed and analyzed in a scientific spirit.
                    "The sandwich," he began, "not unhappily expresses
                        one of the saddest traits of our American life. I need hardly refer to our
                        deplorable national habit of hiding our shame under a blithe and misleading
                        exterior. Now this article, provided by your generous hospitality for a poor
                        prisoner of war, contains a bit of the breast of some fowl, presumably
                        chickenwe will concede that it is chickentaken from rather too near the bone
                        to be wholly palatable. Chicken sandwiches in some parts of the world are
                        rather coarsely marked, for purposes of identification, with pin-feathers.
                        You may covet no nobler fame than that of creator of the Flying Sandwich of
                        Annandale. Yet the feathered sandwich, though more picturesque, points
                        rather too directly to the strutting lords of the barn-yard. A sandwich that
                        is decorated like a fall bonnet, that suggests, we will say, the
                        milliner's windowor the plumed knights of sounding
                        war"
                    
                    With a little sigh, a slow relaxation of muscles, Mr. Gillespie slept. I
                        locked the doors, put out the lights, and tumbled into my own bed as the
                        chapel clock chimed two.
                    In the disturbed affairs of the night the blinds had not been drawn, and I
                        woke at six to find the room flooded with light and my prisoner gone. The
                        doors were locked as I had left them. Mr. Gillespie had departed by the
                        window, dropping from a little balcony to the terrace beneath. I rang for
                        Ijima and sent him to the pier; and before I had finished shaving, the boy
                        was back, and reported Gillespie's boat still at the pier, but one
                        of the canoes missing. It was clear that in the sorry plight of his arms
                        Gillespie had preferred paddling to rowing. Beneath my watch on the
                        writingtable I found a sheet of note-paper on which was scrawled: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        DEAR OLD MAN
                                    
                                    I am having one of those nightmares I mentioned in our
                                        delightful conversation. I feel that I am about to walk in
                                        my sleep. As my flannels are a trifle bluggy, pardon loss of
                                        your dressing-gown. Yours,
                                    
                                        R. G.
                                    
                                    P. S. I am willing to pay for the glass and
                                        medical attendance; but I want a rebate for that third
                                        sandwich. It really tickled too harshly as it went down.
                                        Very likely this accounts for my somnambulism. G.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    When I had dressed and had my coffee I locked my old portfolio and tossed it
                        into the bottom of my trunk. Something told me that for a while, at least, I
                        should have other occupation than contributing to the literature of Russian
                        geography.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    I EXPLORE TIPPECANOE CREEK
                    
                        
                            The woodland silence, one time stirred
                            By the soft pathos of some passing bird,
                            Is not the same it was before.
                            The spot where once, unseen, a flower
                            Has held its fragile chalice to the shower,
                            Is different for evermore.
                            Unheard, unseen
                            A spell has been!
                        
                        
                            Thomas Bailey Aldrich.
                        
                    
                    My first care was to find the gardener of St. Agatha's and renew his
                        pledge of silence of the night before; and then I sought the ladies, to make
                        sure that they had not been disturbed by my collision with Gillespie. Miss
                        Pat and Helen were in Sister Theresa's pretty sitting-room, through
                        whose windows the morning wind blew fresh and cool. Miss Pat was sewingher
                        dear hands, I found, were always busywhile Helen read to her.
                    "This is a day for the open! You must certainly venture
                        forth!" I began cheerily. "You see, Father Stoddard chose
                        well; this is the most peaceful place on the 
                        map. Let us begin with a drive at six, when the sun is low; or maybe you
                        would prefer a little run in the launch."
                    They exchanged glances.
                    "I think it would be all right, Aunt Pat," said Helen.
                    "Perhaps we should wait another day. We must take no chances; the
                        relief of being free is too blessed to throw away. I really slept through
                        the nightI can't tell you what a boon that is!"
                    "Why, Sister Margaret had to call us both at eight!"
                        exclaimed Helen. "That is almost too wonderful for
                        belief." She sat in a low, deep, wicker chair, with her arms folded
                        upon her book. She wore a short blue skirt and white waist, with a red scarf
                        knotted at her throat and a ribbon of like color in her hair.
                    "Oh, the nights here are tranquillity itself! Now, as to the
                        drive"
                    "Let us wait another day, Mr. Donovan. I feel that we must make
                        assurance doubly sure," said Miss Pat; and this, of course, was
                        final.
                    It was clear that the capture of Gillespie had not disturbed the slumber of
                        St. Agatha's. My conscience pricked me a trifle at leaving them so
                        ignorantly contented; but Gillespie's appearance was hardly a
                        menace,  and though I had pledged myself to
                        warn Helen Holbrook at the first sign of trouble, I determined to deal with
                        him on my own account. He was only an infatuated fool, and I was capable, I
                        hoped, of disposing of his case without taking any one into my confidence.
                        But first it was my urgent business to find him.
                    I got out the launch and crossed the lake to the summer colony and began my
                        search by asking for Gillespie at the casino, but found that his name was
                        unknown. I lounged about until lunch-time, visited the golf course that lay
                        on a bit of upland beyond the cottages and watched the players until
                        satisfied that Gillespie was not among them, then I went home for
                        luncheon.
                    A man with bandaged arms, and clad in a dressinggown, can not go far without
                        attracting attention; and I was not in the least discouraged by my fruitless
                        search. I have spent a considerable part of my life in the engaging
                        occupation of looking for men who were hard to find, and as I smoked my
                        cigar on the shady terrace and waited for Ijima to replenish the
                        launch's tank, I felt confident that before night I should have an
                        understanding with Gillespie if he were still in the neighborhood of
                        Annandale.
                    The midday was warm, but I cooled my eyes on the  deep shadows of the wood, through which at intervals I saw white sails
                        flash on the lake. All bird-song was hushed, but a woodpecker on a dead
                        sycamore hammered away for dear life. The bobbing of his red head must have
                        exercised some hypnotic spell, for I slept a few minutes, and dreamed that
                        the woodpecker had bored a hole in my forehead. When I roused it was with a
                        start that sent my pipe clattering to the stone terrace floor. A man who has
                        ever camped or hunted or been huntedand I have known all three
                        experiencesalways scrutinizes the horizons when he wakes, and I found myself
                        staring into the wood. As my eyes sought remembered landmarks here and
                        there, I saw a man dressed as a common sailor skulking toward the boat-house
                        several hundred yards away. He was evidently following the school wall to
                        escape observation, and I rose and stepped closer to the balustrade to watch
                        his movements. In a moment he came out into a little open space wherein
                        stood a stone tower where water was stored for the house, and he paused here
                        and gazed about him curiously. I picked up a field-glass from a little table
                        near by and caught sight of a swarthy foreign face under a soft felt hat. He
                        passed the tower and walked on toward the lake, and I dropped over the
                        balustrade and followed him.
                    
                    The Japanese boy was still at work on the launch, and, hearing a step on the
                        pier planking, he glanced up, then rose and asked the stranger his
                        business.
                    The man shook his head.
                    "If you have business it must be at the house; the road is in the
                        other direction," and Ijima pointed to the wood, but the stranger
                        remained stubbornly on the edge of the pier. I now stepped out of the wood
                        and walked down to the pier.
                    "What do you want here?" I demanded sharply.
                    The man touched his hat, smiled, and shook his head. The broad hand he lifted
                        in salute was that of a laborer, and its brown back was tattooed. He
                        belonged, I judged, to one of the dark Mediterranean races, and I tried him
                        in Italian.
                    "These are private grounds; you will do well to leave here very
                        quickly," I said.
                    I saw his eyes light as I spoke the words slowly and distinctly, but he
                        waited until I had finished, then shook his head.
                    I was sure he had understood, but as I addressed him again, ordering him from
                        the premises, he continued to shake his head and grin foolishly. Then I
                        pointed toward the road.
                    
                    "Go; and it will be best for you not to come here again!" I
                        said, and, after saluting, he walked slowly away into the wood, with a sort
                        of dogged insolence in his slightly swaying gait. At a nod from me Ijima
                        stole after him while I waited, and in a few minutes the boy came back and
                        reported that the man had passed the house and left the grounds by the
                        carriage entrance, turning toward Annandale.
                    With my mind on Gillespie I put off in the launch, determined to study the
                        lake geography. A mile from the pier I looked back and saw, rising above the
                        green wood, the gray lines of Glenarm house; and farther west the miniature
                        tower of the little chapel of St. Agatha's thrust itself through
                        the trees. To the east lay Annandale village; to the northwest the summer
                        colony of Port Annandale. I swung the boat toward the unknown north of this
                        pretty lake, watching meanwhile its social marineif I may use such a
                        termwith new interest. Several smart sail-boats lounged before the windmore
                        ambitious craft than I imagined these waters boasted; the lake
                        "tramps" on their ceaseless errands to and from the
                        village whistled noisily; we passed a boy and girl in a canoea thing so
                        pretty and graceful and so clean-cut in its workmanship that I turned to  look after it. The girl was lazily plying the
                        paddle; the boy, supported by a wealth of gay cushions, was thrumming a
                        guitar. They glared at me resentfully as their cockle-shell wobbled in the
                        wash of the launch.
                    "That's a better canoe than we own, Ijima. I should like to
                        pick up one as good."
                    "There are others like it on the lake. Hartridge is the maker. His
                        shop is over there somewhere," and Ijima waved his hand toward the
                        north. "A boy told me at the Annandale dock that those canoes are
                        famous all over this country."
                    "Then we must certainly have one. We could have used one of those
                        things in Russia."
                    The shores grew narrower and more irregular as we proceeded, and we saw only
                        at rare intervals any signs of life. A heavy forest lay at either hand,
                        broken now and then by rough meadows. Just beyond a sharp curve a new vista
                        opened before us, and I was astonished to see a small wooded island ahead of
                        us. Beyond it lay the second lake, linked to the main body of Annandale by a
                        narrow strait.
                    "I did not know there was anything so good on the lake, Ijima. I
                        wonder what they call this?"
                    He reached into a locker and drew out a tin tube.
                    
                    "This is a map, sir. I think they call this Battle
                        Orchard."
                    "That's not bad, either. I don't see the orchard
                        or the battle, but no doubt they have both been here." I was more
                        and more pleased.
                    I gave him the wheel and took the map, which proved to be a careful chart of
                        the lake, made, I judged, by my friend Glenarm for his own amusement. We
                        passed slowly around the island, which was not more than twenty acres in
                        extent, with an abrupt bank on the east and a low pebbly shore on the west,
                        and a body of heavy timber rising darkly in the center. The shore of the
                        mainland sloped upward here in the tender green of young corn. I have, I
                        hope, a soul for landscape, and the soft bubble of water, the lush reeds in
                        the shallows, the rapidly moving panorama of field and forest, the glimpses
                        of wild flowers, and the arched blue above, were restful to mind and heart.
                        It seemed shameful that the whole world was not afloat; then, as I reflected
                        that another boat in these tranquil waters would be an impertinence that I
                        should resent, I was aware that I had been thinking of Helen Holbrook all
                        the while; and the thought of this irritated me so that I criticized Ijima
                        most unjustly for running the launch close to a boulder  that rose like a miniature Gibraltar near the shadowy shore we
                        were skirting.
                    We gained the ultimate line of the lower lake, and followed the shore in
                        search of its outlet, pleasingly set down on the map as Tippecanoe Creek,
                        which ran off and joined somewhere a river of like name.
                    "We'll cruise here a bit and see if we can find the
                        creek," I said, filling my pipe.
                    Tippecanoe! Its etymology is not in books, but goes back to the first star
                        that ever saw itself in running water; its cadence is that of a boat gliding
                        over ripples; its syllables flow as liquidly as a woodland spring lingering
                        in delight over shining pebbles. The canoe alone, of all things fashioned to
                        carry man, has a souland it is a soul at once obedient and perverse. And now
                        that I had discovered the name Tippecanoe, it seemed to murmur itself from
                        the little waves we sent singing into the reeds. My delight in it was so
                        great, it rang in my head so insistently, that I should have missed the
                        creek with the golden name if Ijima had not called my attention to its
                        gathering current, that now drew us, like a tide. The lake's waters
                        ran away, like a truant child, through a woody cleft, and in a moment we
                        were as clean quit of the lake as though it did not exist.  After a few rods the creek began to twist and
                        turn as though with the intention of making the voyager earn his way. In the
                        narrow channel the beat of our engine rang from the shores rebukingly, and
                        soon, as a punishment for disturbing the peace of the little stream, we
                        grounded on a sand-bar.
                    "This seems to be the head of navigation, Ijima. I believe this
                        creek was made for canoes, not battleships."
                    Between us we got the launch off, and I landed on a convenient log and
                        crawled up the bank to observe the country. I followed a stake-and-rider
                        fence half hidden in vines of various sorts, and tramped along the bank,
                        with the creek still singing its tortuous way below at my right hand. It was
                        late, and long shadows now fell across the world; but every new turn in the
                        creek tempted me, and the sharp scratch of brambles did not deter me from
                        going on. Soon the rail fence gave way to barbed wire; the path broadened
                        and the underbrush was neatly cut away. Within lay a small vegetable garden,
                        carefully tilled; and farther on I saw a dark green cottage almost shut in
                        by beeches. The path dipped sharply down and away from the cottage, and a
                        moment later I had lost sight of it; but below, at the edge of the  creek, stood a long house-boat with an
                        extended platform or deck on the waterside.
                    I can still feel, as I recall the day and hour, the utter peace of the scene
                        when first I came upon that secluded spot: the melodious flow of the creek
                        beneath; the flutter of homing wings; even the hum of insects in the sweet,
                        thymy air. Then a step farther and I came to a gate which opened on a flight
                        of steps that led to the house beneath; and through the intervening tangle I
                        saw a man sprawled at ease in a steamer chair on the deck, his arms under
                        his head. As I watched him he sighed and turned restlessly, and I caught a
                        glimpse of close-trimmed beard and short, thin, slightly gray hair.
                    The place was clearly the summer home of a city man in search of quiet, and I
                        was turning away, when suddenly a woman's voice rang out clearly
                        from the bank.
                    "Hello the house-boat!"
                    "Yes; I'm here!" answered the man below.
                    "Come on, father; I've been looking for you
                        everywhere," called the voice again.
                    "Oh, it's too bad you've been waiting,"
                        he answered.
                    "Of course I've been waiting!" she flung back, and
                        he jumped up and ran toward her. Then down the steps flashed Helen Holbrook
                        in white. She paused at the  gate an instant
                        before continuing her descent to the creek, bending her head as she sought
                        the remaining steps. Her dark hair and clear profile trembled a moment in
                        the summer dusk; then she ran past me and disappeared below.
                    "Daddy, you dear old fraud, I thought you were coming to meet me on
                        the ridge!"
                    I turned and groped my way along the darkening path. My heart was thumping
                        wildly and my forehead was wet with perspiration.
                    Ijima stood on the bank lighting his lantern, and I flung myself into the
                        launch and bade him run for home.
                    We were soon crossing the lake. I lay back on the cushions and gazed up at
                        the bright roof of stars. Before I reached Glenarm the shock of finding
                        Helen Holbrook in friendly communication with her father had passed, and I
                        sat down to dinner at nine o'clock with a sound appetite.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    A FIGHT ON A HOUSE-BOAT
                    
                        The best composition and temperature is, to have openness in fame and
                            opinion, secrecy in habit, dissimulation in seasonable use, and a power
                            to feign, if there be no remedy.
                        
                            Francis Bacon.
                        
                    
                    At ten o'clock I called for a horse and rode out into the night,
                        turning into the country with the intention of following the lake-road to
                        the region I had explored in the launch a few hours before. All was dark at
                        St. Agatha's as I passed. No doubt Helen Holbrook had returned in
                        due course from her visit to her father and, after accounting plausibly to
                        her aunt for her absence, was sleeping the sleep of the just. Now that I
                        thought of the matter in all its bearings, I accused myself for not having
                        gone directly to St. Agatha's from the lonely house on Tippecanoe
                        Creek and waited for her there, demanding an explanation of her perfidy. She
                        was treating Miss Pat infamously: that was plain; and yet in my heart I was
                        excusing and defending her. A family  row about
                        money was ugly at best; and an unfortunateeven criminalfather may still have
                        some claim on his child.
                    Then, as against such reasoning, the vision of Miss Pat rose before meand I
                        felt whatever chivalry there is in me arouse with a rattle of spears. Paul
                        Stoddard, in committing that dear old gentlewoman to my care, had not asked
                        me to fall in love with her niece; so, impatient to be thus swayed between
                        two inclinations, I chirruped to the horse and galloped swiftly over the
                        silent white road.
                    I had learned from the Glenarm stable-boys that it was several miles overland
                        to the Tippecanoe. A Sabbath quiet lay upon the world, and I seemed to be
                        the only person abroad. I rode at a sharp pace through the cool air, rushing
                        by heavy woodlands and broad fields, with an occasional farm-house rising
                        somberly in the moonlight. The road turned gradually, following the line of
                        the lake which now flashed out and then was lost again behind the forest.
                        There is nothing like a gallop to shake the nonsense out of a man, and my
                        spirits rose as the miles sped by. The village of Tippecanoe lay off
                        somewhere in this direction, as guide-posts several times gave warning; and
                        my study of the map  on the launch had given me
                        a good idea of the whole region. What I sought was the front entrance of the
                        green cottage above the house-boat by the creek, and when, far beyond Port
                        Annandale, the road turned abruptly away from the lake, I took my bearings
                        and dismounted and tied my horse in a strip of unfenced woodland.
                    The whole region was very lonely, and now that the beat of hoofs no longer
                        rang in my ears the quiet was oppressive. I struck through the wood and
                        found the ceek, and the path beside it. The little stream
                        was still murmuring its own name musically, with perhaps a softer note in
                        deference to the night; and following the path carefully I came in a few
                        minutes to the steps that linked the cottage with the house-boat at the
                        creek's edge. It was just there that I had seen Helen Holbrook, and
                        I stood quite still recalling this, and making sure that she had come down
                        those steps in that quiet out-of-the-way corner of the world, to keep tryst
                        with her father. The story-and-a-half cottage was covered with vines and
                        close-wrapped in shrubbery. I followed a garden walk that wound among bits
                        of lawn and flower-beds until I came to a tall cedar hedge that cut the
                        place off from the road. A semicircle of taller pines  within shut the cottage off completely from the highway. I
                        crawled through the cedars and walked along slowly to the gate, near which a
                        post supported a signboard. I struck a match and read:
                    RED GATE
                         R. Hartridge, Canoe-Maker, Tippecanoe, Indiana.
                    This, then, was the home of the canoe-maker mentioned by Ijima. I found his
                        name repeated on the rural delivery mail-box affixed to the sign-post. Henry
                        Holbrook was probably a boarder at the houseit required no great deductive
                        powers to fathom that. I stole back through the hedge and down to the
                        house-boat. The moon was coming up over the eastern wood, and the stars were
                        beautifully clear. I walked the length of the platform, which was provided
                        with a railing on the waterside, with growing curiosity. Several canoes,
                        carefully covered with tarpaulins, lay about the deck, and chairs were drawn
                        up close to the long, low house in shipshape fashion. If this house-boat was
                        the canoe-maker's shop he had chosen a secluded and picturesque
                        spot for it.
                    As I leaned against the rail studying the lines of the  house, I heard suddenly the creak of an oar-lock in the stream
                        behind, and then low voices talking. The deep night silence was so profound
                        that any sound was doubly emphasized, and I peered out upon the water, at
                        once alert and interested. I saw a dark shadow in the creek as the boat drew
                        nearer, and heard words spoken sharply as though in command. I drew back
                        against the house and waited. Possibly the canoe-maker had been abroad, or
                        more likely Henry Holbrook had gone forth upon some mischief, and my mind
                        flew at once to the two women at St. Agatha's, one of whom at least
                        was still under my protection. The boat approached furtively, and I heard
                        now very distinctly words spoken in Italian:
                    "Have a care; climb up with the rope and I'll
                        follow."
                    Then the boat touched the platform lightly and a second later a man climbed
                        nimbly up the side. His companion followed, and they tied their boat to the
                        railing. They paused now to reconnoiterso close to me that I could have
                        touched them with my handsand engaged in a colloquy. The taller man gave
                        directions, the other replying in monosyllables to show that he
                        understood.
                    "Go to the side porch of the cottage, and knock. When the man comes
                        to the door tell him that you are  the
                        chauffeur from an automobile that has broken down in the road, and that you
                        want help for a woman who has been hurt."
                    "Yes, sir."
                    "Thenyou know the rest."
                    "The knifeit shall be done."
                    I have made it the rule of my life, against much painful experience and the
                        admonitions of many philosophers, to act first and reason afterwards. And
                        here it was a case of two to one. The men began stealing across the deck
                        toward the steps that led up to the cottage, and with rather more zeal than
                        judgment I took a step after them, and clumsily kicked over a chair that
                        fell clattering wildly. Both men leaped toward the rail at the sound, and I
                        flattened myself against the house to await developments. The silence was
                        again complete.
                    "A chair blew over," remarked one of the voices.
                    "There is no wind," replied the other, the one I recognized
                        as belonging to the leader.
                    "See what you can findand have a care!"
                    The speaker went to the rail and began fumbling with the rope. The other, I
                        realized, was slipping quite noiselessly along the smooth planking toward
                        me, his bent body faintly silhouetted in the moonlight. I knew  that I could hardly be distinguishable from
                        the long line of the house, and I had the additional advantage of knowing
                        their strength, while I was still an unknown quantity to them. The men would
                        assume that I was either Hartridge, the boat-maker, or Henry Holbrook, one
                        of whom they had come to kill, and there is, as every one knows, little
                        honor in being the victim of mistaken identity. I heard the man's
                        hand scratching along the wall as he advanced cautiously; there was no doubt
                        but that he would discover me in another moment; so I resolved to take the
                        initiative and give battle.
                    My finger-tips touched the back of one of the folded camp-chairs that rested
                        against the house, and I slowly clasped it. I saw the leader still standing
                        by the rail, the rope in his hand. His accomplice was so close that I could
                        hear his quick breathing, and something in his dimly outlined crouching
                        figure was familiar. Then it flashed over me that he was the dark sailor I
                        had ordered from Glenarm that afternoon.
                    He was now within arm's length of me and I jumped out, swung the
                        chair high and brought it down with a crash on his head. The force of the
                        blow carried me forward and jerked the chair out of my grasp; and down we
                        went with a mighty thump. I felt the Italian's body  slip and twist lithely under me as I tried to
                        clasp his arms. He struggled fiercely to free himself, and I felt the point
                        of a knife prick my left wrist sharply as I sought to hold his right arm to
                        the deck. His muscles were like iron, and I had no wish to let him clasp me
                        in his short thick arms; nor did the idea of being struck with a knife cheer
                        me greatly in that first moment of the fight.
                    My main business was to keep free of the knife. He was slowly lifting me on
                        his knees, while I gripped his arm with both hands. The other man had
                        dropped into the boat and was watching us across the rail.
                    "Make haste, Giuseppe!" he called impatiently, and I
                        laughed a little, either at his confidence in the outcome or at his care for
                        his own security; and my courage rose o find that I had
                        only one to reckon with. I bent grimly to the task of holding the
                        Italian's right arm to the deck, with my left hand on his shoulder
                        and my right fastened to his wrist, he meanwhile choking me very prettily
                        with his free hand. His knees were slowly raising me and crowding me higher
                        on his chest and the big rough hand on my throat tightened. I suddenly
                        slipped my left hand down to where my right gripped his wrist and wrenched
                        it sharply. His fingers relaxed,  and when I
                        repeated the twist the knife rattled on the deek.
                    I broke away and leaped for the rail with some idea of jumping into the creek
                        and swimming for it; and then the man in the boat let go twice with a
                        revolver, the echoing explosions roaring over the still creek with the sound
                        of saluting battleships.
                    "Hold on to that manhold him!" he shouted from below. I
                        heard the Italian scraping about on the deck for his knife as I dodged round
                        the house. I missed the steps in the dark and scrambled for them wildly,
                        found them and was dashing for the path before the last echo of the shot had
                        died away down the little valley. I was satisfied to let things stand as
                        they were, and leave Henry Holbrook and the canoe-maker to defend their own
                        lives and property. Then, when I was about midway of the steps, a man
                        plunged down from the garden and had me by the collar and on my back before
                        I knew what had happened.
                    There was an instant's silence in which I heard angry voices from
                        the house-boat. My new assailant listened, too, and I felt his grasp on me
                        tighten, though I was well winded and tame enough.
                    I heard the boat strike the platform sharply as the second  man jumped into it; then for an instant
                        silence again held the valley.
                    My captor seemed to dismiss the retreating boat, and poking a pistol into my
                        ribs gave me his attention.
                    "Climb up these steps, and do as I tell you. If you run, I will
                        shoot you like a dog."
                    "There's a mistake" I began chokingly, for the
                        Italian had almost strangled me and my lungs were as empty as a spent
                        bellows.
                    "That will do. Climb!" He stuck the revolver into my back
                        and up I went and through the garden toward the cottage. A door opening on
                        the veranda was slightly ajar, and I was thrust forward none too gently into
                        a lighted room.
                    My captor and I studied each other attentively for half a minute. He was
                        beyond question the man whom Helen Holbrook had sought at the house-boat in
                        the summer dusk. Who Hartridge was did not matter; it was evident that
                        Holbrook was quite at home in the canoe-maker's house, and that he
                        had no intention of calling any one else into our affairs. He had
                        undoubtedly heard the revolver shots below and rushed from the cottage to
                        investigate; and, meeting me in full flight, he had naturally taken it for
                        granted that I was involved in  some designs on
                        himself. As he leaned against a table by the door his grave blue eyes
                        scrutinized me with mingled indignation and interest. He wore white duck
                        trousers turned up over tan shoes, and a gray outing shirt with a blue scarf
                        knotted under its soft collar.
                    I seemed to puzzle him, and his gaze swept me from head to foot several times
                        before he spoke. Then his eyes flashed angrily and he took a step toward
                        me.
                    "Who in the devil are you and what do you want?"
                    "My name is Donovan, and I don't want anything except to
                        get home."
                    "Where do you come from at this hour of the night?"
                    "I am spending the summer at Mr. Glenarm's place near
                        Annandale."
                    "That's rather unlikely; Mr. Glenarm is abroad. What were
                        you doing down there on the creek?"
                    "I wasn't doing anything until two men came along to kill
                        you and I mixed up with them and got badly mussed for my
                        trouble."
                    He eyed me with a new interest.
                    "They came to kill me, did they? You tell a good story, Mr.
                        Donovan."
                    "Quite so. I was standing on the deck of the houseboat or whatever
                        it is"
                    
                    "Where you had no business to be"
                    "Granted. I had no business to be there; but I was there and came
                        near getting killed for my impertinence, as I have told you. Those fellows
                        rowed up from the direction of the lake. One of them told the other to call
                        you to your door on the pretense of summoning aid for a broken motor-car off
                        there in the road. Then he was to stab you. The assassin was an Italian. His
                        employer spoke to him in that tongue. I happen to be acquainted with
                        it."
                    "You are a very accomplished person," he observed
                        dryly.
                    He walked up to me and felt my pockets.
                    "Who fired that pistol?"
                    "The man in charge of the expedition. The Italian was trying to
                        knife me on the deck, and I broke away from him and ran. His employer had
                        gone back to the boat for safety and he took a crack at me as I ran across
                        the platform. It's not the fault of either that I'm not
                        quite out of business."
                    An inner door back of me creaked slightly. My captor swung round at the
                        sound.
                    "O Rosalind! It's all right. A gentleman here lost his way
                        and I'm giving him his bearings."
                    
                    The door closed gently, and I heard the sound of steps retreating through the
                        cottage. I noted the anxious look in Holbrook's face as he waited
                        for the sounds to cease; then he addressed me again.
                    "Mr. Donovan, this is a quiet neighborhood, and I am a peaceable
                        man, whose worldly goods could tempt no one. There were undoubtedly others
                        besides yourself down there at the creek, for one man couldn't have
                        made all that row; but as you are the one I caught I must deal with you. But
                        you have protested too much; the idea of Italian bandits on Tippecanoe Creek
                        is creditable to your imagination, but it doesn't appeal to my
                        common sense. I don't know about your being a guest at Glenarm
                        Houseeven that is flimsy. A guest in the absence of the host is just a
                        little too fanciful. I'm strongly disposed to take you to the
                        calaboose at Tippecanoe village."
                    Having been in jail several times in different parts of the world I was not
                        anxious to add to my experiences in that direction. Moreover, I had come to
                        this lonely house on the Tippecanoe to gain information touching the
                        movements of Henry Holbrook, and I did not relish the idea of being thrown
                        into a country jail by him. I resolved to meet the situation boldly.
                    
                    "You seem to accept my word reluctantly, even after I have saved you
                        from being struck down at your own door. Now I will be frank with you. I had
                        a purpose in coming here"
                    He stepped back and folded his arms.
                    "Yes, I thought so." He looked about uneasily, before his
                        eyes met mine. His hands beat nervously on his sleeves as he waited, and I
                        resolved to bring matters to an issue by speaking his name.
                    
                        "I know who you are, Mr. Holbrook."
                    
                    His hands went into his pockets again, and he stepped back and laughed.
                    "You are a remarkably bad guesser, Mr. Donovan. If you had visited
                        me by daylight instead of coming like a thief at midnight, you would have
                        saved yourself much trouble. My name is displayed over the outer gate. I am
                        Robert Hartridge, a canoe-maker."
                    He spoke the name carelessly, his manner and tone implying that there could
                        be no debating the subject. I was prepared for evasion but not for this cool
                        denial of his identity.
                    "But this afternoon, Mr. Holbrook, I chanced to follow the creek to
                        this point and I saw"
                    "You probably saw that house-boat down there, that  is my shop. As I tell you, I am a maker of
                        canoes. They have, I hope, some reputationhonest hand-work; and my output is
                        limited. I shall be deeply chagrined if you have never heard of the
                        Hartridge canoe."
                    He shook his head in mock grief, walked to a cabarette and took up a pipe and
                        filled it. He was carrying off the situation well; but his coolness angered
                        me.
                    "Mr. Hartridge, I am sorry that I must believe that heretofore you
                        have been known as Holbrook. The fact was clenched for me this afternoon,
                        quite late, as I stood in the path below here. I heard quite distinctly a
                        young woman call you father."
                    "So? Then you're an eavesdropper as well as a
                        trespasser!"and the man laughed.
                    "We will admit that I am both," I flared angrily.
                    "You are considerate, Mr. Donovan!"
                    "The young woman who called you father and whom you answered from
                        the deck of the house-boat is a person I know."
                    "The devil!"
                    He calmly puffed his pipe, holding the bowl in his fingers, his idle hand
                        thrust into his trousers pocket.
                    "It was Miss Helen Holbrook that I saw here, Mr.
                        Hartridge."
                    
                    He started, then recovered himself and peered into the pipe bowl for a
                        second; then looked at me with an amused smile on his face.
                    "You certainly have a wonderful imagination. The person you saw, if
                        you saw any one on your visit to these premises to-day, was my daughter,
                        Rosalind Hartridge. Where do you think you knew her, Mr.
                        Donovan?"
                    "I saw her this morning, at St. Agatha's School. I not only
                        saw her, but I talked with her, and I am neither deaf nor
                        blind."
                    He pursed his lips and studied me, with his head slightly tilted to one side,
                        in a cool fashion that I did not like.
                    "Rather an odd place to have met this Misswhat name, did you
                        say?Miss Helen Holbrook;a closed school-house, and that sort of
                        thing."
                    "You may ease your mind on that point; she was with your sister, her
                        aunt, Mr. Holbrook; and I want you to understand that your following Miss
                        Patricia Holbrook here is infamous and that I have no other business but to
                        protect her from you."
                    He bent his eyes upon me gravely and nodded several times.
                    
                    "Mr. Donovan," he began, "I repeat that I am not
                        Henry Holbrook, and my daughteris my daughter, and not your Miss Helen
                        Holbrook. Moreover, if you will go to Tippecanoe or to Annandale and ask
                        about me you will learn that I have long been a resident of this community,
                        working at my trade, that of a canoemaker. That shop down there by the creek
                        and this house, I built myself."
                    "But the girl"
                    "Was not Helen Holbrook, but my daughter, Rosalind Hartridge. She
                        has been away at school, and came home only a week ago. You are clearly
                        mistaken; and if you will call, as you undoubtedly will, on your Miss
                        Holbrook at St. Agatha's in the morning, you will undoubtedly find
                        your young lady there quite safely in charge ofwhat was the name, Miss
                        Patricia Holbrook?in whose behalf you take so praiseworthy an
                        interest."
                    He was treating me quite as though I were a stupid school-boy, but I rallied
                        sufficiently to demand:
                    "If you are so peaceable and only a boat-maker here, will you tell
                        me why you have enemies who are so anxious to kill you? I imagine that
                        murder isn't common on the quiet shores of this little creek, and
                        that an
                    
                    Italian sailor is not employed to kill men who have not a past of some sort
                        behind them."
                    His brows knit and the jaw under his short beard tightened. Then he smiled
                        and threw his pipe on the cabarette.
                    "I have only your word for it that there's an Italian in
                        the wood-pile. I have friends among the country folk here and in the lake
                        villages who can vouch for me. As I am not in the least interested in your
                        affairs I shall not trouble you for your credentials; but as the hour is
                        late and I hope I have satisfied you that we have no acquaintances in
                        common, I will bid you good night. If you care for a boat to carry you
                        home"
                    "Thank you, no!" I jerked.
                    He bowed with slightly exaggerated courtesy, walked to the door and threw it
                        open. He spoke of the beauty of the night as he walked by my side through
                        the garden path to the outer gate. He asked where I had left my horse,
                        wished me a pleasant ride home, and I was striding up the highway in no
                        agreeable frame of mind before I quite realized that after narrowly escaping
                        death on his house-boat at the hands of his enemies, Henry Holbrook had not
                        only sent me away as ignorant as I had come, but had added considerably to
                        my perplexities.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    A SUNDAY'S MIXED AFFAIRS
                    
                        Of course, in company with the rest of my fellow-men, I had always tied
                            the sheet in a sailing boat; but in so little and crank a concern as a
                            canoe, and with these charging squalls, I was not prepared to find
                            myself follow the same principle; and it inspired me with some
                            contemptuous views of our regard for life. It is certainly easier to
                            smoke with the sheet fastened; but I had never before weighed a
                            comfortable pipe of tobacco against an obvious risk, and gravely elected
                            for the comfortable pipe.
                        
                            R. L. S., An Inland Voyage.
                        
                    
                    The faithful Ijima opened the door of Glenarm House, and after I had
                        swallowed the supper he always had ready for me when I kept late hours, I
                        established myself in comfort on the terrace and studied the affairs of the
                        house of Holbrook until the robins rang up the dawn. On their hint I went to
                        bed and slept until Ijima came in at ten o'clock with my coffee. An
                        old hymn chimed by the chapel bells reminded me that it was Sunday. Services
                        were held during the summer, so the house servants informed me for the
                        benefit of the cottagers at Port Annandale; and walking to our pier  I soon saw a flotilla of launches and canoes
                        steering for St. Agatha's. I entered the school grounds by the
                        Glenarm gate and watched several smart traps approach by the lake road,
                        depositing other devout folk at the chapel.
                    The sight of bright parasols and modish gowns, the semi-urban Sunday that had
                        fallen in this quiet corner of the world, as though out of the bright blue
                        above, made all the more unreal my experiences of the night. And just then
                        the door of the main hall of St. Agatha's opened, and forth came
                        Miss Pat, Helen Holbrook and Sister Margaret and walked toward the
                        chapel.
                    It was Helen who greeted me first.
                    "Aunt Pat can't withstand the temptations of a day like
                        this. We're chagrined to think we never knew this part of the world
                        before!"
                    "I'm sure there is no danger," said Miss Pat,
                        smiling at her own timidity as she gave me her hand. I thought that she
                        wished to speak to me alone, but Helen lingered at her side, and it was she
                        who asked the question that was on her aunt's lips.
                    "We are undiscovered? You have heard nothing, Mr.
                        Donovan?"
                    
                    "Nothing, Miss Holbrook," I said; and I turned away from
                        Miss Patwhose eyes made lying difficultto Helen, who met my gaze with
                        charming candor.
                    And I took account of the girl anew as I walked between her and Miss Pat.
                        through a trellised lane that alternated crimson ramblers and purple
                        clematis, to the chapel, Sister Margaret's brown-robed figure
                        preceding us. The open sky, the fresh airs of morning, the bird-song and the
                        smell of verdurous earth in themselves gave Sabbath benediction. I
                        challenged all my senses as I heard Helen's deep voice running on
                        in light banter with her aunt. It was not possible that I had seen her
                        through the dusk only the day before, traitorously meeting her father, the
                        foe of this dear old lady who walked beside me. It was an impossible thing;
                        the thought was unchivalrous and unworthy of any man calling himself
                        gentleman. No one so wholly beautiful, no one with her voice, her steady
                        tranquil eyes, could, I argued, do ill. And yet I had seen and heard her; I
                        might have touched her as she crossed my path and ran down to the
                        house-boat!
                    She wore to-day a white and green gown and trailed a green parasol in a
                        white-gloved hand. Her small round hat with its sharply upturned brim
                        imparted a new  frankness to her face. Several
                        times she looked at me quicklyshe was almost my own heightand there was no
                        questioning the perfect honesty of her splendid eyes.
                    "We hoped you might drop in yesterday afternoon," she said,
                        and my ears were at once alert.
                    "Yes," laughed Miss Pat, "we were"
                    "We were playing chess, and almost came to blows!" said
                        Helen. "We played from tea to dinner, and Sister Margaret really
                        had to come and tear us away from our game."
                    I had now learned, as though by her own intention, that she had been at St.
                        Agatha's, playing a harmless game with her aunt, at the very moment
                        that I had seen her at the canoe-maker's. And even more conclusive
                        was the fact that she had made this statement before her aunt, and that Miss
                        Pat had acquiesced in it.
                    We had reached the church door, and I had really intended entering with them;
                        but now I was in no frame of mind for church; I murmured an excuse about
                        having letters to write.
                    "But this afternoon we shall go for a ride or a sail; which shall it
                        be, Miss Holbrook?" I said, turning to Miss Pat in the church
                        porch.
                    She exchanged glances with Helen before replying.
                    
                    "As you please, Mr. Donovan. It might be that we should be safer on
                        the water"
                    I was relieved. On the lake there was much less chance of her being observed
                        by Henry Holbrook than in the highways about Annandale. It was, to be sure,
                        a question whether the man I had encountered at the canoemaker's
                        was really her brother; that question was still to be settled. The presence
                        of Gillespie I had forgotten utterly; but he was, at any rate, the least
                        important figure in the little drama unfolding before me.
                    "I shall come to your pier with the launch at five
                        o'clock," I said, and with their thanks murmuring in my
                        ears I turned away, went home and called for my horse.
                    I repeated my journey of the night before, making daylight acquaintance with
                        the highway. I brought my horse to a walk as I neared the
                        canoe-maker's cottage, and I read his sign and the lettering on his
                        mail-box and satisfied myself that the name Hartridge was indisputably set
                        forth on both. The cedar hedge and the pines before the house shut the
                        cottage off from the curious completely; but I saw the flutter of white
                        curtains in the open gable windows, and the red roof agleam in the bright
                        sunlight. There was no one in sight; perhaps 
                        the adventure and warning of the night had caused Holbrook to leave; but at
                        any rate I was bent upon asking about him in Tippecanoe village.
                    This place, lying about two miles beyond the canoemaker's, I found
                        to be a sleepy hamlet of perhaps fifty cottages, a country store, a
                        post-office, and a blacksmith shop. There was a water-trough in front of the
                        store, and I dismounted to give my horse a drink while I went to the cottage
                        behind the closed store to seek the shopkeeper.
                    I found him in a garden under an apple-tree reading a newspaper. He was an
                        old fellow in spectacles, and, assuming that I was an idler from the summer
                        colony, he greeted me courteously.
                    He confirmed my impression that the crops were all in first-rate condition,
                        and that the day was fine. I questioned him as to the character of the
                        winters in this region, spoke of the employments of the village folk, then
                        mentioned the canoe-maker.
                    "Yes; he works the year round down there on the Tippecanoe. He sells
                        his canoes all over the countrythe Hartridge, that's his name. You
                        must have seen his sign there by the cedar hedge. They say he gets big
                        prices for his canoes."
                    
                    "I suppose he's a native in these parts?" I
                        ventured.
                    "No; but he's been here a good while. I guess nobody knows
                        where he comes fromor cares. He works pretty hard, but I guess he likes
                        it."
                    "He's an industrious man, is he?"
                    "Oh, he's a steady worker; but he's a queer kind,
                        too. Now he never votes and he never goes to church; and for the sake of the
                        argument, neither do I,"and the old fellow winked prodigiously.
                        "He's a mighty odd man; but I can't say that
                        that's against him. But he's quiet and peaceable, and now
                        his daughter"
                    "Oh, he has a daughter?"
                    "Yes; and that's all he has, too; and they never have any
                        visitors. The daughter just come home the other day, and we ain't
                        hardly seen her yet. She's been away at school."
                    "I suppose Mr. Hartridge is absent sometimes; he doesn't
                        live down there all the time, does he?"
                    "I can't say that I could prove it; sometimes I
                        don't see him for a month or more; but his business is his own,
                        stranger," he concluded pointedly.
                    "You think that if Mr. Hartridge had a visitor you'd know
                        it?" I persisted, though the shopkeeper grew less amiable.
                    
                    "Well, now I might; and again I mightn't. Mr. Hartridge is
                        a queer man. I don't see him every day, and particularly in the
                        winter I don't keep track of him."
                    With a little leading the storekeeper described Hartridge for me, and his
                        description tallied exactly with the man who had caught me on the
                        canoe-makers premises the night before. And yet, when I had thanked the
                        storekeeper and ridden on through the village, I was as much befuddled as
                        ever. There was something decidedly incongruous in the idea that a man who
                        was, by all superficial signs, at least, a gentleman, should be established
                        in the business of making canoes by the side of a lonely creek in this odd
                        corner of the world. From the storekeeper's account, Hartridge
                        might be absent from his retreat for long periods; if he were Henry Holbrook
                        and wished to annoy his sister, it was not so far from this lonely creek to
                        the Connecticut town where Miss Pat lived. Again, as to the daughter, just
                        home from school and not yet familiar to the eyes of the village, she might
                        easily enough be an invention to hide the visits of Helen Holbrook. I found
                        myself trying to account for the fact that, by some means short of the
                        miraculous, Helen Holbrook had played chess with Miss Pat at St.
                        Agatha's at the very hour I had seen her with  her father on the Tippecanoe. And then I was baffled again as
                        I remembered that Paul Stoddard had sent the two women to St.
                        Agatha's, and that their destination could not have been chosen by
                        Helen Holbrook.
                    My thoughts wandered into many blind alleys as I rode on. I was thoroughly
                        disgusted with myself at finding the loose ends of the Holbrooks'
                        affairs multiplying so rapidly. The sun of noon shone hot overhead, and I
                        turned my horse into a road that led homeward by the eastern shore of the
                        lake. As I approached a little country church at the crown of a long hill I
                        saw a crowd gathered in the highway and reined my horse to see what had
                        happened. The congregation of farmers and their families had just been
                        dismissed; and they were pressing about a young man who stood in the center
                        of an excited throng. Drawing closer, I was amazed to find my friend
                        Gillespie the center of attention.
                    "But, my dear sir," cried a tall, bearded man whom I took
                        to be the minister of this wayside flock, "you must at least give
                        us the privilege of thanking you! You can not know what this means to us, a
                        gift so munificentso far beyond our dreams."
                    Whereat Gillespie, looking bored, shook his head, and tried to force his way
                        through the encircling rustics.
                    
                    He was clad in a Norfolk jacket and knickerbockers of fantastic plaid, with a
                        cap to match.
                    A young farmer, noting my curiosity and heavy with great news, whispered to
                        me:
                    "That boy in short pants put a thousand-dollar bill in the
                        collection basket. All in one bill! They thought it was  mistake,
                        but he told our preacher it was a free gift."
                    Just then I heard the voice of my fool raised so that all might hear:
                    "Friends, on the dusty highway of life I can take none of the honor
                        or credit you so kindly offer me. The money I have given you to-day I came
                        by honestly. I stepped into your cool and restful house of worship this
                        morning in search of bodily ease. The small voice of conscience stirred
                        within me. I had not been inside a church for two years, and I was greatly
                        shaken. But as I listened to your eloquent pastor I was aware that the green
                        wall-paper interrupted my soul currents. That vegetable-green tint is
                        notorious as a psychical interceptor. Spend the money as you like,
                        gentlemen; but if I, a stranger, may suggest it, try some less violent color
                        scheme in your mural decorations."
                    He seemed choking with emotion as with bowed head  he pushed his way through the circle and strode past me. The
                        people stared after him, mystified and marveling. I heard an old man calling
                        out:
                    "How wonderful are the ways of the Lord!"
                    I let Gillespie pass, and followed him slowly until a turn in the road hid us
                        from th staring church folk. He turned and saw me.
                    "You have discovered me, Donovan. Be sure your sins will find you
                        out! A simple people, singularly moved at the sight of a greenback. I have
                        rarely caused so much excitement."
                    "I suppose you are trying to ease your conscience by giving away
                        some of your button money."
                    "That is just it, Donovan. You have struck the brass tack on the
                        head. But now that we have met again, albeit through no fault of my own, let
                        me mention matters of real human interest."
                    "You might tell me what you're doing here
                        first."
                    "Walking; there were no cabs, Donovan."
                    "You choose a queer hour of the day for your exercise."
                    "One might say the same for your ride. But let us be sensible. I
                        dare say there's some common platform on which we both may
                        stand."
                    
                    "We'll assume it," I replied, dismounting by the
                        roadside that I might talk more easily. Bandages were still visible at his
                        wrists, and a strip of court-plaster across the knuckles of his right hand
                        otherwise testified to the edges of the glass in St. Agatha's
                        garden. He held up his hands ruefully.
                    "Those were nasty slashes; and I ripped them up badly in climbing
                        out of your window. But I couldn't linger: I am not without my
                        little occupations."
                    "You stand an excellent chance of being shot if you don't
                        clear out of this. If there's any shame in you you will go without
                        making further trouble."
                    "It has occurred to me," he began slowly, "that I
                        know something that you ought to know. I saw Henry Holbrook
                        yesterday."
                    "Where?" I demanded.
                    "On the lake. He's rented a sloop yacht called the Stiletto. I passed it yesterday on the Annandale steamer
                        and I saw him quite distinctly."
                    "It's all your fault that he's here!" I
                        blurted, thoroughly aroused. "If you had not followed those women
                        they might have spent the remainder of their lives here and never have been
                        molested. But he undoubtedly caught the trail from you."
                    
                    Gillespie nodded gravely and frowned before he answered.
                    "I am sorry to spoil your theory, my dear Irish brother, but put
                        this in your pipe: Henry was here first! He rented the
                        sail-boat ten days agoand I made my triumphal entry a week later. Explain
                        that, if you please, Mr. Donovan."
                    I was immensely relieved by this disclosure, for it satisfied me that I had
                        not been mistaken in the identity of the canoe-maker. I had, however, no
                        intention of taking the button king into my confidence.
                    "Where is Holbrook staying?" I asked casually.
                    "I don't knowhe keeps afloat. The Stiletto belongs to a Cincinnati man who isn't coming
                        here this summer and Holbrook has got the use of the yacht. So much I
                        learned from the boat storage man at Annandale; then I passed the Stiletto and saw Henry on board."
                    It was clear that I knew more than Gillespie, but he had supplied me with
                        several interesting bits of information, and, what was more to the point, he
                        had confirmed my belief that Henry Holbrook and the canoemaker were the same
                        person.
                    "You must see that I face a difficult situation here, without
                        counting you. You don't strike me as a wholly  bad lot, Gillespie, and why won't you run along like
                        a good boy and let me deal with Holbrook? Then when I have settled with him
                        I'll see what can be done for you. Your position as an unwelcome
                        suitor, engaged in annoying the lady you profess to love, and causing her
                        great anxiety and distress, is unworthy of the really good fellow I believe
                        you to be."
                    He was silent for a moment; then he spoke very soberly.
                    "I promise you, Donovan, that I will do nothing to encourage or help
                        Holbrook. I know as well as you that he's a blackguard; but my own
                        affairs I must manage in my own way."
                    "But as surely as you try to molest those women you will have to
                        answer to me. I am not in the habit of beginning what I never finish, and I
                        intend to keep those women out of your way as well as out of
                        Holbrook's clutches, and if you get a cracked head in the
                        businesswell, the crack's in your own skull, Mr.
                        Gillespie."
                    He shrugged his shoulders, threw up his head and turned away down the
                        road.
                    There was something about the fellow that I liked. I even felt a certain pity
                        for him as I passed him and rode on. He seemed simple and guileless, but
                        with a  dogged manliness beneath his
                        absurdities. He was undoubtedly deeply attached to Helen Holbrook and his
                        pursuit of her partook of a knight-errantish quality that would have
                        appealed to me in other circumstances; but he was the most negligible figure
                        that had yet appeared in the Holbrook affair, and as I put my horse to the
                        lope my thoughts reverted to Red Gate. That chess game and Helen's
                        visit to her father were still to be explained; if I could cut those cards
                        out of the pack I should be ready for something really difficult. I employed
                        myself with such reflections as I completed my sweep round the lake,
                        reaching Glenarm shortly after two o'clock.
                    I was hot and hungry, and grateful for the cool breath of the house as I
                        entered the hall.
                    "Miss Holbrook is waiting in the library," Ijima announced;
                        and in a moment I faced Miss Pat, who stood in one of the open French
                        windows looking out upon the wood.
                    She appeared to be deeply absorbed and did not turn until I spoke.
                    "I have waited for some time; I have something of importance to tell
                        you, Mr. Donovan," she began, seating herself.
                    "Yes, Miss Holbrook."
                    
                    "You remember that this morning, on our way to the chapel, Helen
                        spoke of our game of chess yesterday?"
                    "I remember perfectly," I replied; and my heart began to
                        pound suddenly, for I knew what the next sentence would be.
                    "Helen was not at St. Agatha's at the time she
                        indicated."
                    "Well, Miss Pat," I laughed, "Miss Holbrook
                        doesn't have to account to me for her movements. It isn't
                        important"
                    "Why isn't it important?" demanded Miss Pat in a
                        sharp tone that was new to me. She regarded me severely, and as I blinked
                        under her scrutiny she smiled a little at my discomfiture.
                    "Why, Miss Holbrook, she is not accountable to me for her actions.
                        If she fibbed about the chess it's a small matter."
                    "Perhaps it is; and possibly she is not accountable to me,
                        either."
                    "We must not probe human motives too deeply. Miss
                        Holbrook," I said evasively, wishing to allay her suspicions, if
                        possible. "A young woman is entitled to her whims. But now that you
                        have told me this, I suppose  I may as well
                        know how she accounted to you for this trifling deception."
                    "Oh, she said she wished to explore the country for herself; she
                        wished to satisfy herself of our safety; and she didn't want you to
                        think she was running foolishly into danger. She chafes under restraint, and
                        I fear does not wholly sympathize with my runaway tactics. She likes a
                        contest! And sometimes Helen takes pleasure in inbeing perverse. She has an
                        idea, Mr. Donovan, that you are a very severe person."
                    "I am honored that she should entertain any opinion of me
                        whatever," I replied, laughing.
                    "And now," said Miss Pat, "I must go back. Helen
                        went to her room to write some letters against a time when it may be
                        possible to communicate with our friends, and I took the opportunity to call
                        on you. It might be as well, Mr. Donovan, not to mention my
                        visit."
                    I walked beside Miss Pat to the gate, where she dismissed me, remarking that
                        she would be quite ready for a ride in the launch at five
                        o'clock.
                    The morning had added a few new-colored threads to the tangled skein I was
                        accumulating, but I felt that with the chess story explained I could safely
                        eliminate  the supernatural; and I was
                        relieved to find that no matter what other odd elements I had to reckon
                        with, a girl who could be in two places at the same time was not among
                        them.
                    Holbrook had not impressed me disagreeably; he had treated me rather
                        decently, all things considered. The fact that he had enemies who were
                        trying to kill him added zest to the whole adventure upon which my clerical
                        friend Stoddard had launched me. The Italian sailor was a long way from
                        tide-water, and who his employer wasthe person who had hung aloof so
                        conservatively during my scramble on the deck of the house-boatremained to
                        be seen. From every standpoint the Holbrook incident promised well, and I
                        was glad to find that human beings were still capable of interesting me so
                        much.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    A BROKEN OAR
                    
                        
                            We are in love's land to-day;
                            Where shall we go?
                            Love, shall we start or stay,
                            Or sail or row?
                            There's many a wind and way,
                            And never a May but May;
                            We are in love's hand to-day;
                            Where shall we go?
                        
                        
                            Swinburne.
                    
                    The white clouds of the later afternoon cruised dreamily between green wood
                        and blue sky. I brought the launch to St. Agatha's landing and
                        embarked the two exiles without incident. We set forth in good spirits,
                        Ijima at the engine and I at the wheel. The launch was comfortably large,
                        and the bright cushions, with Miss Pat's white parasol and
                        Helen's red one, marked us with the accent of Venice. I drove the
                        boat toward the open to guard against unfortunate encounters, and the course
                        once established I had little care but to give a wide berth to all the other
                        craft afloat. Helen exclaimed repeatedly  upon
                        the beauty of the lake, which the west wind rippled into many variations of
                        color. I was flattered by her friendliness; and yielded myself to the joy of
                        the day, agreeably thrilledI confess as muchby her dark loveliness as she
                        turned from time to time to speak to me.
                    Snowy sails stood forth upon the water like listless clouds; paddles flashed
                        as they rose dripping and caught the sun; and the lake's wooded
                        margins gave green horizons, cool and soothing to the eye, on every hand.
                        One of the lake steamers on its incessant journeys created a little sea for
                        us, but without disturbing my passengers.
                    "Aunt Pat is a famous sailor!" observed Helen as the launch
                        rocked. "The last time we crossed the captain had personally to
                        take her below during a hurricane."
                    "Helen always likes to make a heroine of me," said Miss Pat
                        with her adorable smile. "But I am not in the least afraid on the
                        water. I think there must have been sailors among my
                        ancestors."
                    She was as tranquil as the day. Her attitude toward her niece had not
                        changed; and I pleased myself with the reflection that mere ancestrythe
                        vigor and courage of indomitable old sea lordsdid not sufficiently  account for her, but that she testified to an
                        ampler background of race and was a fine flower that had been centuries in
                        making.
                    We cruised the shore of Port Annandale at a discreet distance and then bore
                        off again.
                    "Let us not go too near shore anywhere," said Helen; and
                        Miss Pat murmured acquiescence.
                    "No; we don't care to meet people," she remarked,
                        a trifle anxiously.
                    "I'm afraid I don't know any to introduce you
                        to," I replied, and turned away into the broadest part of the lake.
                        The launch was capable of a lively clip and the engine worked capitally. I
                        had no fear of being caught, even if we should be pursued, and this, in the
                        broad light of the peaceful Sabbath afternoon, seemed the remotest
                        possibility.
                    It had been understood that we were to remain out until the sun dropped into
                        the western wood, and I loitered on toward the upper lake where the shores
                        were rougher.
                    "That's a real island over therethey call it Battle
                        Orchardyou must have a glimpse of it."
                    "Oh, nothing is so delightful as an island!" exclaimed
                        Helen; and she quoted William Sharp's lines:
                    
                    
                        "There is an Isle beyond our ken,
                        Haunted by Dreams of weary men.
                        Gray Hopes enshadow it with wings
                        Weary with burdens of old things:
                        There the insatiate water-springs
                        Rise with the tears of all who weep:
                        And deep within it,deep, oh, deep:
                        The furtive voice of Sorrow sings.
                        There evermore,
                        Till Time be o'er,
                        Sad, oh, so sad! the Dreams of men
                        Drift through the Isle beyond our ken."
                    
                    Ijima had scanned the lake constantly since we started, as was his habit.
                        Miss Pat turned to speak to Helen of the shore that now swept away from us
                        in broader curves as we passed out of the connecting channel into the
                        farther lake. Ijima remarked to me quietly, as though speaking of the
                        engine:
                    "There's a man following in a rowboat."
                    And as I replied to some remark by Miss Pat, I saw, half a mile distant, its
                        sails hanging idly, a sloop that answered Gillespie's description
                        of the Stiletto. Its snowy canvas shone white against the
                        green verdure of Battle Orchard.
                    "Shut off the power a moment. We will turn here, Ijima,"and
                        I called Miss Pat's attention to a hoary old sycamore on the
                        western shore.
                    
                    "Oh, I'm disappointed not to cruise nearer the island with
                        the romantic name," cried Helen. "And there's a
                        yacht over there, too!"
                    I already had the boat swung round, and in reversing the course I lost the
                            Stiletto, which clung to the island shore; but I saw
                        now quite plainly the rowboat Ijima had reported as following us. It hung
                        off about a quarter of a mile and its single occupant had ceased rowing and
                        shipped his oars as though waiting. He was between us and the strait that
                        connected the upper and lower lakes. Though not alarmed I was irritated by
                        my carelessness in venturing through the strait and anxious to return to the
                        less wild part of the lake. I did not dare look over my shoulder, but kept
                        talking to my passengers, while Ijima, with the rare intuition of his race,
                        understood the situation and indicated by gestures the course.
                    "There's a boat sailing through the green, green
                        wood," exclaimed Helen; and true enough, as we crept in close to
                        the shore, we could still see, across a wooded point of the island, the
                        sails of the Stiletto, as of a boat of dreams, drifting
                        through the trees. And as I looked I saw something more. A tiny signal flag
                        was run quickly to the topmast head, withdrawn once and flashed back;  and as I faced the bow again the boatman
                        dropped his oars into the water.
                    "What a strange-looking man," remarked Miss Pat.
                    "He doesn't look like a native," I replied
                        carelessly.
                    The launch swung slowly around, cutting a half-circle, of which the
                        Italian's boat was the center. He dallied idly with his oars and
                        seemed to pay no heed to us, though he glanced several times toward the
                        yacht, which had now crept into full view, and under a freshening breeze was
                        bearing southward.
                    "Full speed, Ijima."
                    The engine responded instantly, and we cut through the water smartly. There
                        was a space of about twenty-five yards between the boatman and the nearer
                        shore. I did not believe that he would do more than try to annoy us by
                        forcing us on the swampy shore; for it was still broad daylight, and we were
                        likely at any moment to meet other craft. I was confident that with any sort
                        of luck I could slip past him and gain the strait, or dodge and run round
                        him before he could change the course of his heavy skiff.
                    I kicked the end of an oar which the launch carried for emergencies and
                        Ijima, on this hint, drew it toward him.
                    
                    "You can see some of the roofs of Port Annandale across the neck
                        here," I remarked, seeing that the women had begun to watch the
                        approaching boat uneasily.
                    I kept up a rapid fire of talk, but listened only to the engine's
                        regular beat. The launch was now close to the Italian's boat, and
                        having nearly completed the semi-circle I was obliged to turn a little to
                        watch him. Suddenly he sat up straight and lay to with the oars, pulling
                        hard toward a point we must pass in order to clear the strait and reach the
                        upper lake again. The fellow's hostile intentions were clear to all
                        of us now and we all silently awaited the outcome. His skiff rose high in
                        air under the impulsion of his strong arms, and if he struck our lighter
                        craft amidships, as seemed inevitable, he would undoubtedly swamp us.
                    Ijima half rose, glanced toward the yacht, which was heading for the strait,
                        and then at me, but I shook my head.
                    "Mind the engine, Ijima," I said with as much coolness as I
                        could muster.
                    The margin between us and the skiff rapidly diminished, and the Italian
                        turned to take his bearings with every lift of his oars. He had thrown off
                        his cap, and as he looked over his shoulder I saw his evil face sharply  outlined. I counted slowly to myself the
                        number of strokes that would be necessary to bring him in collision if he
                        persisted, charging against his progress our own swift, arrow-like flight
                        over the water. The shore was close, and I had counted on a full depth of
                        water, but Ijima now called out warningly in his shrill pipe and our bottom
                        scraped as I veered off. This manuver cost me the equivalent of ten of the
                        Italian's deep strokes, and the shallow water added a new element
                        of danger.
                    "Stand by with the oar, Ijima," I called in a low tone; and
                        I saw in a flash Miss Pat's face, quite calm, but with her lips set
                        tight.
                    Ten yards remained, I judged, between the skiff and the strait, and there was
                        nothing for us now but to let speed and space work out their problem.
                    Ijima stood up and seized the oar. I threw the wheel hard aport in a last
                        hope of dodging, and the launch listed badly as it swung round. Then the bow
                        of the skiff rose high, and Helen shrank away with a little cry; there was a
                        scratching and grinding for an instant, as Ijima, bending forward, dug the
                        oar into the skiff's bow and checked it with the full weight of his
                        body. As we fended off the oar snapped and splintered and he tumbled into
                        the water with a great splash, while we swerved,  and rocked for a moment and then sped on through the little
                        strait.
                    Looking back, I saw Ijima swimming for the shore. He rose in the water and
                        called "All right!" and I knew he would take excellent
                        care of himself. The Italian had shipped his oars and lay where we had left
                        him, and I heard him, above the beat of our engine, laugh derisively as we
                        glided out of sight. The water rippled pleasantly beneath us; the swallows
                        brushed the quiet blue with fleet wings, and in the west the sun was
                        spreading a thousand glories upon the up-piling clouds. Out in the upper
                        lake the wind freshened and we heard the low rumble of thunder.
                    "Miss Holbrook, will you please steer for me?"and in
                        effecting the necessary changes of position that I might get to the engine
                        we were all able to regain our composure. I saw Miss Pat touch her forehead
                        with her handkerchief; but she said nothing. Even after St.
                        Agatha's pier hove in sight silence held us all. The wind,
                        continuing to freshen, was whipping the lake with a sharp lash, and I made
                        much of my trifling business with the engine, and of the necessity for
                        occasional directions to the girl at the wheel.
                    My contrition at the danger to which I had stupidly  brought them was strong in me; but there were other things to
                        think of. Miss Pat could not be deceived as to the animus of our encounter,
                        for the Italian's conduct could hardly be accounted for on the
                        score of stupidity; and the natural peace and quiet of this region only
                        emphasized the gravity of her plight. My first thought was that I must at
                        once arrange for her removal to some other place. With Henry Holbrook
                        established within a few miles of St. Agatha's the school was
                        certainly no longer a tenable harborage.
                    As I tended the engine I saw, even when I tried to avoid her, the figure of
                        Helen Holbrook in the stern, quite intent upon steering and calling now and
                        then to ask the course when in my preoccupation I forgot to give it. The
                        storm was drawing a dark hood across the lake, and the thunder boomed more
                        loudly. Storms in this neighborhood break quickly and I ran full speed for
                        St. Agatha's to avoid the rain that already blurred the west.
                    We landed with some difficulty, owing to the roughened water and the hard
                        drive of the wind; but in a few minutes we had reached St. Agatha's
                        where Sister Margaret flung open the door just as the storm let go with a
                        roar.
                    
                    When we reached the sitting-room we talked with unmistakable restraint of the
                        storm and of our race with it across the lakewhile Sister Margaret stood by
                        murmuring her interest and sympathy. She withdrew immediately and we three
                        sat in silence, no one wishing to speak the first word. I saw with deep pity
                        that Miss Pat's eyes were bright with tears, and my heart burned
                        hot with self-accusation. Sister Margaret's quick step died away in
                        the hall, and still we waited while the rain drove against the house in
                        sheets and the branches of a tossing maple scratched spitefully on one of
                        the panes.
                    "We have been found out; my brother is here," said Miss
                        Pat.
                    "I am afraid that is true," I replied. "But you
                        must not distress yourself. This is not Sicily, where murder is a polite
                        diversion. The Italian wished merely to frighten us; it's a case of
                        sheerest blackmail. I am ashamed to have given him the opportunity. It was
                        my faultmy grievous fault; and I am heartily sorry for my
                        stupidity."
                    "Do not accuse yourself! It was inevitable from the beginning that
                        Henry should find us. But this place seemed remote enough. I had really
                        begun to feel quite securebut now!"
                    
                    "But now!" repeated Helen with a little sigh.
                    I marveled at the girl's composureat her quiet acceptance of the
                        situation, when I knew well enough her shameful duplicity. Then by one of
                        those intuitions of grace that were so charming in her she bent forward and
                        took Miss Pat's hand. The emerald rings flashed on both as though
                        in assertion of kinship.
                    "Dear Aunt Pat! You must not take that boat affair too seriously. It
                        may not have beenfatherwho did that."
                    She faltered, dropping her voice as she mentioned her father. I was aware
                        that Miss Pat put away her niece's hand with a sudden gestureI did
                        not know whether of impatience, or whether some new resolution had taken
                        hold of her. She rose and moved nearer to me.
                    "What have you to propose, Mr. Donovan?" she asked, and
                        something in her tone, in the light of her dear eyes, told me that she meant
                        to fight, that she knew more than she wished to say, and that she relied on
                        my support; and realizing this my heart went out to her anew. A maid brought
                        in a lamp and within the are of its soft light I saw Helen's lovely
                        head as she rested her arms on the table watching us. If there was to be a
                        contest of wits or of arms on this peaceful lake shore under  the high arches of summer, she and I were to
                        be foes; and while we waited for the maid to withdraw I indulged in foolish
                        speculations as to whether a man could love a girl and be her enemy at the
                        same time.
                    "I think we ought to go awayat once," the girl broke out
                        suddenly. "The place was ill-chosen; Father Stoddard should have
                        known better than to send us here!"
                    "Father Stoddard did the best he could for us, Helen. It is unfair
                        to blame him," said Miss Pat quietly. "And Mr. Donovan has
                        been much more than kind in undertaking to care for us at all."
                    "I have blundered badly enough!" I confessed
                        penitently.
                    "It might be better, Aunt Pat," began Helen slowly,
                        "to yield. What can it matter! A quarrel over money it is
                        sordid"
                    Miss Pat stood up abruptly and said quietly, without lifting her voice, and
                        turning from one to the other of us:
                    "We have prided ourselves for a hundred years, we American
                        Holbrooks, that we had good blood in us, and character and decency and
                        morality; and now that the menn of my house have thrown away their
                        birthright,  and made our name a plaything, I
                        am going to see whether the general decadence has struck me, too; and with
                        my brother Arthur, a fugitive because of his crimes, and my brother Henry
                        ready to murder me in his greed, it is time for me to test whatever blood is
                        left in my own poor old body, and I am going to begin now! I will not run
                        away another step; I am not going to be blackguarded and hounded about this
                        free country or driven across the sea; and I will not give Henry Holbrook
                        more money to use in disgracing our name. I have got to dieI have got to die
                        before he gets it."and she smiled at me so bravely that something
                        clutched my throat suddenly"and I have every intention, Mr.
                        Donovan, of living a very long time!"
                    Helen had risen, and she stood staring at her aunt in frank astonishment. Not
                        often, probably never before in her life, had anger held sway in the soul of
                        this woman; and there was something splendid in its manifestation. She had
                        spoken in almost her usual tone, though with a passionate tremor toward the
                        close; but her very restraint was in itself ominous.
                    "It shall be as you say, Miss Pat," I said, as soon as I
                        had got my breath.
                    "Certainly, Aunt Pat," murmured Helen tamely.
                    
                    "We can't be driven round the world. We may as well stay
                        where we are."
                    The storm was abating and I threw open the windows to let in the air.
                    "If you haven't wholly lost faith in me, Miss
                        Holbrook"
                    "I have every faith in you, Mr. Donovan!" smiled Miss
                        Pat.
                    "I shall hope to take better care of you in the
                        future."
                    "I am not afraid. I think that if Henry finds out that he can not
                        frighten me it will have a calming effect upon him."
                    "Yes; I suppose you are right, Aunt Pat," said Helen
                        passively.
                    I went home feeling that my responsibilities had been greatly increased by
                        Miss Pat's manifesto; on the whole I was relieved that she had not
                        ordered a retreat, for it would have distressed me sorely to abandon the
                        game at this juncture to seek a new hiding-place for my charges.
                    Long afterward Miss Pat's declaration of war rang in my ears. My
                        heart leaps now as I remember it. And I should like to be a poet long enough
                        to write A Ballade of All Old Ladies, or a lyric in their honor turned with
                        the grace of Colonel Lovelace and blithe with the spirit  of Friar Herrick. I should like to inform it
                        with their beautiful tender sympathy that is quick with tears but readier
                        with strength to help and to save; and it should reflect, too, the noble
                        patience, undismayed by time and distance, that makes a virtue of
                        waitingwaiting in the long twilight with folded hands for the ships that
                        never come! Men old and battle-scarred are celebrated in song and story; but
                        who are they to be preferred over this serene sisterhood? Let the worn
                        mothers of the world be throned by the fireside or placed at comfortable
                        ease in the shadow of hollyhocks and old-fashioned roses in familiar
                        gardens; it matters little, for they are supreme in any company. Whoever
                        would be gracious must serve them; whoever would be wise must sit at their
                        feet and take counsel. Nor believe too readily that the increasing tide of
                        years has quenched the fire in their souls; rather, it burns on with the
                        steady flame of sanctuary lights. Lucky were he who could imprison in song
                        those qualities that crown a woman's yearsvoicing what is in the
                        hearts of all of us as we watch those gracious angels going their quiet
                        ways, tending their secret altars of memory with flowers and blessing them
                        with tears.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    A LADY OF SHADOWS AND STARLIGHT
                    
                        
                            Still do the stars impart their light
                            To those that travel in the night;
                            Still time runs on, nor doth the hand
                            Or shadow on the dial stand;
                            The streams still glide and constant are:
                            Only thy mind
                            Untrue I find
                            Which carelessly
                            Neglects to be
                            Like stream or shadow, hand or star.
                        
                        
                            William Cartwright.
                        
                    
                    It was nine o'clock before Ijima came in, dripping from his tumble
                        in the lake and his walk home through the rain. The Italian had made no
                        effort to molest him, he reported; but he had watched the man row out to the
                            Stiletto and climb aboard. Ijima has an unbroken
                        record of never having asked me a question inspired by curiosity. He may
                        inquire which shoes I want for a particular morning, but why,
                            where and when are unknown in his vocabulary. He
                        was, I knew, fairly entitled to an explanation of the incident of the
                        afternoon,  though he would ask none, and when
                        he had changed his clothes and reported to me in the library I told him in a
                        word that there might be further trouble, and that I should expect him to
                        stand night watch at St. Agatha's for a while, dividing a patrol of
                        the grounds with the gardener. His "Yes, sir," was as calm
                        as though I had told him to lay out my dress clothes, and I went with him to
                        look up the gardener, that the division of patrol duty might be thoroughly
                        understood.
                    I gave the Scotchman a revolver and Ijima bore under his arm a repeating
                        rifle with which he and I had diverted ourselves at times in the pleasant
                        practice of breaking glass balls. I assigned him the water-front and told
                        the gardener to look out for intruders from the road. These precautions
                        taken, I rang the bell at St. Agatha's and asked for the ladies,
                        but was relieved to learn that they had retired, for the situation would not
                        be helped by debate, and if they were to remain at St. Agatha's it
                        was my affair to plan the necessary defensive strategy without troubling
                        them. And I must admit here, that at all times, from the moment I first saw
                        Helen Holbrook with her father at Red Gate, I had every intention of
                        shielding her to the utmost. The thought of trapping her, of catching her,
                        flagrante delicto,  was revolting; I had,
                        perhaps, a notion that in some way I should be able to thwart her without
                        showing my own hand; but this, as will appear, was not to be so easily
                        accomplished.
                    I went home and read for an hour, then got into heavy shoes and set forth to
                        reconnoiter. The chief avenue of danger lay, I imagined, across the lake,
                        and I passed through St. Agatha's to see that my guards were about
                        their business; then continued along a wooded bluff that rose to a
                        considerable height above the lake. There was a winding path which the
                        pilgrimages of school-girls in spring and autumn had worn hard, and I
                        followed it to its crest, where there was a stone bench, established for the
                        case of those who wished to take their sunsets in comfort. The place
                        commanded a fair view of the lake, and thence it was possible to see afar
                        off any boat that approached St. Agatha's or Glenarm. The wooded
                        bluff was cool and sweet from the rain, and a clear light was diffused by
                        the moon as I lighted my pipe and looked out upon the lake for signs of the
                            Stiletto.
                    
                    The path that rose through the wood from St. Agatha's declined again
                        from the seat, and came out somewhere below, where there was a spring sacred
                        to the school-girls, and where, I dare say, they still indulge in  the incantations of their species. I amused
                        myself picking out the pier lights as far as I had learned them, following
                        one of the lake steamers on its zigzag course from Port Annandale to the
                        village. Around me the great elms and maples still dripped. Eleven chimed
                        from the chapel clock, the strokes stealing up to me dreamily. A moment
                        later I heard a step in the path behind me, light, quick, and eager, and I
                        bent down low on the bench, so that its back shielded me from view, and
                        waited. I heard the sharp swish of bent twigs in the shrubbery as they
                        snapped back into place in the narrow trail, and then the voice of some one
                        humming softly. The steps drew closer to the bench, and some one passed
                        behind me. I was quite sure that it was a woman from the lightness of the
                        step, the feminine quality in the voice that continued to hum a little song,
                        and at the last moment the soft rustle of skirts. I rose and spoke her name
                        before my eyes were sure of her.
                    "Miss Holbrook!" I exclaimed.
                    She did not cry out, though she stepped back quickly from the bench.
                    "Oh, it's you, Mr. Donovan, is it?"
                    "It most certainly is!" I laughed. "We seem to
                        have similar tastes, Miss Holbrook."
                    
                    "An interest in geography, shall we call it?" she chaffed
                        gaily.
                    "Or astronomy! We will assume that we are both looking for the
                        Little Dipper."
                    "Good!" she returned on my own note. "Between the
                        affairs of the Holbrooks and your evening Dipper hunt you are a busy man,
                        Mr. Donovan."
                    "I am not half so busy as you are, Miss Holbrook! It must tax you
                        severely to maintain both sides of the barricade at the same time,"
                        I ventured boldly.
                    "That does require some ingenuity," she replied musingly,
                        "but I am a very flexible character."
                    "But what will bend will breakyou may carry the game too
                        far."
                    "Oh, are you tired of it already?"
                    "Not a bit of it; but I should like to make this stipulation with
                        you: that as you and I seem to be pitted against each other in this little
                        contest, we shall fight it all out behind Miss Pat's back. I prefer
                        that she shouldn't know what a" and I hesitated.
                    "Oh, give me a name, won't you?" she pleaded
                        mockingly.
                    "What a beautiful deceiver you are!"
                    "Splendid! We will agree that I am a deceiver!"
                    
                    "If it gives you pleasure! You are welcome to all the joy you can
                        get out of it!"
                    "Please don't be bitter! Let us play fair, and not stoop to
                        abuse."
                    "I should think you would feel contrite enough after that ugly
                        business of this afternoon. You didn't appear to be even annoyed by
                        that Italian's effort to smash the launch."
                    She was silent for an instant; I heard her breath come and go quickly; then
                        she responded with what seemed a forced lightness:
                    "You really think that was inspired by" she suddenly
                        appeared at a loss.
                    "By Henry Holbrook, as you know well enough. And if Miss Pat should
                        be murdered through his enmity, don't you see that your position in
                        the matter would be difficult to explain? Murder, my dear young woman, is
                        not looked upon complacently, even in this remote corner of the
                        world!"
                    "You seem given to the use of strong language, Mr. Donovan. Let us
                        drop the calling of names and consider just where you put me."
                    "I don't put you at all; you have taken your own stand. But
                        I will say that I was surprised, not to say 
                        pained, to find that you played the eavesdropper the very hour you came to
                        Annandale."
                    A moment's silence; the water murmured in the reeds below; an owl
                        hooted in the Glenarm wood; a restless bird chirped from its perch in a
                        maple overhead.
                    "Oh, to be sure!" she said at last. "You thought I
                        was listening while Aunt Pat unfolded the dark history of the
                        Holbrooks."
                    "I knew it, though I tried to believe I was mistaken. But when I saw
                        you there on Tippecanoe Creek, meeting your father at the
                        canoe-maker's house, I was astounded; I did not know that depravity
                        could go so far."
                    "My poor, unhappy, unfortunate father!" she said in a low
                        voice; there was almost a moan in it.
                    "I suppose you defend your conduct on the ground of filial
                        duty," I suggested, finding it difficult to be severe.
                    "Why shouldn't I? Who are you to judge our affairs? We are
                        the unhappiest family that ever lived; but I should like you to know that it
                        was not by my wish that you were brought into our councils. There is more in
                        all this than appears!"
                    "There is nothing in it but Miss Pather security, her peace, her
                        happiness. I am pledged to her, and the rest of you are nothing to me. But
                        you may tell your  father that I have been in
                        rows before and that I propose to stand by the guns."
                    "I shall deliver your message, Mr. Donovan; and I give you my
                        father's thanks for it," she mocked.
                    "Your father calls you Rosalindbefore strangers!" I
                        remarked.
                    "Yes. It's a fancy of his," she murmured
                        lingeringly. "Sometimes it's Viola, or Perdita, but, as I
                        think of it, it's oftener Rosalind. I hope you don't
                        object, Mr. Donovan?"
                    "No, I rather like it; it's in keeping with your variable
                        character. You seem prone, like Rosalind, to woodland wandering. I dare say
                        the other people of the cast will appear in due season. So far I have seen
                        only the Fool."
                    "The Fool? Oh, yes; there was Touchstone,
                        wasn't there?"
                    "I believe it is admitted that there was."
                    She laughed; I felt that we were bound to get on better, now that we
                        understood each other.
                    "You are rather proud of your attainments, aren't you? I
                        have really read the play, Mr. Donovan: I have even seen it
                        acted."
                    "I did not mean to reflect on your intelligence, which  is acute enough; or on your attainments,
                        which are sufficient; or on your experience of life, which is
                        ample!"
                    "Well spoken! I really believe that I am liking you better all the
                        time, Mr. Donovan."
                    "My heart is swollen with gratitude. You heard my talk with your
                        father at his cottage last night. And then you flew back to Miss Pat and
                        played the hypocrite with the artlessness of Rosalindthe real
                        Rosalind."
                    "Did I? Then I'm as elever as I am wicked. You, no doubt,
                        are as wise as you are good."
                    She folded her arms with a quick movement, the better, I thought, to express
                        satisfaction with her own share of the talk; then her manner changed
                        abruptly. She rested her hands on the back of the bench and bent toward
                        me.
                    "My father dealt very generously with you. You were an intruder. He
                        was well within his rights in capturing you. And, more than that, you drew
                        to our place some enemies of your own who may yet do us grave
                        injury."
                    "They were no enemies of mine! Didn't you hear me debating
                        that matter with your father? They were his enemies and they pounced on me
                        by mistake. It's not their fault that they didn't kill
                        me!"
                    
                    "That's a likely story. That little creek is the quietest
                        place in the world."
                    "How do you know?" I demanded, bending closer toward
                        her.
                    "Because my father tells me so! That was the reason he chose
                        it."
                    "He wanted a place to hide when the cities became too hot for him. I
                        advise you, Miss Holbrook, in view of all that has happened, and if you have
                        any sense of decency left, to keep away from there."
                    "And I suggest to you, Mr. Donovan, that your devotion to my aunt
                        does not require you to pursue my father. You do well to remember that a
                        stranger thrusting himself into the affairs of a family he does not know
                        puts himself in a very bad light."
                    "I am not asking your admiration, Miss Holbrook."
                    "You may save yourself the trouble!" she flashed; and then
                        laughed out merrily. "Let us not be so absurd! We are quarreling
                        like two school-children over an apple. It's really a pleasure to
                        meet you in this unconventional fashion, but we must be amiable. Our affairs
                        will not be settled by wordsI am sure of that. I must beg of you, the next
                        time you come forth at night, to wear your cloak and dagger. The
                        stage-setting is  fair enough; and the players
                        should dress their parts becomingly. I am already named Rosalindat night;
                        Aunt Pat we will call the Duchess in exile; and we were speaking a moment
                        ago of the Fool. Well, yes; there was a Fool."
                    "I might take the part myself, if Gillespie were not already cast
                        for it."
                    "Gillespie?" she said wonderingly; then added at once, as
                        though memory had prompted her: "To be sure there is
                        Gillespie."
                    "There is certainly Gillespie. Perhaps you would liefer call him
                        Orlando?" I ventured.
                    "Let me see," she pondered, bending her head; then:
                        "'O, that's a brave man! he writes brave verses,
                        speaks brave words, swears brave oaths and breaks them bravely, quite
                        traverse, athwart the heart of his lover; as a puisny tilter, that spurs his
                        horse but on one side, breaks his staff like a noble goose; but
                        all's brave that youth mounts and folly
                        guides."'
                    "That is Celia's speech, but well rendered. Let us consider
                        that you are Rosalind, Celia, Viola and Ariel all in one. And I shall be
                        those immortal villains of old tragedyfirst, second and third murtherer; or,
                        if it suit you better, let me be Iago for honesty; Othello  for great adventures; Hamlet for gloom;
                        Shylock for relentlessness, and Romeo for love-sickness."
                    Again she bent her head; then drawing a little away and clasping her hands,
                        she quoted: "'Come, woo me, woo me; for now I am in a
                        holiday humour and like enough to consent. What would you say to me now, an
                        I were your very, very Rosalind?""
                    I stammered a moment, dimly recalling Orlando's reply in the play. I
                        did not know whether she were daring me; and this was certainly not the
                        girl's mood as we had met at St. Agatha's. My heart leaped
                        and the blood tingled in my finger-tips as memory searched out the
                        long-forgotten scene; and suddenly I threw at her the line:
                    "'How if the kiss be denied?""
                    She shrugged her shoulders.
                    "The rehearsal has gone far enough. Let us come back to earth
                        again."
                    But this, somehow, was not so easy.
                    Far across the lake a heavy train rumbled, and its engine blew a long blast
                        for Annandale. I felt at that instant the unreality of the day's
                        events, with their culmination in this strange interview on the height above
                        the lake. Never, I thought, had man parleyed with woman  on so extraordinary a business. In the brief silence, while
                        the whistle's echoes rang round the shore, I drew away from the
                        bench that had stood like a barrieade between us and walked toward her. I
                        did not believe in her; she had flaunted her shameful trickery in my face;
                        and yet I felt her spell upon me as through the dusk I realized anew her
                        splendid height, the faint disclosure of her noble head and felt the glory
                        of her dark eyes. Verily, a lady of shadows, moonlight and dreams, whom it
                        befitted well to walk forth at night, bent upon plots and mischief, and
                        compelling love in such foolish hearts as mine. She did not draw away, but
                        stood quietly, with her head uplifted, a light scarf caught about her
                        shoulders, and on her head a round sailor's cap, tipped away from
                        her face.
                    "You must go back; I must see you safely to St.
                        Agatha's," I said.
                    She turned, drawing the scarf close under her throat with a quick gesture, as
                        though about to go. She laughed with more honest glee than I had known in
                        her before, and I forgot her duplicity, forgot the bold game she was
                        playing, and the consequences to which it must lead; my pulses bounded when
                        a bit of her scarf touched my hand as she flung a loose end over her
                        shoulder.
                    
                    "My dear Mr. Donovan, you propose the impossible! We are foes, you
                        must remember, and I can not accept your escort."
                    "But I have a guard about the house; you are likely to get into
                        trouble if you try to pass through. I must ask you to remember our pledge,
                        that you are not to vex Miss Pat unnecessarily in this affair. To rouse her
                        in the night would only add to her alarm. She has had enough to worry her
                        already. And I rather imagine," I added bitterly, "that
                        you don't propose killing her with your own hands."
                    "No; do give me credit for that!" she mocked. "But
                        I shall not disturb your guards, and I shall not distress Aunt Pat by making
                        a row in the garden trying to run your pickets. I want you to stay here five
                        minutescount them honestlyuntil I have had time to get back in my own
                        fashion. Is it a bargain?" She put out her hand as she turned
                        awayher left hand. As my fingers closed upon it an instant the emerald ring
                        touched my palm.
                    "I should think you would not wear that ring," I said,
                        detaining her hand, "it is too like hers; it is as though you were
                        plighted to her by it."
                    "Yes; it is like her own; she gave it"
                    
                    She choked and caught her breath sharply and her hand flew to her face.
                    "She gave it to my mother, long ago," she said, and ran
                        away down the path toward the school. A bit of gravel loosened by her step
                        slipped after her to a new resting-place; then silence and the night closed
                        upon her.
                    I threw myself upon the bench and waited, marveling at her. If I had not
                        touched her hand; if I had not heard her voice; if, more than all, I had not
                        talked with her of her father, of Miss Pat, of intimate things which no one
                        else could have known, I should not have believed that I had seen Helen
                        Holbrook face to face.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX
                    THE LIGHTS ON ST. AGATHA'S PIER
                    
                        
                            The night is still, the moon looks kind,
                            The dew hangs jewels in the heath,
                            An ivy climbs across thy blind,
                            And throws a light and misty wreath.
                        
                        
                            The dew hangs jewels in the heath,
                            Buds bloom for which the bee has pined;
                            I haste along, I quicker breathe,
                            The night is still, the moon looks kind.
                        
                        
                            Buds bloom for which the bee has pined,
                            The primrose slips its jealous sheath,
                            As up the flower-watched path I wind
                            And come thy window-ledge beneath.
                        
                        
                            The Primrose slips its jealous sheath,
                            Then open wide that churlish blind,
                            And kiss me through the ivy wreath!
                            The night is still, the moon looks kind.
                        
                        
                            Edith M. Thomas.
                        
                    
                    On my way home through St. Agatha's I stopped to question the two
                        guards. They had heard nothing, had seen nothing. How that girl had passed
                        them I did not know. I scanned the main building, where she and Miss Pat had
                        two rooms, with an intervening sitting-room, 
                        but all was dark. Miss Helen Holbrook was undeniably a resoureeful young
                        woman of charm and wit, and I went on to Glenarm House with a new respect
                        for her cleverness.
                    I was abroad early the next morning, retracing my steps through St.
                        Agatha's to the stone bench on the bluff with a vague notion of
                        confirming my memory of the night by actual contact with visible, tangible
                        things. The lake twinkled in the sunlight, the sky overhead was a flawless
                        sweep of blue, and the foliage shone from the deluge of the early night. But
                        in the soft mold of the path the print of a woman's shoe was
                        unmistakable. Now, in Ireland, when I was younger, I believed in fairies
                        with all my heart, and to this day I gladly break a lance for them with
                        scoffers. I know folk who have challenged them and been answered, and I
                        have, with my own eyes, caught glimpses of their lights along Irish
                        hillsides. Once, I verily believe, I was near to speech with themit was in a
                        highway by a starlit moorbut they laughed and ran away. The footprints in
                        the school-path were, however, no elfin trifles. I bent down and examined
                        them; I measured themungraciously, indefensibly, guiltilywith my hand, and
                        rose convinced that the neat outlines spoke of a modish bootmaker,  and were not to be explained away as marking
                        the lightly-limned step of a fairy or the gold-sandaled flight of Diana.
                        Then I descended to St. Agatha's and found Miss Pat and Helen
                        loitering tranquilly in the garden.
                    America holds no lovelier spot than the garden of St. Agatha's, with
                        its soft slopes of lawn, its hedges of box, its columned roses, its
                        interludes of such fragrant trifles as mignonette and sweet alyssum; its
                        trellised clematis and honeysuckle and its cool background of vine-hung
                        wall, where the eye that wearies of the riot of color may find rest.
                    They gave me good morningMiss Pat calm and gracious, and Helen in the spirit
                        of the morning itself, smiling, cool, and arguing for peace. Deception, as a
                        social accomplishment, she had undoubtedly carried far; and I was hard put
                        to hold up my end of the game. I have practised lying with past-masters in
                        the artthe bazaar keepers of Cairo, horse dealers in Moscow and rug brokers
                        in Teheran; but I dipped my colors to this amazing girl.
                    "I'm afraid that we are making ourselves a nuisance to
                        you," said Miss Pat. "I heard the watchmen patrolling the
                        walks last night."
                    
                    "Yes; it was quite feudal!" Helen broke in. "I
                        felt that we were back at least as far as the eleventh century. The splash
                        of waterwhich you can hear when the lake is roughmust be quite like the lap
                        of water in a moat. But I did not hear the clank of arms."
                    "No," I observed dryly. "Ijima wears blue serge
                        and carries a gun that would shoot clear through a crusader. The gardener is
                        a Scotchman, and his dialect would kill a horse."
                    Miss Pat paused behind us to deliberate upon a new species of hollyhock whose
                        minarets rose level with her kind, gentle eyes. Something had been in my
                        mind, and I took this opportunity to speak to Helen.
                    "Why don't you avert danger and avoid an ugly catastrophe
                        by confessing to Miss Pat that your duty and sympathy lie with your father?
                        It would save a lot of trouble in the end."
                    The flame leaped into Helen's face as she turned to me.
                    "I don't know what you mean! I have never been spoken to by
                        any one so outrageously!" She glanced hurriedly over her shoulder.
                        "My position is hard enough; it is difficult enough, without this.
                        I thought you wished to help us."
                    
                    I stared at her; she was drifting out of my reckoning, and leading me into
                        uncharted seas.
                    "Do you mean to tell me that you have not talked with your
                        fatherthat you have not seen him here?" I besought.
                    "Yes; I have seen himonce, and it was by accident. It was quite by
                        accident."
                    "Yes; I know of that"
                    "Then you have been spying upon me, Mr. Donovan!"
                    "Why did you tell me that outrageously foolish tale about your chess
                        game, when I knew exactly where you were at the very hour you would have had
                        me think you were dutifully engaged with your aunt? It seems to me, my dear
                        Miss Holbrook, that that is not so easy of explanation, even to my poor
                        wits."
                    "That was without purpose; really it was! I was restless and weary
                        from so much confinement; you can't know how dreary these late
                        years have been for usfor meand I wished just once to be free. I went for a
                        long walk into the country. And if you saw me, if you watched
                        me"
                    I gazed at her blankly. The thing could not have been better done on the
                        stage; but Miss Pat was walking toward us, and I put an end to the talk.
                    
                    "I came upon him by accidentI had no idea he was here," she
                        persisted.
                    "You are not growing tired of us," began Miss Pat, with her
                        brave, beautiful smile; "you are not anxious to be rid of
                        us?"
                    "I certainly am not," I replied. "I can't
                        tell you how glad I am that you have decided to remain here. I am quite sure
                        that with a little patience we shall wear out the besiegers. Our position
                        here has, you may say, the strength of its weaknesses. I think the policy of
                        the enemy is to harass you by guerilla methodsto annoy you and frighten you
                        into submission."
                    "Yes; I believe you are right," she said slowly. Helen had
                        walked on, and I loitered beside Miss Pat.
                    "I hope you have had no misgivings, Miss Pat, since our talk
                        yesterday."
                    "None whatever," she replied quickly. "I am quite
                        persuaded in my own mind that I should have been betier off if I had made a
                        stand long ago. I don't believe cowardice ever pays, do
                        you?"
                    She smiled up at me in her quick, bright way, and I was more than ever her
                        slave.
                    "Miss Holbrook, you are the bravest woman in the world! I believe
                        you are right. I think I should be  equal to
                        ten thousand men with your spirit to put heart into me."
                    "Don't be foolish," she said, laughing.
                        "But to show you that I am not really afraid, suppose you offer to
                        take us for a drive this evening. I think it would be well for me to appear
                        to-day, just to show the enemy that we are not driven to cover by our little
                        adventure in the launch yesterday."
                    "Certainly! Shall we carry outriders and a rear guard?"
                    "Not a bit of it. I think we may be able to shame my brother out of
                        his evil intentions by our defenselessness."
                    We waited for Helen to rejoin us, and the drive was planned for five.
                        Promptly on the hour, after a day of activity on my part in cruising the
                        lake, looking for signs of the enemy, we set forth in an open trap, and
                        plunged into country roads that traversed territory new to all of us. I
                        carried Ijima along, and when, after a few miles, Helen asked to take the
                        reins, I changed seats with her, and gave myself up to talk with Miss Pat.
                        The girl's mood was grave, and she wished to drive, I fancied, as
                        an excuse for silence. The land rolled gradually away into the south and
                        west, and we halted, in an hour or so, far from the lake, on a wooded
                        eminence that  commanded a long sweep in every
                        direction, and drew into the roadside. Ijima opened a gate that admitted us
                        to a superb maple grove, and in a few minutes we were having tea from the
                        hamper in the cheeriest mood in the world. The sun was contriving new
                        marvels in the west, and the wood that dipped lakeward beneath us gave an
                        illusion of thick tapestry to the eye.
                    "We could almost walk to the lake over the trees," said
                        Miss Pat. "It's a charming picture."
                    Then, as we all turned to the lake, seeing it afar across the tree-tops
                        through the fragrant twilight, I saw the Stiletto standing
                        out boldly upon the waters of Annandale, with a languid impudence that I
                        began to associate with its slim outlines and snowy canvas. Other craft were
                        abroad, and Miss Pat, I judged, spoke only of the prettiness of the general
                        landscape, and there was, to be sure, no reason why the sails of the Stiletto should have had any particular significance for
                        her. Helen was still looking down upon the lake when Miss Pat suggested that
                        we should go home; and even after her aunt called to her, the girl still
                        stood, one hand resting upon the trunk of a great beech, her gaze bent
                        wistfully, mournfully toward the lake. But on the homeward drive she had
                        asked for the reins againher mood changed 
                        abruptly, and she talked cheerily, often turning her head a scarlet-banded
                        sailor hat was, I thought, remarkably becomingto chaff about her skill with
                        the reins.
                    "I haven't a care or trouble in the world,"
                        declared Miss Pat when I left them at St. Agatha's. "I am
                        sure that we have known the worst that can happen to us in Annandale. I
                        refuse to be a bit frightened after that drive."
                    "It was charming," said Helen. "This is better
                        than the English lake country, because it isn't so smoothed
                        out."
                    "I will grant you all of that," I said. "I will go
                        further and admitwhat is much for methat it is almost equal to
                        Killarney."
                    There seemed to be sincerity in their good spirits, and I was myself
                        refreshed and relieved as I drove into Glenarm; but I arranged for the same
                        guard as on the night before. Helen Holbrook's double-dealing
                        created a condition of affairs that demanded cautious handling, and I had no
                        intention of being caught napping.
                    I am not, let me say, a person who boasts of his knowledge of human nature.
                        Good luck has served to minimize my own lack of subtlety in dealing with my
                        fellow-creatures; and I take no credit for such fortune  as I have enjoyed in contests of any sort with men or women.
                        As for the latter, I admire, I reverence, I love them; but I can not engage
                        to follow them when they leave the main road for short cuts and by-paths.
                        The day had gone so well that I viewed the night with complacency. I read my
                        foreign newspapers with a recurrence of the joy that the thought of remote
                        places always kindles in me. An article in The Times on
                        the unrest in Bulgariathe same old article on the same old unrestgave me the
                        usual heartache: I have been waiting ten years for something to happen in
                        that neighborhoodsomething really significant and offering a chance for fun,
                        and it seems as far away as ever.
                    From the window of my room I saw the Japanese boy patrolling the walks of St.
                        Agatha's, and the Holbrooks' affairs seemed paltry and
                        tame in contrast with the real business of war. A buckboard of youngsters
                        from Port Annandale passed in the road, leaving a trail of song behind them.
                        Then the frog choruses from the little brook that lay hidden in the Glenarm
                        wood sounded in my ears with maddening iteration, and I sought the open.
                    The previous night I had met Helen Holbrook by the stone seat on the ridge,
                        and I can not deny that it was  with the hope
                        of seeing her again that I set forth. That touch of her hand in the
                        moonlight lingered with me: I thrilled with eagerness as I remembered how my
                        pulses bounded when I found myself so close to her there in the fringe of
                        wood. She was beautiful with a rare loveliness at all times, yet I found
                        myself wondering whether, on the strange frontiers of love, it was her
                        daring duplicity that appealed to me. I set myself stubbornly into a pillory
                        reared of my own shame at the thought, and went out and climbed upon the
                        Glenarm wall and stared at the dark bulk of St. Agatha's as I
                        punished myself for having entertained any other thought of Helen Holbrook
                        than of a weak, vain, ungrateful girl, capable of making sad mischief for
                        her benefactor.
                    Ijima passed and repassed in the paved walk that curved among the school
                        buildings; I heard his step, and marked his pauses as he met the gardener at
                        the front door by an arrangement that I had suggested. As I considered the
                        matter I concluded that Helen Holbrook could readily slip out at the back of
                        the house, when the guards thus met, and that she had thus found egress on
                        the night before.
                    At this moment the two guards met precisely at the front door, and to my
                        surprise Sister Margaret, in the  brown garb
                        of her Sisterhood, stepped out, nodded to the watchmen in the light of the
                        overhanging lamp, and walked slowly round the buildings and toward the lake.
                        The men promptly resumed their patrol. The Sister slipped away like a shadow
                        through the garden; and I dropped down from the wall inside the school park
                        and stole after her. The guards were guilty of no impropriety in passing
                        her; there was, to be sure, no reason why Sister Margaret should not do
                        precisely as she liked at St. Agatha's. However, my curiosity was
                        piqued, and I crept quietly along through the young maples that fringed the
                        wall. She followed a path that led down to the pier, and I hung back to
                        watch, still believing that Sister Margaret had gone forth merely to enjoy
                        the peace and beauty of the night. I paused in a little thicket, and heard
                        her light step on the pier flooring; and I drew as near as I dared, in the
                        shadow of the boat-house.
                    She stood beside the upright staff from which the pier lights swungthe white
                        lantern between the two red onelooking out across the lake. The lights
                        outlined her tall figure distinctly. She peered about anxiously several
                        times, and I heard the impatient tap of her foot on the planks. In the lake
                        sounded the faint gurgle of water round a paddle, and in a moment a canoe
                        glided  to the pier and a man stepped out. He
                        bent down to seize the painter, and I half turned away, ashamed of the sheer
                        curiosity that had drawn me after the Sister. Nuns who chafe at their
                        prison-bars are not new, either to romance or history; and this surely was
                        no affair of mine. Then the man stood up, and I saw that it was Gillespie.
                        He was hatless, and his arms were bared. He began to speak, but she quieted
                        him with a word; and as with a gesture she flung back her brown hood, I saw
                        that it was Helen Holbrook.
                    "I had given you up," she said.
                    He took both her hands and held them, bending toward her eagerly. She seemed
                        taller than he in the lantern light.
                    "I should have come across the world," he said.
                    "You must believe that I should not have asked this of you if I had
                        not believed you could do it without injury to yourselfthat it would impose
                        no great burden on you, and that you would not think too ill of
                        me"
                    "I love you; I am here because I love you!" he said; and I
                        thought better of him than I had. He was a fool, and weak; but he was, I
                        believed, an honest fool, and my heart grew hot with jealous rage as I saw
                        them there together.
                    
                    "If there is more I can do!"
                    "No; and I should not ask you if there were. I have gone too far, as
                        it is," she sighed.
                    "You must take no risks; you must take care that Miss Pat knows
                        nothing."
                    "No; I must see father. He must go away. I believe he has lost his
                        senses from brooding on his troubles."
                    "But how did he ever get here? There is something very strange about
                        it."
                    "Oh, I knew he would follow us! But I did not tell him I was coming
                        hereI hope you did not believe that of me. I did not tell him any more than
                        I told you."
                    He laughed softly.
                    "You did not need to tell me; I could have found you anywhere in the
                        world, Helen. That man Donovan is watching you like a hawk; but
                        he's a pretty good fellow, with a Milesian joy in a row.
                        He's going to protect Miss Pat and you if he dies at the
                        business."
                    She shrugged her shoulders, and I saw her disdain of me in her face. A pretty
                        conspiracy this was, and I seemed to be only the crumpled wrapping of a pack
                        of cards, with no part in the game.
                    Gillespie drew an envelope from his pocket, held it to the white lantern for
                        an instant, then gave it to her.
                    
                    "I telegraphed to Chicago for a draft. He will have to leave here to
                        get itthe bank at Annandale carries no such sum; and it will be a means of
                        getting rid of him."
                    "Oh, I only hope he will leavehe musthe must!" she
                        cried.
                    "You must go back," he said. "These matters will
                        all come right in the end, Helen," he added kindly. "There
                        is one thing I do not understand."
                    "Oh, there are many things I do not understand!"
                    "The thing that troubles me is that your father was here before
                        you."
                    "Nothat isn't possible; I can't believe
                        it."
                    "He had engaged the Stiletto before you came to
                        Annandale; and while I was tracing you across the country he was already
                        here somewhere. He amuses himself with the yacht."
                    "Yes, I know; he is more of a menace that wayalways in our
                        sightalways where I must see him!"
                    Her face, clearly lighted by the lanterns, was touched with anxiety and
                        sorrow, and I saw her, with that prettiest gesture of woman's
                        thousand gracesthe nimble touch that makes sure no errant bit of hair has
                        gone wanderinglift her hand to her head for a moment.  The emerald ring flashed in the lantern light. I recall a
                        thought that occurred to me therethat the widow's peak, so sharply
                        marked in her forehead, was like the finger-print of some playful god. She
                        turned to go, but he caught her hands.
                    "Helen!" he cried softly.
                    "No! Please don't!"
                    She threw the nun's hood over her head and walked rapidly up the
                        pier and stole away through the garden toward St. Agatha's.
                        Gillespie listened for her step to die away, then he sighed heavily and bent
                        down to draw up his canoe. When I touched him on the shoulder he rose and
                        lifted the paddle menacingly.
                    "Ah, so it's our young and gifted Irish friend!"
                        he said, grinning. "No more sprinting stunts for me! I decline to
                        run. The thought of asparagus and powdered glass saddens me. Look at these
                        handsthese little hands still wrapped in mystical white rags. I have bled at
                        every pore to give you entertainment, and now it's got to be twenty
                        paces with bird-guns."
                    "What mischief are you in now?" I demanded angrily.
                        "I thought I warned you, Gillespie; I thought I even appealed to
                        your chivalry."
                    "My dear fellow, everything has changed. If a nun in  distress appeals to me for help, I am
                        Johnny-on-the-spot for Mother Church."
                    "That was not the Sister, it was Miss Holbrook. I saw her
                        distinctly; I heard"
                    "By Jove, this is gallant of you, Donovan! You are a marvelous
                        fellow!"
                    "I have a right to askI demand to know what it was you gave the
                        girl."
                    "Matine ticketsthe American girl without matine tickets is a lonely
                        pleiad bumping through the void."
                    "You are a contemptible ass. Your conduct is scoundrelly. If you
                        want to see Miss Holbrook, why don't you go to the house and call
                        on her like a gentleman? And as for her"
                    "Yes; and as for her?"
                    He stepped close to me threateningly.
                    "And as for her?" he repeated.
                    "As for her, she may go too far!"
                    "She is not answerable to you. She's the finest girl in the
                        world, and if you intimate"
                    "I intimate nothing. But what I saw and heard interested me a good
                        deal, Gillespie."
                    "What you heard by stealth, creeping about here at night, prying
                        into other people's affairs!"
                    
                    "I have pledged myself to care for Miss Pat."
                    "It's noble of you, Donovan!" and he stepped away
                        from me, grinning. "Miss Pat suggests nothing to me but
                        'button, button, who's got the button? She's a
                        bloomin' aristocrat, while I'm the wealth-cursed child of
                        democracy."
                    "You're a charming specimen!" I growled.
                    It was plain that he saw nothing out of the way in thus conniving with Helen
                        Holbrook against her aunt, and that he had not been struck by the enormity
                        of the girl's conduct in taking money from him. He drew in his
                        canoe as I debated with myself what to do with him.
                    "You've got to leave the lake," I said.
                        "You've got to go."
                    "Then I'm going, thank you!"
                    He sprang into the canoe, driving it far out of my reach; his paddle
                        splashed, and he was gone.
                    "Is that you, sir?" called Ijima behind me. "I
                        thought I heard some one talking."
                    "It is nothing, Ijima."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    THE FLUTTER OF A HANDKERCHIEF
                    
                        
                            As a bell in a chime
                            Sets its twin-note a-ringing,
                            As one poet's rhyme
                            Wakes another to singing,
                            So once she has smiled
                            All your thoughts are beguiled,
                            And flowers and song from your childhood are bringing.
                        
                        
                            Each grace is a jewel
                            Would ransom the town;
                            Her speech has no cruel,
                            Her praise is renown;
                            'Tis in her as though Beauty,
                            Resigning to Duty
                            The scepter, had still kept the purple and crown.
                        
                        
                            Robert Underwood Johnson.
                        
                    
                    The next morning at eight o'clock I sent a note to Miss Pat, asking
                        if she and the other ladies of her house would not take breakfast with me at
                        nine; and she replied, on her quaint visiting-card, in an old-fashioned
                        hand, that she and Helen would be glad to come, but that Sister Margaret
                        begged to be excused. It had been  in my mind
                        from the first to ask them to dine at Glenarm, and now I wished to see this
                        girl, to test, weigh, study her, as soon as possible after her meeting with
                        Gillespie. I wished to see how she would bear herself before her aunt and me
                        with that dark transaction on her conscience. The idea pleased me, and when
                        I saw the two women coming through the school garden I met them at the
                        gate.
                    Breakfast seems to be, in common experience, the most difficult meal of the
                        day, and yet that hour hangs in memory still as one of the brightest I ever
                        spent. The table was set on the terrace, and its white napery, the best
                        Glenarm silver and crystal, and a bowl of red roses still dewy from the
                        night, all blended coolly with the morning. As the strawberries were passed
                        I felt that the little table had brought us together in a new intimacy. It
                        was delightful to sit face to face with Miss Pat, and not less agreeable to
                        have at my right hand this bewildering girl, whose eyes laughed at me when I
                        sought shame in their depths. Miss Pat poured the coffee, and when I took my
                        cup I felt that it carried benediction with it. I was glad to see her so at
                        peace with the world, and her heart was not older, I could have sworn, than
                        the roses before her.
                    
                    "I shall refuse to leave when my time is up!" she declared.
                        "Do you think you could spend a winter here, Helen?"
                    "I should love it!" the girl replied. "It would be
                        perfectly splendid to watch the seasons march across the lake. We can both
                        enroll ourselves at St. Agatha's as post-graduate students, and
                        take a special course in weather here."
                    "If I didn't sometimes hear trains passing Annandale in the
                        night, I should forget that there's a great busy world off there
                        somewhere," said Miss Pat. "I am ashamed of myself for
                        having been so long discovering this spot. Except one journey to California,
                        I was never west of Philadelphia until I came here."
                    The world was satisfactory as it stood; and I was aware of no reason why it
                        should move on. The chime of the chapel tower drifted to us drowsily, as
                        though anxious to accommodate itself to the mood of a day that began
                        business by shattering the hour-glass. The mist that hung over the water
                        rose lazily, and disclosed the lake agleam in the full sunlight. Though Miss
                        Pat was content to linger, Helen, I thought, appeared restless; she rose and
                        walked to the edge of the terrace, the better to scan the lake, while Miss
                        Pat and I talked on. Miss  Pat's gift
                        of detachment was remarkable; if we had been looking down from a balcony
                        upon the Grand Canal, or break-fasting in an Italian garden, she could not
                        have been more at ease; nor did she refer even remotely to the odd business
                        that had brought her to the lake. She was, to be explicit, describing in her
                        delightful low voice, and in sentences vivid with spirit and color, a visit
                        she had once paid to a noble Italian family at their country seat. As Helen
                        wandered out of hearing I thought Miss Pat would surely seize the
                        opportunity to speak of the girl's father, at least to ask whether
                        I had heard of him further; but she avoided all mention of her troubles.
                    Helen stood by the line of scarlet geraniums that marked the balustrade, at a
                        point whence the best view of the lake was obtainableher hands clasped
                        behind her, her head turned slightly.
                    "There is no one quite like her!" exclaimed Miss Pat.
                    "She is beautiful!" I acquiesced.
                    Miss Pat talked on quickly, as though our silence might cause Helen to turn
                        and thus deprive us of the picture.
                    "Should you like to look over the house?" I asked a little
                        later, when Helen had come back to the table. "It  is said to be one of the finest houses in
                        interior America, and there are some good pictures."
                    "We should be very glad," said Miss Pat; and Helen murmured
                        assent.
                    "But we must not stay too long, Aunt Pat. Mr. Donovan has his own
                        affairs. We must not tax his generosity too far."
                    "And we are going to send some letters off to-day. If it
                        isn't asking too much, I should like to drive to the village
                        later," said Miss Pat.
                    "Yes; and I should like a paper of pins and a new
                        magazine," said Helen, a little, a very little eagerness in her
                        tone.
                    "Certainly. The stable is at your disposal, and our entire
                        marine."
                    "But we must see the Glenarm pictures first," said Miss
                        Pat, and we went at once into the great cool house, coming at last to the
                        gallery on the third floor.
                    "Whistler!" Miss Pat exclaimed in delight before the famous
                            Lady in the Gray Cloak. "I thought that
                        picture was owned in England."
                    "It was; but old Mr. Glenarm had to have it. That Meissonier is
                        supposed to be in Paris, but you see it's here."
                    
                    "It's wonderful!" said Miss Pat. She returned to
                        the Whistler and studied it with rapt attention, and I stood by, enjoying
                        her pleasure. One of the housemaids had followed us to the gallery and
                        opened the French windows giving upon a balcony, from which the lake lay
                        like a fold of blue silk beyond the wood. Helen had passed on while Miss Pat
                        hung upon the Whistler.
                    "How beautifully those draperies are suggested, Helen. That is one
                        of the best of all his things."
                    But Helen was not beside her, as she had thought. There were several recesses
                        in the room, and I thought the girl had stepped into one of these, but just
                        then I saw her shadow outside.
                    "Miss Holbrook is on the balcony," I said.
                    "Oh, very well. We must go," she replied quietly, but
                        lingered before the picture.
                    I left Miss Pat and crossed the room to the balcony. As I approached one of
                        the doors I saw Helen, standing tiptoe for greater height, slowly raise and
                        lower her handkerchief thrice, as though signaling to some one on the
                        water.
                    I laughed outright as I stepped beside her.
                    "It's better to be a picture than to look at one, Miss
                        Holbrook! Allow me!"
                    
                    In her confusion she had dropped her handkerchief, and when I returned it she
                        slipped it into her cuff with a murmur of thanks. A flash of anger lighted
                        her eyes and she colored slightly; but she was composed in an instant. And,
                        looking off beyond the water-tower, I was not surprised to see the Stiletto quite near our shore, her white sails filling
                        lazily in the scant wind. A tiny flag flashed recognition and answer of the
                        girl's signal, and was hauled down at once.
                    We were both silent as we watched it; then I turned to the girl, who bent her
                        head a moment, tucking the handkerchief a trifle more securely into her
                        sleeve. She smiled quizzically, with a compression of the lips.
                    "The view here is fine, isn't it?"
                    We regarded each other with entire good humor. I heard Miss Pat within,
                        slowly crossing the bare floor of the gallery.
                    "You are incomparable!" I exclaimed. "Verily, a
                        daughter of Janus has come among us!"
                    "The best pictures are outdoors, after all," commented Miss
                        Pat; and after a further ramble about the house they returned to St.
                        Agatha's, whence we were to drive together to Annandale in half an
                        hour.
                    I went to the stone water-tower and scanned the  movements of the Stiletto with a glass while I waited.
                        The sloop was tacking slowly away toward Annandale, her skipper managing his
                        sheet with an expert hand. It may have been the ugly business in which the
                        pretty toy was engaged, or it may have been the lazy deliberation of her
                        oblique progress over the water, but I felt then and afterward that there
                        was something sinister in every line of the Stiletto. The
                        more I deliberated the less certain I became of anything that pertained to
                        the Holbrooks; and I tested my memory by repeating the alphabet and counting
                        ten, to make sure that my wits were still equal to such exercises.
                    We drove into Annandale without incident and with no apparent timidity on
                        Miss Pat's part. Helen was all amiability and cheer. I turned
                        perforce to address her now and then, and was ashamed to find that the
                        lurking smile about her lips, and a challenging light in her eyes, woke no
                        resentment in me. The directness of her gaze was in itself disconcerting;
                        there was no heavy-lidded insolence about her: her manner suggested a
                        mischievous child who hides your stick and with feigned interest aids your
                        search for it in impossible places.
                    I left Miss Pat and Helen at the general store while I sought the hardware
                        merchant with a list of trifles  required for
                        Glenarm. I was detained some time longer than I had expected, and in leaving
                        I stood for a moment on the platform before the shop, gossiping with the
                        merchant of village affairs. I glanced down the street to see if the ladies
                        had appeared, and observed at the same time my team and wagon standing at
                        the curb in charge of the driver, just as I had left them.
                    While I still talked to the merchant, Helen came out of the general store,
                        glanced hurriedly up and down the street, and crossed quickly to the
                        post-office, which lay opposite. I watched her as I made my adieux to the
                        shopkeeper, and just then I witnessed something that interested me at once.
                        Within the open door of the post-office the Italian sailor lounged idly.
                        Helen carried a number of letters in her hand, and as she entered the
                        post-officeI was sure my eyes played me no trickdeftly, almost
                        imperceptibly, an envelope passed from her hand to the Italian's.
                        He stood immovable, as he had been, while the girl passed on into the
                        office. She reappeared at once, recrossed the street and met her aunt at the
                        door of the general store. I rejoined them, and as we all met by the waiting
                        trap the Italian left the post-office and strolled slowly away toward the
                        lake.
                    I was not sure whether Miss Pat saw him. If she did  she made no sign, but began describing with much amusement an
                        odd countryman she had seen in the shop.
                    "You mailed our letters, did you, Helen? Then I believe we have
                        quite finished, Mr. Donovan. I like your little village; I'm
                        disposed to love everything about this beautiful lake."
                    "Yes; even the town hall, where the Old Georgia Minstrels seem to
                        have appeared for one night only, some time last December, is a shrine
                        worthy of pilgrimages," remarked Helen. "And postage
                        stamps cost no more here than in Stamford. I had really expected that they
                        would be a trifle dearer."
                    I laughed rather more than was required, for those wonderful eyes of hers
                        were filled with something akin to honest fun. She was proud of herself, and
                        was even flushed the least bit with her success.
                    As we passed the village pier I saw the Stiletto lying at
                        the edge of the inlet that made a miniature harbor for the village, and,
                        rowing swiftly toward it, his oars flashing brightly, was the Italian, still
                        plainly in sight. Whether Miss Pat saw the boat and ignored it, or failed to
                        see, I did not know, for when I turned she was studying the cover of a
                        magazine that lay in her lap. Helen fell to talking vivaciously of the
                        contrasts between  American and English
                        landscape; and so we drove back to St. Agatha's.
                    Thereafter, for the matter of ten days, nothing happened. I brought the
                        ladies of St. Agatha's often to Glenarm, and we went forth together
                        constantly by land and water without interruption. They received and
                        despatched letters, and nothing marred the quiet order of their lives. The
                            Stiletto vanished from my horizon, and lay, so Ijima
                        learned for me, within the farther lake. Henry Holbrook had, I made no
                        doubt, gone away with the draft Helen had secured from Gillespie, and of
                        Gillespie himself I heard nothing.
                    As for Helen, I found it easy to forgive, and I grew eloquently defensive
                        whenever my heart accused her. Her moods were as changing as those of the
                        lake, and, like it, knew swift-gathering, passionate storms. Helen of the
                        stars was not Helen of the vivid sunlight. The mystery of night vanished in
                        her zest for the day, and I felt that her spirit strove against mine in all
                        our contests with paddle and racquet, or in our long gallops into the heart
                        of the sunset. She had fashioned for the night a dream-world in which she
                        moved like a whimsical shadow, but by day the fire of the sun flashed in her
                        blood.
                    
                    We established between ourselves a comradeship that was for me delightfully
                        perilous, but whichso she intimated one day, as though in warningwas only an
                        armed neutrality. We were playing tennis in the Glenarm court at the time,
                        and she smashed the ball back to me viciously.
                    "Your serve," she said.
                    And thus, with the joy of June filling the world, the enchanted days sped
                        by.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI
                    THE CARNIVAL OF CANOES
                    
                        
                            Thou canst not wave thy staff in air,
                            Or dip thy paddle in the lake,
                            But it carves the bow of beauty there,
                            And the ripples in rhymes the oar forsake.
                        
                        
                            Emerson.
                        
                    
                    I had dined alone and was lounging about the grounds when I heard voices near
                        the Glenarm wall. There was no formal walk there, and my steps were silenced
                        by the turf. The heavy scent of flowers from within gave me a hint of my
                        whereabouts; there was, I remembered, at this point on the school lawn a
                        rustic bench embowered in honeysuckle, and Miss Pat and Helen were, I
                        surmised, taking their coffee there. I started away, thinking to enter by
                        the gate and join them, when Helen's voice rose angrilythere was no
                        mistaking it, and she said in a tone that rang oddly on my ears:
                    "But you are unkind to him! You are unjust! It is not fair to blame
                        father for his ill-fortune."
                    "That is true, Helen; but it is not your father's
                        ill-fortune  that I hold against him. All I
                        ask of him is to be sane, reasonable, to change his manner of life, and to
                        come to me in a spirit of fairness."
                    "But he is proud, just as you are; and Uncle Arthur ruined him! It
                        was not father, but Uncle Arthur, who brought all these hideous things upon
                        us."
                    I passed rapidly on, and resumed my walk elsewhere. It was a sad business,
                        the shadowy father; the criminal uncle, who had, as Helen said, brought ruin
                        upon them all; the sweet, motherly, older sister, driven in desperation to
                        hide; and, not less melancholy, this beautiful girl, the pathos of whose
                        position had struck me increasingly. Perhaps Miss Pat was too severe, and I
                        half accused her of I know not what crimes of rapacity and greed for
                        withholding her brother's money; then I set my teeth hard into my
                        pipe as my slumbering loyalty to Miss Pat warmed in my heart again.
                    "It's the night of the carnival, sir," Ijima
                        reminded me, seeking me at the water-to-er.
                    "Very good, Ijima. You needn't lock the boat-house. I may
                        go out later."
                    The cottagers at Port Annandale hold once every summer a canoe fte, and this
                        was the appointed night. I was in no mood for gaiety of any sort, but it
                        occurred  to me that I might relieve the
                        strained relations between Helen and her aunt by taking them out to watch
                        the procession of boats. I passed through the gate and took a turn or two,
                        not to appear to know of the whereabouts of the women, and to my surprise
                        met Miss Pat walking alone.
                    She greeted me with her usual kindness, but I knew that I had broken upon sad
                        reflections. Her handker-chief vanished into the silk bag she wore at her
                        wrist. Helen was not in sight, but I strolled back and forth with Miss Pat,
                        thinking the girl might appear.
                    "I had a note from Father Stoddard to-day," said Miss
                        Pat.
                    "I congratulate you," I laughed. "He
                        doesn't honor me."
                    "He's much occupied," she remarked defensively;
                        "and I suppose he doesn't indulge in many letters. Mine
                        was only ten lines long, not more!"
                    "Father Stoddard feels that he has a mission in the world, and he
                        has little time for people like us, who have food, clothes and drink in
                        plenty. He gives his life to the hungry, unclothed and
                        thirsty."
                    And now, quite abruptly, Miss Pat spoke of her brother.
                    
                    "Has Henry gone?"
                    "Yes; he left ten days ago."
                    She nodded several times, then looked at me and smiled.
                    "You have frightened him off! I am grateful to you!"and I
                        was glad in my heart that she did not know that Gillespie's money
                        had sent him away.
                    Helen had not appeared, and I now made bold to ask for her.
                    "Let me send the maid to tell her you are here," said Miss
                        Pat, and we walked to the door and rang.
                    The maid quickly reported that Miss Holbrook begged to be excused.
                    "She is a little afraid of the damp night air of the
                        garden," said Miss Pat, with so kind an intention that I smiled to
                        myself. It was at the point of my tongue to remark, in my disappointment at
                        not seeing her, that she must have taken sudden alarm at the lake
                        atmosphere; but Miss Pat talked on unconcernedly. I felt from her manner
                        that she wished to detain me. No one might know how her heart ached, but it
                        was less the appeal of her gentleness that won me now, I think, than the
                        remembrance that flashed upon me of her passionate outburst after our
                        meeting with the Italian; and that  seemed
                        very long ago. She had been magnificent that day, like a queen driven to
                        desperation, and throwing down the gauntlet as though she had countless
                        battalions at her back. Indecision took flight before shame; it was a
                        privilege to know and to serve her!
                    "Miss Holbrook, won't you come out to see the water fte? We
                        can look upon it in security and comfort from the launch. The line of march
                        is from Port Annandale past here and toward the village, then back again.
                        You can come home whenever you like. I had hoped Miss Helen might come, too,
                        but I beg that you will take compassion upon my loneliness."
                    I had flung off my cap with the exaggerated manner I sometimes used with her;
                        and she dropped me a courtesy with the prettiest grace in the world.
                    "I shall be with you in a moment, my lord!"
                    She reappeared quickly and remarked, as I took her wraps, that Helen was very
                        sorry not to come.
                    The gardener was on duty, and I called Ijima to help with the launch.
                        Brightly decorated boats were already visible in the direction of Port
                        Annandale; even the tireless lake "tramps" whistled with a
                        special flourish and were radiant in vari-colored lanterns.
                    "This is an ampler Venice, but there should be music  to make it complete," observed Miss
                        Pat, as we stole in and out among the gathering fleet. And then, as though
                        in answer, a launch passed near, leaving a trail of murmurous chords
                        behindthe mournful throb of the guitar, the resonant beat of banjo strings.
                        Nothing can be so soothing to the troubled spirit as music over water, and I
                        watched with delight Miss Pat's deep absorption in all the sights
                        and sounds of the lake. We drifted past a sail-boat idling with windless
                        sails, its mast trimmed with lanterns, and every light multiplying itself in
                        the quiet water. Many and strange craft appeared farm folk and fishermen in
                        clumsy rowboats and summer colonists in launches, skiffs and canoes,
                        appeared from all directions to watch the parade.
                    The assembling canoes flashed out of the dark like fireflies. Not even the
                        spirits that tread the air come and go more magically than the canoe that is
                        wielded by a trained hand. The touch of the skilled paddler becomes but a
                        caress of the water. To have stolen across Saranac by moonlight; to have
                        paddled the devious course of the York or Kennebunk when the sea steals
                        inland for rest, or to dip up stars in lovely Annandaleof such experiences
                        is knowledge born!
                    I took care that we kept well to ourselves, for Miss  Pat turned nervously whenever a boat crept too near. Ijima,
                        understanding without being told, held the power well in hand. I had scanned
                        the lake at sundown for signs of the Stiletto, but it had
                        not ventured from the lower lake all day, and there was scarce enough air
                        stirring to ruffle the water.
                    "We can award the prize for ourselves here at the turn of the
                        loop," I remarked, as we swung into place and paused at a point
                        about a mile off Glenarm. "Here comes the flotilla!"
                    "The music is almost an impertinence, lovely as it is. The real song
                        of the canoe is 'dip and glide, dip and glide,'"
                        said Miss Pat.
                    The loop once made, we now looked upon a double line whose bright confusion
                        added to the picture. The canoe-offers, when you think of it, little chance
                        for the decorator, its lines are so trim and so founded upon rigid
                        simplicity; but many zealous hands had labored for the magic of this hour.
                        Slim masts supported lanterns in many and charming combinations, and
                        suddenly, as though the toy lamps had taken wing, rockets flung up their
                        stars and roman candles their golden showers at a dozen points of the line
                        and broadened the scope of the picture. A scow placed midway of the loop now
                        lighted  the lake with red and green fire. The
                        bright, graceful argosies slipped by, like beads upon a rosary. When the
                        last canoe had passed, Miss Pat turned to me, sighing softly:
                    "It was too pretty to last; it was a page out of the book of lost
                        youth."
                    I laughed back at her and signaled Ijima to go ahead and then, as the water
                        churned and foamed and I took the wheel, we were startled by an exclamation
                        from some one in a rowboat near at hand. The last of the peaceful armada had
                        passed, but now from the center of the lake, unobserved and unheralded,
                        stole a canoe fitted with slim masts carried high from bow to stern with
                        delightful daring. The lights were set in globes of green and gold, and high
                        over all, its support quite invisible, shone a golden star that seemed to
                        hover and follow the shadowy canoe.
                    We all watched the canoe intently; and my eyes now fell upon the figure of
                        the skipper of this fairy craft, who was set forth in clear relief against
                        the red fire beyond. The sole occupant of the canoe was a girlthere was no
                        debating it; she flashed by within a paddle's length of us, and I
                        heard the low bubble of water under her blade. She paddled kneeling, Indian
                        fashion, and  was lessening the breach between
                        herself and the last canoe of the orderly line, which now swept on toward
                        the casino.
                    "That's the prettiest one of all" began Miss Pat,
                        then ceased abruptly. She bent forward, half rising and gazing intently at
                        the canoe. What she saw and what I saw was Helen Holbrook plying the paddle
                        with practised stroke; and as she passed she glanced aloft to make sure that
                        her slender mast of lights was unshaken; and then she was gone, her star
                        twinkling upon us bewilderingly. I waited for Miss Pat to speak, but she did
                        not turn her head until the canoe itself had vanished and only its gliding
                        star marked it from the starry sisterhood above.
                    An exclamation faltered on my lips.
                    "It wasit was likeit was"
                    "I believe we had better go now," said Miss Pat softly,
                        and, I thought, a little brokenly.
                    But we still followed the star with our eyes, and we saw it gain the end of
                        the procession, sweep on at its own pace, past the casino, and then turn
                        abruptly and drive straight for Glenarm pier. It was now between us and our
                        own shore. It shone a moment against our pier lights; then the star and the
                        fairy lanterns beneath it 
                        anished one after another and the canoe disappeared as
                        utterly as though it had never been.
                    I purposely steered a zigzag course back to St. Agatha's. Since
                        Helen had seen fit to play this trick upon her aunt I wished to give her
                        ample time to dispose of her canoe and return to the school. If we had been
                        struck by a mere resemblance, why did the canoeist not go on to the casino
                        and enjoy the fruits of her victory? I tried to imagine Gillespie a party to
                        the escapade, but I could not fit him into it. Meanwhile I babbled on with
                        Miss Pat. An occasional rocket still broke with a golden shower over the
                        lake, and she now discussed the carnival and declared the gondola inferior
                        for grace to the American canoe. Her phrases were, however, a trifle stiff
                        and not in her usual light manner.
                    I walked with her from the pier to St. Agatha's.
                    Sister Margaret, who had observed the procession from an upper window, threw
                        open the door for us.
                    "How is Helen?" asked Miss Pat at once.
                    "She is very comfortable," replied the Sister. "I
                        went up only a moment ago to see if she wanted anything."
                    Miss Pat turned and gave me her hand in her pretty fashion.
                    "You see, it could not have beenit was notHelen;  our eyes deceived us! Thank you very much,
                        Mr. Donovan!"
                    There was no mistaking her relief; she smiled upon me beamingly as I stood
                        before her at the door.
                    "Of course! On a fte night one can never trust one's
                        eyes!"
                    "But it was all bewilderingly beautiful. You are most compassionate
                        toward a poor old woman in exile, Mr. Donovan. I must go up to Helen and
                        make her sorry for all she has missed."
                    I went back to the launch and sought far and near upon the lake for the canoe
                        with the single star. I wanted to see again the face that was uplifted in
                        the flood of colored lightthe head, the erect shoulders, the arms that drove
                        the blade so easily and certainly; for if it was not Helen Holbrook it was
                        her shadow that the gods had sent to mock me upon the face of the
                        waters.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII
                    THE MELANCHOLY OF MR. GILLESPIE
                    
                        I have neither the scholar's melancholy, which is emulation; nor
                            the musician's, which is fantastical; nor the
                            courtier's, which is proud; nor the soldier's, which
                            is ambitious; nor the lawyer's, which is politic; nor the
                            lady's, which is nice; nor the lover's, which is all
                            these; but it is a melancholy of mine own, compounded of many simples,
                            extracted from many objects; and indeed the sundry contemplation of my
                            travels, in which my often rumination wraps me in a most humorous
                            sadness.
                        
                            As You Like It.
                        
                    
                    I laughed a moment ago when, in looking over my notes of these affairs, I
                        marked the swift transition from those peaceful days to others of renewed
                        suspicions and strange events. I had begun to yield myself to blandishments
                        and to feel that there could be no further interruption of the idyllic hours
                        I was spending in Helen Holbrook's company. I still maintained, to
                        be sure, the guard as it had been established; and many pipes I smoked on
                        St. Agatha's pier, in the fond belief that I was merely fulfilling
                        my office as protector of Miss Pat, whereas I had reached a point where the
                        very walls that  held Helen Holbrook were of
                        such stuff as dreams are made of. My days were keyed to a mood that was
                        impatient of questions and intolerant of doubts. I was glad to take the
                        hours as they came, so long as they brought her. I did not refer to her
                        appearance in the parade of canoes, nor did Miss Pat mention it to me again.
                        It was a part of the summer's enchantment, and it was not for me to
                        knock at doors to which Helen Holbrook held the golden keys.
                    The only lingering blot in the bright calendar of those days was her meeting
                        with Gillespie on the pier, and the fact that she had accepted money from
                        him for her rascally father. But even this I excused. It was no easy thing
                        for a girl of her high spirits to be placed in a position of antagonism to
                        her own father; and as for Gillespie, he was at least a friend, abundantly
                        able to help her in her difficult position; and if, through his aid, she had
                        been able to get rid of her father, the end had certainly justified the
                        means. I reasoned that an educated man of good antecedents who was desperate
                        enough to attempt murder for profit in this enlightened twentieth century
                        was cheaply got rid of at any price, and it was extremely decent of
                        Gillespieso I arguedto have taken himself away after providing the means of
                        the  girl's release. I persuaded
                        myself eloquently on these lines while I exhausted the resources of Glenarm
                        in providing entertainment for both ladies. There had been other breakfasts
                        on the terrace at Glenarm, and tea almost every day in the shadow of St.
                        Agatha's, and one dinner of state in the great Glenarm dining-room;
                        but more blessed were those hours in which we rode, Helen and I, through the
                        sunset into dusk, or drove a canoe over the quiet lake by night. Miss Pat, I
                        felt sure, in so often leaving me alone with Helen, was favoring my
                        attentions; and thus the days passed, like bubbles on flowing water.
                    She was in my thoughts as I rode into Annandale to post some letters, and I
                        was about to remount at the post-office door when I saw a crowd gathered in
                        front of the village inn and walked along the street to learn the cause of
                        it. And there, calmly seated on a soap-box, was Gillespie, clad in amazing
                        checks, engaged in the delectable occupation of teaching a stray village
                        mongrel to jump a stick. The loungers seemed highly entertained, and
                        testified their appreciation in loud guffaws. I watched the performance for
                        several minutes, Gillespie meanwhile laboring patiently with the dull dog,
                        until finally it leaped the stick amid the applause of the  crowd. Gillespie patted the dog and rose,
                        bowing with exaggerated gravity.
                    "Gentlemen," he said, "I thank you for your kind
                        attention. Let my slight success with that poor cur teach you the lesson
                        that we may turn the idlest moment to some noble use. The education of the
                        lower animals is something to which too little attention is paid by those
                        who, through the processes of evolution, have risen to a higher species. I
                        am grateful, gentlemen, for your forbearance, and trust we may meet again
                        under circumstances more creditable to us allincluding the
                        dog."
                    The crowd turned away mystified, while Gillespie, feeling in his pocket for
                        his pipe, caught my eye and winked.
                    "Ah, Donovan," he said coolly, "and so you were
                        among the admiring spectators. I hope you have formed a high opinion of my
                        skill as a dog trainer. Once, I would have you know, I taught a Plymouth
                        Rock rooster to turn a summersault. Are you quite alone?"
                    "You seem to be as big a fool as ever!" I grumbled in
                        disgust, vexed at finding him in the neighborhood.
                    "Gallantly spoken, my dear fellow! You are an honor to the Irish
                        race and mankind. Our meeting, however, is not inopportune, as they say in
                        books; and I would  have speech with you,
                        gentle knight. The inn, though humble, is still not without decent comforts.
                        Will you honor me?"
                    He turned abruptly and led the way through the office and up the stairway,
                        babbling nonsense less for my entertainment, I imagined, than for the
                        befuddlement of the landlord, who leaned heavily upon his scant desk and
                        watched our ascent.
                    He opened a door, and lighted several oil lamps, which disclosed three
                        connecting rooms.
                    "You see, I got tired of living in the woods, and the farmer I
                        boarded with did not understand my complex character. The absurd fellow
                        thought me insanecan you imagine it?"
                    "It's a pity he didn't turn you over to the
                        sheriff," I growled.
                    "Generously spoken! But I came here and hired most of this inn to be
                        near the telegraph office. Though as big a fool as you care to call me I
                        nevertheless look to my buttons. The hook-and-eye people are formidable
                        competitors, and the button may in time become obsoletestranger things have
                        happened. I keep in touch with our main office, and when I don't
                        feel very good I fire somebody. Only this morning I bounced our general  manager by wire for sending me a letter in
                        purple type-writing; I had warned him, you understand, that he was to write
                        to me in black. But it was only a matter of time with that fellow. He
                        entered a bull pup against mine in the Westchester Bench Show last spring
                        and took the ribbon away from me. I really couldn't stand for that.
                        In spite of my glassy splash in the asparagus bed, I'm a man who
                        looks to his dignity, Donovan. Will you smoke?"
                    I lighted my pipe and encouraged him to go on.
                    "How long have you been in this bake-oven?"
                    "I moved in this morningyou are my first pilgrim. I have spent the
                        long hot day in getting settled. I had to throw out the furniture and buy
                        new stuff of the local emporium, where, it depressed me to learn, furniture
                        for the dead is supplied even as for the living. That chair, which I beg you
                        to accept, stood next in the shop to a coffin suitable for a carcass of
                        about your build, old man. But don't let the suggestion annoy you!
                        I read your book on tiger hunting a few years ago with pleasure, and
                        I'm sure you enjoy a charmed life.
                    "I myself," he continued, taking a chair near me and
                        placing his feet in an open window, "am cursed with rugged health.
                        I have quite recovered from those unkind  cuts
                        at the nunnerythanks to your ministrationsand am willing to put on the
                        gloves with you at any time."
                    "You do me great honor; but the affair must wait for a lower
                        temperature."
                    "As you will! It is not like my great and gracious ways to force a
                        fight. Pardon me, but may I inquire for the health of the ladies at Saint
                        What's-hername's?"
                    "They are quite well, thank you."
                    "I am glad to know it;"and his tone lost for the moment its
                        jauntiness. "Henry Holbrook has gone to New York."
                    "Good riddance!" I exclaimed heartily. "And
                        now"
                    "And now if I would only follow suit, everything would be joy plus
                        for you!"
                    He laughed and slapped his knees at my discomfiture, for he had read my
                        thoughts exactly.
                    "You certainly are the only blot on the landscape!"
                    "Quite so. And if I would only go hence the pretty little idyl that
                        is being enacted in the delightful garden, under the eye of a friendly
                        chaperon, would go forward without interruption."
                    He spoke soberly, and I had observed that when he dropped his chaff a note of
                        melancholy crept into his  talk. He folded his
                        arms and went on: "She's a wonderful girl, Donovan.
                        There's no other girl like her in all the wide world. I tell you
                        it's hard for a girl like that to be in her positionthe whole
                        family broken up, and that contemptible father of hers hanging about with
                        his schemes of plunder. It's pitiful, Donovan; it's
                        pitiful!"
                    "It's a cheerless mess. It all came after the bank failure,
                        I suppose."
                    "Practically, though the brothers never got on. You see my governor
                        was bit by their bank failure; and Miss Pat resented the fact that he backed
                        off when stung. But the Gillespies take their medicine; father never
                        squealed, which makes me sore that your Aunt Pat gives me the icy
                        eye."
                    "Their affairs are certainly mixed," I remarked
                        noncommittally.
                    "They are indeed; and I have studied the whole business until my
                        near mind is mussed up, like scrambled eggs. Your own pretty idyl of the
                        nunnery garden adds the note piquante. Cross my palm with
                        gold and I'll tell you of strange things that lie in the future. I
                        have an idea, Donovan; singular though it seem, I've a notion in my
                        head."
                    "Keep it," I retorted, "to prevent a cranial
                        vacuum."
                    
                    "Crushed! Absolutely crushed!" he replied gloomily.
                    "Kick me. I'm only the host."
                    We were silent while the few sounds of the village street droned in. He rose
                        and paced the floor to shake off his mood, and when he sat down he seemed in
                        better spirits.
                    "Holbrook will undoubtedly return," I said.
                    "Yes; there's no manner of doubt about that."
                    "And then there will be more trouble."
                    "Of course."
                    "But I suppose there's no guessing when he will come
                        back."
                    "He will come back as soon as he's spent his
                        money."
                    I felt a delicacy about referring to that transaction on the pier. It was a
                        wretched business, and I now realized that the shame of it was not lost on
                        Gillespie.
                    "How does Henry come to have that Italian scoundrel with
                        him?" I asked after a pause.
                    "He's the skipper of the Stiletto," Gillespie replied readily.
                    "He's a long way from tide-water," I remarked.
                        "A blackguard of just his sort once sailed me around the Italian
                        peninsula in a felucca, and saved me from drowning  way. His
                        heroism was not, however,  wholly
                        disinterested. When we got back to Naples he robbed me of my watch and
                        money-belt and I profited by the transaction, having intended to give him
                        double their value. But there are plenty of farm-boys around the lake who
                        could handle the Stiletto. Henry didn't need a
                        dago expert."
                    The mention of the Italian clearly troubled Gillespie. After a moment he
                        said:
                    "He may be holding on to Henry instead of Henry's holding
                        on to him. Do you see?"
                    "No; I don't."
                    "Well, I have an idea that the dago knows something that's
                        valuable. Last summer Henry went cruising in the Sound with a pretty rotten
                        crowd, poker being the chief diversion. A man died on the boat before they
                        got back to New York. The report was that he fell down a hatchway when he
                        was drunk, but there were some ugly stories in the papers about it. That
                        Italian sailor was one of the crew."
                    "Where is he now?"
                    "Over at Battle Orchard. He knows his man and knows he'll
                        be back. I'm waiting for Henry, too. Helen gave him twenty thousand
                        dollars. The way the market is running he's likely to go broke any
                        day. He plays  stocks like a crazy man, and
                        after he's busted he'll be back on our
                        hands."
                    "It's hard on Miss Pat."
                    "And it's harder on Helen. She's in terror all the
                        time for fear her father will go up against the law and bring further
                        disgrace on the family. There's her Uncle Arthur, a wanderer on the
                        face of the earth for his sins. That was bad enough
                        without the rest of it."
                    "That was greed, too, wasn't it?"
                    "No, just general cussedness. He blew in the Holbrook bank and
                        skipped."
                    These facts I had gathered before, but they seemed of darker significance
                        now, as we spoke of them in the dimly lighted room of the squalid inn. I
                        recalled a circumstance that had bothered me earlier, but which I had never
                        satisfactorily explained, and I determined to sound Gillespie in regard to
                        it.
                    "You told me that Henry Holbrook found his way here ahead of you.
                        How do you account for that?"
                    He looked at me quickly, and rose, again pacing the narrow room.
                    "I don't! I wish I could!"
                    "It's about the last place in the world to attract him.
                        Port Annandale is a quiet resort frequented by western  people only. There's neither hunting nor fishing
                        worth mentioning; and a man doesn't come from New York to Indiana
                        to sail a boat on a thimbleful of water like this lake."
                    "You are quite right."
                    "If Helen Holbrook gave him warning that they were coming
                        here"
                    He wheeled on me fiercely, and laid his hand roughly on my shoulder.
                    "Don't you dare say it! She couldn't have done it!
                        She wouldn't have done it! I tell you I know, independently of her,
                        that he was here before Father Stoddard ever suggested this place to Miss
                        Pat."
                    "Well, you needn't get so hot about it."
                    "And you needn't insinuate that she is not acting honorably
                        in this affair! I should think that after making love to her, as you have
                        been doing, and playing the rle of comforter to Miss Pat, you would have the
                        decency not to accuse her of connivance with Henry Holbrook."
                    "You let your jealousy get the better of your good sense. I have not
                        been making love to Miss Holbrook!" I declared angrily and knew in
                        my heart that I lied.
                    "Well, Irishman," he exclaimed with entire good  humor; "let us not bring up mine
                        host to find us locked in mortal combat."
                    "What the devil did you bring me up here
                        for?" I demanded.
                    "Oh, just to enjoy your society. I get lonesome sometimes. I tell
                        you a man does get lonesome in this world, when he has nothing to lean on
                        but a blooming button factory and a stepmother who flits among the
                        world's expensive sanatoria. I know you have never had
                        'Button, button, who's got the button?' chanted
                        in your ears, but may I ask whether you have ever known the joy of a
                        stepmother? I can see that your answer will be an unregretful
                        negative."
                    He was quite the fool again, and stared at me vacuously.
                    "My stepmother is not the common type of juvenile fiction. She has
                        never attempted during her widowhood to rob the orphan or to poison him.
                        Bless your Irish heart, no! She's a good woman, and rich in her own
                        right, but I couldn't stand her dietary. She's afraid
                        I'm going to die, Donovan! She thinks everybody's going to
                        die. Father died of pneumonia and she said ice-water in the finger-bowl did
                        it, and she wanted to have the butler arrested for murder. She had a new
                        disease for  me every morning. It was worse
                        than being left with a button-works to draw a stepmother like that. She ate
                        nothing but hot water and zweibach herself, and shuddered when I demanded
                        sausage and buckwheat cakes every day. She wept and talked of the duty she
                        owed to my poor dead father; she had promised him, she said, to safeguard my
                        health; and there I was, as strong as an infant industry, weighed a hundred
                        and seventy-six pounds when I was eighteen, and had broken all the prep
                        school records. She made me so nervous talking about her symptoms, and
                        minethat I didn't have!that I began taking my real meals in the
                        gardener's house. But to save her feelings I munched a little toast
                        with her. She caught me one day clearing up a couple of chickens and a mug
                        of bass with the gardener, and it was all over. She had noticed, she said,
                        that I had been coughing of lateI was doing a few cigarettes too many, that
                        was alland wired to New York for doctors. She had all sorts,
                        Donovanalienists and pneumogastric specialists and lung experts.
                    "The people on Strawberry Hill thought there was a medical
                        convention in town. I was kidnapped on the golf course, where I was about to
                        win the eastern Connecticut long-drive cup, and locked up in a dark room  at home for two days while they tested me.
                        They made all the known tests, Donovan. They tested me for diseases that
                        haven't been discovered yet, and for some that have been extinct
                        since the days of Noah. You can see where that put me. I was afraid to fight
                        or sulk for fear the alienists would send me to the madhouse. I was afraid
                        to eat for fear they would think that was a symptom, and
                        every time I asked for food the tapeworm man looked intelligent and began
                        prescribing, while the rest of them were terribly chagrined because they
                        hadn't scored first. The only joy I got out of the rumpus was in
                        hitting one of those alienists a damned hard clip in the ribs, and
                        I'm glad I did it. He was feeling my medulla oblongata at the
                        moment, and as I resent being man-handled I pasted him onehe was a young
                        chap, and fair gameI pasted him one, and then grabbed a suit-case and slid.
                        I stole away in a clam-boat for New Haven, and kept right on up into
                        northern Maine, where I stayed with the Indians until my father's
                        relict went off broken-hearted to Bad Neuheim to drink the waters. And here
                        I am, by the grace of God, in perfect health and in full control of the
                        button market of the world."
                    "You have undoubtedly been sorely tried," I said as  he broke off mournfully. In spite of myself I
                        had been entertained. He was undeniably a fellow of curious humor and with
                        unusual experience of life. He followed me to the street, and as I rode away
                        he called me back as though to impart something of moment.
                    "Did you ever meet Charles Darwin?"
                    "He didn't need me for proof, Buttons."
                    "I wish I might have had one word with him. It's on my mind
                        that he put the monkeys back too far. I should be happier if he had brought
                        them a little nearer up to date. I should feel less lonesome,
                        Irishman."
                    He stopped me again.
                    "Once I had an ambition to find an honest man, Donovan, but I gave
                        it upit's easier to be an honest man than to find one. I give you
                        peace!"
                    I had learned some things from the young button king, but much was still
                        opaque in the affairs of the Holbrooks. The Italian's presence
                        assumed a new significance from Gillespie's story. He had been
                        party to a conspiracy to kill Holbrook, alias Hartridge, on the night of my
                        adventure at the house-boat, and I fell to wondering who had been the
                        shadowy director of that enterprisethe coward who had hung off in the creek
                        and waited for the evil deed to be done.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII
                    THE GATE OF DREAMS
                    
                        
                            And as I muse on Helen's face,
                            Within the firelight's ruddy shine,
                            Its beauty takes an olden grace
                            Like hers whose fairness was divine;
                            The dying embers leap, and lo!
                            Troy wavers vaguely all aglow,
                            And in the north wind leashed without,
                            I hear the conquering Argives' shout;
                            And Helen feeds the flames as long ago!
                        
                        
                            Edward A. U. Valentine.
                        
                    
                    In my heart I was anxious to do justice to Gillespie. Sad it is that we are
                        all so given to passing solemn judgment on trifling testimony! I myself am
                        not impeccable. I should at any time give to the lions a man who uses his
                        thumb as a paper-cutter; for such a one is clearly marked for brutality.
                        Spats I always associate with vanity and a delicate constitution. A man who
                        does not know the art of nursing a pipe's fire, but who has
                        constant recourse to the match-box, should be denied benefit of clergy and
                        the consolations of religion and tobacco. A woman who is so far above the
                        vanities of  this world that she can put on
                        her hat without the aid of the mirror is either reckless or slouchyboth
                        unbecoming enoughor else of an humility that is neither admirable nor
                        desirable. My prejudices rally as to a trumpet-call at the sight of a girl
                        wearing overshoes or nibbling bonbonsthe one suggestive of predatory habits
                        and weak lungs, the other of nervous dyspepsia.
                    The night was fine, and after returning my horse to the stable I continued on
                        to the Glenarm boat-house. I was strolling along, pipe in mouth, and was
                        half-way up the boat-house steps, when a woman shrank away from the veranda
                        rail, where she had been standing, gazing out upon the lake. There was no
                        mistaking her. She was not even disguised to-night, and as I advanced across
                        the little veranda she turned toward me. The lantern over the boat-house
                        door suffused us both as I greeted her.
                    "Pardon me, Miss Holbrook; I'm afraid I have disturbed your
                        meditations," I said. "But if you don't
                        mind"
                    "You have the advantage of being on your own ground," she
                        replied.
                    "I waive all my rights as tenant if you will remain."
                    "It is much nicer here than on St. Agatha's pier; you  can see the lake and the stars better. On the
                        whole," she laughed, "I think I shall stay a moment
                        longer, if you will tolerate me."
                    I brought out some chairs and we sat down by the rail, where we could look
                        out upon the star-sown heavens and the dark floor of stars beneath. The pier
                        lights shone far and near like twinkling jewels, and in the tense silence
                        sounds floated from far aeross the water. A canoeing party drifted idly by,
                        with a faint, listless splash of paddles, while a deep-voiced boy sang, I rise from dreams of thee. A moment later the last bars
                        stole softly across to us, vague and shadowy, as though from the heart of
                        night itself.
                    Helen bent forward with her elbows resting on the rail, her hands clasped
                        under her chin. The lamplight fell full upon her slightly lifted head, and
                        upon her shoulders, over which lay a filmy veil. She hummed the
                        boy's song dreamily for a moment while I watched her. Had she one
                        mood for the day and another for the night? I had last seen her that
                        afternoon after an hour of tennis, at which she was expert, and she had run
                        away through Glenarm gate with a taunt for my defeat; but now the spirit of
                        stars and of all earth's silent things was upon her. I looked twice
                        and thrice at her  clearly outlined profile,
                        at the brow with its point of dark hair, at the hand whereon the emerald was
                        clearly distinguishable, and satisfied myself that there could be no mistake
                        about her.
                    "You grow bold," I said, anxious to hear her voice.
                        "You don't mind the pickets a bit."
                    "No. I'm quite superior to walls and fences. You have heard
                        of those East Indians who appear and disappear through closed doors; well,
                        we'll assume that I had one of those fellows for an ancestor! It
                        will save the trouble of trying to account for my exits and entrances. I
                        will tell you in confidence, Mr. Donovan, that I don't like to be
                        obliged to account for myself!"
                    She sat back in the chair and folded her arms. I had not referred in any way
                        to her transaction with Gillespie; I had never intimated even remotely that
                        I knew of her meeting with the infatuated young fellow on St.
                        Agatha's pier; and I felt that those incidents were ancient
                        history.
                    "It was corking hot this afternoon. I hope you didn't have
                        too much tennis."
                    "No; it was pretty enough fun," she remarked, with so
                        little enthusiasm that I laughed.
                    "You don't seem to recall your victory with particular  pleasure. It seems to me that I am the one to
                        be shy of the subject. How did that score stand?"
                    "I really forgetI honestly do," she laughed.
                    "That's certainly generous; but don't you
                        remember, as we walked along toward the gate after the game, that you
                        said"
                    "Oh, I can't allow that at all! What I said yesterday or
                        to-day is of no importance now. And particularly at night I am likely to be
                        weak-minded, and my memory is poorer then than at any other
                        time."
                    "I am fortunate in having an excellent memory."
                    "For example?"
                    "For example, you are not always the same; you were different this
                        afternoon; and I must go back to our meeting by the seat on the bluff, for
                        the Miss Holbrook of to-night."
                    "That's all in your imagination, Mr. Donovan. Now, if you
                        wanted to prove that I'm really"
                    "Helen Holbrook," I supplied, glad of a chance to speak her
                        name.
                    "If you wanted to prove that I am who I am," she continued,
                        with new animation, as though at last something interested her,
                        "how should you go about it?"
                    "Please ask me something difficult! There is, there  could be, only one woman as fair, as
                        interesting, as wholly charming."
                    "I suppose that is the point at which you usually bow humbly and
                        wait for applause; but I scorn to notice anything so commonplace. If you
                        were going to prove me to be the same person you met at the Annandale
                        station, how should you go about it?"
                    "Well, to be explicit, you walk like an angel."
                    "You are singularly favored in having seen angels walk, Mr. Donovan.
                        There's a popular superstition that they fly. In my own ignorance I
                        can't concede that your point is well taken. What
                        next?"
                    "Your head is like an intaglio wrought when men had keener vision
                        and nimbler fingers than now. With your hair low on your neck, as it is
                        to-night, the picture carries back to a Venetian balcony centuries
                        ago."
                    "That's rather below standard. What else,
                        please?"
                    "And that widow's peakI would risk the direst penalties of
                        perjury in swearing to it alone."
                    She shrugged her shoulders. "You are an observant person. That
                        trifling mark on a woman's forehead is usually considered a
                        disfigurement."
                    "But you know well enough that I did not mention it with such a
                        thought. You know it perfectly well."
                    
                    "No; foolish one," she said mockingly, "the
                        widow's peak can not be denied. I suppose you don't know
                        that the peak sometimes runs in families. My mother had it, and her mother
                        before her."
                    "You are not your mother or your grandmother; so I am not in danger
                        of mistaking you."
                    "Well, what else, please?"
                    "There's the emerald. Miss Pat has the same ring, but you
                        are not Miss Pat. Besides, I have seen you both together."
                    "Still, there are emeralds and emeralds!"
                    "And thenthere are your eyes!"
                    "There are two of them, Mr. Donovan!"
                    "There need be no more to assure light in a needful world, Miss
                        Holbrook."
                    "Good! You really have possibilities!"
                    She struck her palms together in a mockery of applause and laughed at me.
                    "To a man who is in love everything is possible," I
                        dared.
                    "The Celtic temperament is very susceptible. You have undoubtedly
                        likened many eyes to the glory of the heavens."
                    "I swear"
                    
                    "Swear not at all!"
                    "Then I won't!"and we laughed and were silent
                        while the water rippled in the reeds, the insects wove their woof of sound
                        and ten struck musically from St. Agatha's.
                    "I must leave you."
                    "If you go you leave an empty world behind."
                    "Oh, that was pretty!"
                    "Thank you!"
                    "Conceited! I wasn't approving your remark, but that meteor
                        that flashed across the sky and dropped into the woods away out
                        yonder."
                    "Alas! I have fallen farther than the meteor and struck the earth
                        harder."
                    "You deserved it," she said, rising and drawing the veil
                        about her throat.
                    "My lack of conceit has always been my undoing; I am the humblest
                        man alive. You are adorable," I said, "if that's
                        the answer."
                    "It isn't the answer! If mere stars do this to you, what
                        would you be in moonlight?"
                    As we stood facing each other I was aware of some new difference in her.
                        Perhaps her short outing skirt of dark blue had changed her; and yet in our
                        tramps  through the woods and our excursions
                        in the canoe she had worn the same or similar costumes. She hesitated a
                        moment, leaning against the railing and tapping the floor with her boot;
                        then she said gravely, half questioningly, as though to herself:
                    "He has gone away; you are quite sure that he has gone
                        away?"
                    "Your father is probably in New York," I answered,
                        surprised at the question. "I do not expect him back at
                        once."
                    "If he should come back" she began.
                    "He will undoubtedly return; there is no debating
                        that."
                    "If he comes back there will be trouble, worse than anything that
                        has happened. You can't understand what his return will mean to
                        usto me."
                    "You must not worry about that; you must trust me to take care of
                        that when he comes. 'Sufficient unto the day' must be your
                        watchword. I saw Gillespie tonight."
                    "Gillespie?" she repeated with unfeigned surprise.
                    "That was capitally acted!" I laughed. "I wish I
                        knew that he meant nothing more to you than that!" I added
                        seriously.
                    
                    She colored, whether with anger or surprise at my swift change of tone, I did
                        not know. Then she said very soberly:
                    "Mr. Gillespie is nothing to me whatever."
                    "I thank you for that!"
                    "Thank me for nothing, Mr. Donovan. And now good night. You are not
                        to follow me"
                    "Oh, surely to the gate!"
                    "Not even to the gate. My ways are very mysterious. By day I am one
                        person; by night quite another. And if you should follow me"
                    "To my own gate!" I pleaded. "It's only
                        decent hospitality!" I urged.
                    "Not even to the Gate of Dreams!"
                    "But in trying to get back to the school you have to pass the
                        guards; you will fail at that some time!"
                    "No! I whisper an incantation, and lo! they fall asleep upon their
                        spears. And I must ask you"
                    "Keep asking, for to ask you must stay!"
                    "please, when I meet you in daytime do not refer to anything that we
                        may say when we meet at night. You have proved me at every pointeven to this
                        spot of ink on my forehead," and she put her forefinger upon the
                        peak. "I am Helen Holbrook; but aswhat shall I  say?oh, yes!" she went on lightly"as a
                        psychological fact, I am very different at night from anything I ever am in
                        daylight. And to-morrow morning, when you meet me with Aunt Pat in the
                        garden, if you should refer to this meeting I shall never appear to you
                        again, not even through the Gate of Dreams. Good night!"
                    "Good night!"
                    I clasped her hand for an instant, and she met my eyes with a laughing
                        challenge.
                    "When shall I see you againthis you that is so different from the
                        you of daylight?"
                    She caught her hand away and turned to go, but paused at the steps.
                    "When the new moon hangs, like a little feather, away out yonder, I
                        shall be looking at it from the stone seat on the bluff; do you think you
                        can remember?"
                    She vanished away into the wood toward St. Agatha's. I started to
                        follow, but paused, remembering my promise, and sat down and yielded myself
                        to the thought of her. Practical questions of how she managed to slip out of
                        St. Agatha's vexed me for a moment; but in my elation of spirit I
                        dismissed them quickly enough. I would never again entertain an evil thought
                        of her; the money she had taken from Gillespie I would in some  way return to him and make an end of any
                        claim he might assert against her by reason of that help. And I resolved to
                        devote myself diligently to the business of protecting her from her father.
                        I was even impatient for him to return and resume his blackguardly practice
                        of intimidating two helpless women, that I might deal with him in the spirit
                        of his own despicable actions.
                    My heart was heavy as I thought of him, but I lighted my pipe and found at
                        once a gentler glory in the stars. Then as I stared out upon the lake I saw
                        a shadow gliding softly away from the little promontory where St.
                        Agatha's pier lights shone brightly. It was a canoe, I should have
                        known from its swift steady flight if I had not seen the paddler's
                        arm raised once, twice, until darkness fell upon the tiny argosy like a
                        cloak. I ran out on the pier and stared after it, but the silence of the
                        lake was complete. Then I crossed the strip of wood to St.
                        Agatha's, and found Ijima and the gardener faithfully patrolling
                        the grounds.
                    "Has any one left the buildings to-night?"
                    "No one."
                    "Sister Margaret hasn't been outor any one?"
                    "No one, str. Did you hear anything, sir?"
                    "Nothing, Ijima. Good night."
                    
                    I wrote a telegram to an acquaintance in New York who knows everybody, and
                        asked him to ascertain whether Henry Holbrook, of Stamford, was in New York.
                        This I sent to Annandale, and thereafter watched the stars from the terrace
                        until they slipped into the dawn, fearful lest sleep might steal away my
                        memories and dreams of the night.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV
                    BATTLE ORCHARD
                    
                        We crossed the lake from the south and about nightfall came to the small
                            island called Battle Orchard, which is so named by the American settlers
                            from the peach, apple and other trees planted there about 1740 (so many
                            have told me) by Franois Belot, a French voyageur who had crossed from
                            the Ouabache on his way from Quebec to Post Vincennes near the Ohio,
                            and, finding the beaver plentiful, brought there his family. And here
                            the Indians laid siege to him; and here he valiantly defended the ford
                            on the west side of the little isle for three days, killing many savages
                            before they slew him.
                        
                            The Relation of Captain Abel Tucker.
                        
                    
                    When I called at St. Agatha's the following morning the maid told me
                        that Miss Pat was ill and that Miss Helen asked to be excused. I walked
                        restlessly about the grounds until luncheon, thinking Helen might appear;
                        and later determined to act on an impulse, with which I had trifled for
                        several days, to seek the cottage on the Tippecanoe and satisfy myself of
                        Holbrook's absence. A sharp shower had cooled the air, and I took
                        the canoe for greater convenience in running into the  shallow creek. I know nothing comparable to paddling as a
                        lifter of the spirit, and with my arms and head bared and a cool breeze at
                        my back I was soon skimming along as buoyant of heart as the responsive
                        canoe beneath me. It was about four o'clock when I dipped my way
                        into the farther lake, and as the water broadened before me at the little
                        strait I saw the Stiletto lying quietly at anchor off the
                        eastern shore of Battle Orchard. I drew close to observe her the better, but
                        there were no signs of life on board, and I paddled to the western side of
                        the island.
                    It had already occurred to me that Holbrook might have another hiding-place
                        than the cottage at Red Gate, where I had talked with him, and the island
                        seemed a likely spot for it. I ran my canoe on the pebbly beach and climbed
                        the bank. The island was covered with a tangle of oak and maple, with a few
                        lordly sycamores towering above all. I followed a path that led through the
                        underbrush and was at once shut in from the lake. The trail bore upward and
                        I soon came upon a small clearing about an acre in extent that had once been
                        tilled, but it was now prempted by weeds as high as my head. Beyond lay an
                        ancient orchard, chiefly of appletrees, and many hoary veterans stood
                        faithful to the  brave hand that had marshaled
                        them there. (Every orchard is linked to the Hesperides and every apple waits
                        for Atalantaif not for Eve!) I stooped to pick a wild-flower and found an
                        arrow-head lying beside it.
                    Fumbling the arrow-head in my fingers, I passed on to a log cabin hidden away
                        in the orchard. It was evidently old. The mud chinking had dropped from the
                        logs in many places, and the stone chimney was held up by a sapling. I
                        approached warily, remembering that if this were Holbrook's camp
                        and he had gone away he had probably left the Italian to look after the
                        yacht, which could be seen from the cabin door. I made a circuit of the
                        cabin without seeing any signs of habitation, and was about to enter by the
                        front door, when I heard the swish of branches in the underbrush to the east
                        and dropped into the grass.
                    In a moment the Italian appeared, carrying a pair of oars over his shoulder.
                        He had evidently just landed, as the blades were dripping. He threw them
                        down by the cabin door, came round to the western window, drew out the pin
                        from an iron staple with which it was fastened, and thrust his head in. He
                        was greeted with a howl and a loud demand of some sort, to which he replied
                        in monosyllables, and after several minutes of this parley  I caught a fragment of dialogue which seemed
                        to be final in the subject under discussion.
                    "Let me out or it will be the worse for you; let me out, I
                        say!"
                    "My boss he sometime come back; then you get out it,
                        maybe."
                    With this deliverance, accomplished with some difficulty, the Italian turned
                        away, going to the rear of the cabin for a pail with which he trudged off
                        toward the lake. He had not closed the window and would undoubtedly return
                        in a few minutes; so I waited until he was out of sight, then rose and
                        crawled through the grass to the opening.
                    I looked in upon a bare room whose one door opened inward, and I did not for
                        a moment account for the voice. Then something stirred in the farther
                        corner, and I slowly made out the figure of a man tied hand and foot, lying
                        on his back in a pile of grass and leaves.
                    "You ugly dago! you infernal pirate" he bawled.
                    There was no mistaking that voice, and I now saw two legs clothed in white
                        duck that belonged, I was sure, to Gillespie. My head and shoulders filled
                        the window and so darkened the room that the prisoner thought his jailer had
                        come back to torment him.
                    
                    "Shut up, Gillespie," I muttered. "This is
                        Donovan. That fellow will be back in a minute. What can I do for
                        you?"
                    "What can you do for me?" he spluttered. "Oh,
                        nothing, thanks! I wouldn't have you put yourself out for anything
                        in the world. It's nice in here, and if that fellow kills me
                        I'll miss a great deal of the poverty and hardship of this sinful
                        world. But take your time, Irishman. Being tied by the legs like a calf is
                        bully when you get used to it."
                    In turning over, the better to level his ironies at me, he had stirred up the
                        dust in the straw so that he sneezed and coughed in a ridiculous fashion. As
                        I did not move he added:
                    "You come in here and cut these strings and I'll tell you
                        something nice some day."
                    I ran round to the front door, kicked it open and passed through a square
                        room that contained a fireplace, a camp bed, a trunk, and a table littered
                        with old newspapers and a few books. I found Gillespie in the adjoining
                        room, cut his thongs and helped him to his feet.
                    "Where is your boat?" he demanded.
                    "On the west side."
                    "Then we're in for a scrap. That beggar goes down  there for water; and he'll see that
                        there's another man on the island. I had a gun when I
                        came," he added mournfully.
                    He stamped his feet and threshed himself with his arms to restore
                        circulation, then we went into the larger room, where he dug his own
                        revolver from the trunk and pointed to a shot-gun in the corner.
                    "You'd better get that. This fellow has only a knife in his
                        clothes. He'll be back on the run when he sees your
                        canoe." And we heard on the instant a man running toward the hut. I
                        opened the breech of the shotgun to see whether it was loaded.
                    "Well, how do you want to handle the situation?" I
                        asked.
                    He had his eye on the window and threw up his revolver and let go.
                    "Your pistol makes a howling noise, Gillespie. Please don't
                        do that again. The smoke is disagreeable."
                    "You are quite right; and shooting through glass is always
                        unfortunate! there's bound to be a certain deflection before the
                        bullet strikes. You see if I were not a fool I should be a
                        philosopher."
                    "It isn't nice here; we'd better
                        bolt."
                    "I'm as hungry as a sea-serpent," he said,
                        watching  the window. "And I am quite
                        desperate when I miss my tea."
                    I stood before the open door and he watched the window. We were both talking
                        to cover our serious deliberations. Our plight was not so much a matter for
                        jesting as we wished to make it appear to each other. I had experienced one
                        struggle with the Italian at the house-boat on the Tippecanoe and was not
                        anxious to get within reach of his knife again. I did not know how he had
                        captured Gillespie, or what mischief that amiable person had been engaged
                        in, but inquiries touching this matter must wait.
                    "Are you ready? We don't want to shoot unless we have to.
                        Now when I say go, jump for the open."
                    He limped a little from the cramping of his legs, but crossed over to me
                        cheerfully enough. His white trousers were much the worse for contact with
                        the cabin floor, and his shirt hung from his shoulders in ribbons.
                    "My stomach bids me haste; I'm going to eat a beefsteak two
                        miles thick if I ever get back to New York. Are you waiting?"
                    We were about to spring through the outer door, when the door at the rear
                        flew open with a bang and the sailor landed on me with one leap. I went down
                        with  a thump and a crack of my head on the
                        floor that sickened me. The gun was under my legs, and I remember that my
                        dazed wits tried to devise means for getting hold of it. As my senses
                        gradually came round I was aware of a great conflict about me and over me.
                        Gillespie was engaged in a hand-to-hand struggle with the sailor and the
                        cabin shook with their strife. The table went down with a crash, and
                        Gillespie seemed to be having the best of it; then the Italian was afoot
                        again, and the clenched swaying figures crashed against the trunk at the
                        farther end of the room. And there they fought in silence, save for the
                        scraping of their feet on the puncheon floor. I felt a slight nausea from
                        the smash my head had got, but I began crawling across the floor toward the
                        struggling men. It was growing dark, and they were knit together against the
                        cabin wall like a single monstrous, swaying figure.
                    My stomach was giving a better account of itself, and I got to my knees and
                        then to my feet. I was within a yard of the wavering shadow and could
                        distinguish Gillespie by his white trousers as he wrenched free and flung
                        the Italian away from him; and in that instant of freedom I heard the dull
                        impact of Gillespie's fist in the brute's face. As the
                        sailor went down I threw myslef  full length
                        upon him; but for the moment at least he was out of business, and before I
                        had satisfied myself that I had firmly grasped him, Gillespie, blowing hard,
                        was kneeling beside me, with a rope in his hands.
                    "I think," he panted, "I should like champignon
                        sauce with that steak, Donovan. And I should like my potatoes lyonnaisethe
                        pungent onion is a spurring tonic. That will do, thanks, for the arms. Get
                        off his legs and I'll see what I can do for them. You
                        oughtn't to have cut that rope, my boy. You might have known that
                        we were going to need it. My father taught me in my youth never to cut a
                        string. I want the pirate's knife for a souvenir. I kicked it out
                        of his hand when you went bumpety-bumpety. How's your
                        head?"
                    "I still have it. Let's get you outside and have a look at
                        you. You think he didn't land with the knife?"
                    "Not a bit of it. He nearly squeezed the life out of me two or three
                        times, though. What's that?"
                    "He gave me a jab with his sticker when he made that flying leap and
                        I guess I'm scratched."
                    Gillespie opened my shirt and disclosed a scratch across my ribs downward
                        from the left collar bone. The first jab had struck the bone, but the
                        subsequent slash had left a nasty red ine.
                    
                    Gillespie swore softly in the strange phrases that he affected while he
                        tended my injury. My head ached and the nausea came back occasionally. I sat
                        down in the grass while Gillespie found the sailor's pail and went
                        to fetch water. He found some towels in the hut and between his droll
                        chaffing and his deft ministrations I soon felt fit again.
                    "Well, what shall we do with the dago?" he asked, rubbing
                        his arms and legs briskly.
                    "We ought to give him to the village constable."
                    "That's the law of it, but not the common sense. The lords
                        of justice would demand to know all the whys and wherefores, and the Italian
                        consul at Chicago would come down and make a fuss, and the man behind the
                        dago would lay low and no good would come."
                    "When will Holbrook be back?that's the
                        question."
                    "Well, the market has been very feverish and my guess is that he
                        won't last many days. He had a weakness for Industrials, as I
                        remember, and they've been very groggy. What he wants is his
                        million from Miss Pat, and he has his own chivalrous notions of collecting
                        it."
                    We decided finally to leave the man free, but to take away his boat.
                        Gillespie was disposed to make light of  the
                        whole affair, now that we had got off with our lives. We searched the hut
                        for weapons and ammunition, and having collected several knives and a belt
                        and revolver from the trunk, we poured water on the Italian, carried him
                        into the open and loosened the ropes with which Gillespie had tied him.
                    The man glared at us fiercely and muttered incoherently for a few minutes,
                        but after Gillespie had dashed another pail of water on him he stood up and
                        was tame enough.
                    "Tell him," said Gillespie, "that we shall not
                        kill him to-day. Tell him that this being Tuesday we shall spare his
                        lifethat we never kill any one on Tuesday, but that we shall come back
                        to-morrow and make shark meat of him. Assure him that we are terrible
                        villains and man-hunters"
                    "When will your employer return?" I asked the sailor.
                    He shook his head and declared that he did not know.
                    "How long did he hire you for?"
                    "For all summer." He pointed to the sloop, and I got it out
                        of him that he had been hired in New York to come to the lake and sail
                        it.
                    "In the creek up yonder," I said, pointing toward  the Tippecanoe, "you tried to kill
                        me. There was another man with you. Who was he?"
                    "That was my boss," he replied reluctantly, though his
                        English was clear enough.
                    "What is your employer's name?" I demanded.
                    "Holbrook. I sail his boat, the Stiletto, over
                        there," he replied.
                    "But it was not he who was with you on the house-boat in the creek.
                        Mr. Holbrook was not there. Do not lie to me. Who was the other man that
                        wanted you to kill Holbrook?"
                    He appeared mystified, and Gillespie, to whom I had told nothing of my
                        encounter at the boat-maker's, looked from one to the other of us
                        with a puzzled expression on his face.
                    "All he knows is that he's hired to sail a boat and,
                        incidentally, stick people with his knife," said Gillespie in
                        disgust. "We can do nothing till Holbrook comes back;
                        let's be going."
                    We finally gathered up the Italian's oars, and, carrying the
                        captured arms, went to the east shore, where we put off in
                        Gillespie's rowboat, trailing the Italian's boat asters.
                        The sailor followed us to the shore and watched our departure in silence. We
                        swung round to the western  shore and got my
                        canoe, and there again, the Italian sullenly watched us.
                    "He's not so badly marooned," said Gillespie.
                        "He can walk out over here."
                    "No, he'll wait for Holbrook. He's stumped now and
                        doesn't understand us. He has exhausted his orders and is sick and
                        tired of his job. A salt-water sailor loses his snap when he gets as far
                        inland as this. He'll demand his money when Holbrook turns up and
                        clear out of this."
                    Gillespie took the oars himself, insisting that I must have a care for the
                        slash across my chest, and so, towing the canoe and rowboat, we turned
                        toward Glenarm. The Italian still watched us from the shore, standing beside
                        a tall sycamore on a little promontory as though to follow us as far as
                        possible.
                    We passed close to the Stiletlo to get a better look at
                        her. She was the trimmest sailing craft in those waters, and the largest,
                        being, I should say, thirty-seven feet on the water-line, sloop-rigged, and
                        with a cuddy large enough to house the skipper. As we drew alongside I stood
                        up the better to examine her, and the Italian, still watching us intently
                        from the island, cried out warningly.
                    
                    "He should fly the signal, 'Owner not on
                        board,'" remarked Gillespie as we pushed off and continued
                        on our way.
                    The sun was low in the western wood as we passed out into the larger lake.
                        Gillespie took soundings with his oar in the connecting channel, and did not
                        touch bottom.
                    "You wouldn't suppose the Stiletto could
                        get through here; it's as shallow as a sauce-pan; but
                        there's plenty and to spare," he said, as he resumed
                        rowing.
                    "But it takes a cool hand" I began, then paused abruptly;
                        for there, several hundred yards away, a little back from the western shore,
                        against a strip of wood through which the sun burned redly, I saw a man and
                        a woman slowly walking back and forth. Gillespie, laboring steadily at the
                        oars, seemed not to see them, and I made no sign. My heart raced for a
                        moment as I watched them pace back and forth, for there was something
                        familiar in both figures. I knew that I had seen them before and talked with
                        them; I would have sworn that the man was Henry Holbrook and the girl Helen;
                        and I was aware that when they turned, once, twice, at the ends of their
                        path, the girl made some delay; and  when they
                        went on she was toward the lake, as though shielding the man from our
                        observation. The last sight I had of them the girl stood with her back to
                        us, pointing into the west. Then she put up her hand to her bare head as
                        though catching a loosened strand of hair; and the wind blew back her skirts
                        like those of the Winged Victory. The two were etched sharply against the
                        fringe of wood and bathed in the sun's glow. A second later the
                        trees stood there alertly, with the golden targe of the sun shining like a
                        giant's shield beyond; but they had gone, and my heart was numb
                        with foreboding, or lone-liness, and heavy with the weight of things I did
                        not understand.
                    Gillespie tugged hard with the burden of the tow at his back. I will not deny
                        that I was uncomfortable as I thought of his own affair with Helen Holbrook.
                        He had, by any fair judgment, a prior claim. Her equivocal attitude toward
                        him and her inexplicable conduct toward her aunt were, I knew, appearing
                        less and less heinous to me as the days passed; and I was miserably
                        conscious that my own duty to Miss Patricia lay less heavily upon me.
                    I was glad when we reached Glenarm pier, where we found Ijima hanging out the
                        lamps. He gave me a telegram.  It was from my
                        New York acquaintance and read:
                    Holbrook left here two days ago; destination unknown.
                    "Come, Gillespie; you are to dine with me," I said, when he
                        had read the telegram; and so we went up to the house together.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV
                    I UNDERTAKE A COMMISSION
                    
                        
                            Sweet is every sound,
                            Sweeter thy voice, but every sound is sweet;
                            Myriads of rivulets hurrying thro' the lawn,
                            The moan of doves in immemorial elms,
                            And murmuring of innumerable bees.
                        
                        
                            Tennyson.
                        
                    
                    Gillespie availed himself of my wardrobe to replace his rags, and appeared in
                        the library clothed and in his usual state of mind on the stroke of
                        seven.
                    "You should have had the doctor out, Donovan. Being stuck
                        isn't so funny, and you will undoubtedly die of blood-poisoning.
                        Every one does nowadays."
                    "I shall disappoint you. Ijima and I between us have stuck me
                        together like a cracked plate. And it is not well to publish our troubles to
                        the world. If I called the village doctor he would kill his horse
                        circulating the mysterious tidings. Are you satisfied?"
                    "Quite so. You're a man after my own heart,
                        Donovan."
                    
                    We had reached the dining-room and stood by our chairs.
                    "I should like," he said, taking up his cocktail glass,
                        "to propose a truce between us"
                    "In the matter of a certain lady?"
                    "Even so! On the honor of a fool," he said, and touched his
                        glass to his lips. "And may the best man win," he added,
                        putting down the glass unemptied.
                    He was one of those comfortable people with whom it is possible to sit in
                        silence; but after intervals in which we found nothing to say he would, with
                        exaggerated gravity, make some utterly inane remark. Tonight his mind was
                        more agile than ever, his thoughts leaping nimbly from crag to crag, like a
                        mountain goat. He had traveled widely and knew the ways of many cities; and
                        of American political characters, whose names were but vaguely known to me,
                        he discoursed with delightful intimacy; then his mind danced away to a tour
                        he had once made with a company of acrobats whose baggage he had released
                        from the grasping hands of a rural sheriff.
                    "What," he asked presently, "is as sad as being
                        deceived in a person you have admired and trusted? I knew a fellow who was
                        professor of something in a  blooming college,
                        and who was so poor that he had to coach delinquent preps in summer-time
                        instead of getting a vacation. I had every confidence in that fellow. I
                        thought he was all right, and so I took him up into Maine with mejust the
                        two of usand hired an Indian to run our camp, and everything pointed to
                        plus. Well, I always get stung when I try to be good."
                    He placed his knife and fork carefully across his plate and sighed
                        deeply.
                    "What was the matter? Did he bore you with philosophy?"
                    "No such luck. That man was weak-minded on the subject of
                        domesticating prairie-dogs. You may shoot me if that isn't the
                        fact. There he was, a prize-winner and a fellow of his university, and a
                        fine scholar who edited Greek text-books, with that thing on his mind. He
                        held that the daily example of the happy home life of the prairie-dog would
                        tend to ennoble all mankind and brighten up our family altars. Think of
                        being lost in the woods with a man with such an idea, and of having to sleep
                        under the same blanket with him! It rained most of the time so we had to sit
                        in the tent, and he never let up. He got so bad that he would wake me up in
                        the night to talk prairie-dog."
                    
                    "It must have been trying," I agreed. "What was
                        your solution, Buttons?"
                    "I moved outdoors and slept with the Indian. Your salad dressing is
                        excellent, Donovan, though personally I lean to more of the paprika. But let
                        us go back a bit to the Holbrooks. Omitting the lady, there are certain
                        points about which we may as well agree. I am not so great a fool but that I
                        can see that this state of things can not last forever. Henry is broken down
                        from drink and brooding over his troubles, and about ready for close
                        confinement in a brick building with barred windows."
                    "Then I'm for capturing him and sticking him away in a safe
                        place."
                    "That's the Irish of it, if you will pardon me; but
                        it's not the Holbrook of it. A father tucked away in a private
                        madhouse would not sound well to the daughter. I advise you not to suggest
                        that to Helen. I generously aid your suit to that extent. We are both
                        playing for Helen's gratitude; that's the flat of the
                        matter."
                    "I was brought into this business to help Miss Pat," I
                        declared, though a trifle lamely. Gillespie grinned sardonically.
                    "Be it far from me to interfere with your plans, methods or hopes.
                        We both have the conceit of our wisdom!"
                    
                    "There may be something in that."
                    "But it was decent of you to get me out of that Italian's
                        clutches this afternoon. When I went over there I thought I might find Henry
                        Holbrook and pound some sense into him; and he's about due, from
                        that telegram. If Miss Pat won't soften her heart I'd
                        better buy him off," he added reflectively.
                    We walked the long length of the hall into the library, and had just lighted
                        our cigars when the butler sought me.
                    "Beg pardon, the telephone, sir."
                    My distrust of the telephone is so deep-seated that I had forgotten the
                        existence of the instrument in Glenarm house, where, I now learned, it was
                        tucked away in the butler's pantry for the convenience of the
                        house-keeper in ordering supplies from the village. After a
                        moment's parley a woman's voice addressed me distinctlya
                        voice that at once arrested and held all my thoughts. My replies were, I
                        fear, somewhat breathless and wholly stupid.
                    "This is Rosalind; do you remember me?"
                    "Yes; I remember; I remember nothing else!" I declared.
                        Ijima had closed the door behind me, and I was alone with the voicea voice
                        that spoke to me of the  summer night, and of
                        low winds murmuring across starry waters.
                    "I am going away. The Rosalind you remember is going a long way from
                        the lake, and you will never see her again."
                    "But you have an engagement; when the new moon"
                    "But the little feather of the new moon is under a cloud, and you
                        can not see it; and Rosalind must always be Helen now."
                    "But this won't do, Rosalind. Ours was more than an
                        engagement; it was a solemn compact," I insisted.
                    "Oh, not so very solemn!" she laughed. "And then
                        you have the other girl that isn't just methe girl of the daylight,
                        that you ride and sail with and play tennis with."
                    "Oh, I haven't her; I don't want her"
                    "Treacherous man! Volatile Irishman!"
                    "Marvelous, adorable Rosalind!"
                    "That will do, Mr. Donovan"and then with a quick change of
                        tone she asked abruptly:
                    "You are not afraid of trouble, are you?"
                    "I live for nothing else!"
                    "You are not so pledged to the Me you play tennis with that you can
                        not serve Rosalind if she asks it?"
                    
                    "No; you have only to ask. But I must see you once moreas
                        Rosalind!"
                    "Stop being silly, and listen carefully." And I thought I
                        heard a sob in the moment's silence before she spoke.
                    "I want you to go, at once, to the house of the boatmaker on
                        Tippecanoe Creek; go as fast as you can!" she implored.
                    "To the house of the man who calls himself Hartridge, the
                        canoe-maker, at Red Gate?"
                    "Yes; you must see that no harm comes to him tonight."
                    There was no mistaking now the sobs that broke her sentences, and my mind was
                        so a-whirl with questions that I stammered incoherently.
                    "Will you gowill you go?" she demanded in a voice so low
                        and broken that I scarcely heard.
                    "Yes, at once," and the voice vanished, and while I still
                        stood staring at the instrument the operator at Annandale blandly asked me
                        what number I wanted. The thread had snapped and the spell was broken. I
                        stared helplessly at the thing of wood and wire for half a minute; then the
                        girl's appeal and my promise rose in my mind distinct from all
                        else. I ordered my horse before returning to the library, where Gillespie
                        was coolly  turning over the magazines on the
                        table. I was still dazed, and something in my appearance caused him to
                        stare.
                    "Been seeing a ghost?" he asked.
                    "No; just hearing one," I replied.
                    I had yet to offer some pretext for leaving him, and as I walked the length
                        of the room he stifled a yawn, his eyes falling upon the line of French
                        windows. I spoke of the heat of the night, but he did not answer, and I
                        turned to find his gaze fixed upon one of the open windows.
                    "What is it, man?" I demanded.
                    He crossed the room in a leap and was out upon the terrace, peering down upon
                        the shrubbery beneath.
                    "What's the row?" I demanded.
                    "Didn't you see it?"
                    "No."
                    "Then it wasn't anything. I thought I saw the dago, if you
                        must know. He'll probably be around looking for us."
                    "Humph, you're a little nervous, that's all.
                        You'll stay here all night, of course?" I asked, without,
                        I fear, much enthusiasm.
                    He grinned.
                    
                    "Don't be so cordial! If you'll send me into town
                        I'll be off."
                    I had just ordered the dog-cart when the butler appeared.
                    "If you please, sir, Sister Margaret wishes to use our telephone,
                        sir. St. Agatha's is out of order."
                    I spoke to the Sister as she left the house, half as a matter of courtesy,
                        half to make sure of her. The telephone at St. Agatha's had been
                        out of order for several days, she said; and I walked with her to St.
                        Agatha's gate, talking of the weather, the garden and the Holbrook
                        ladies, who were, she said, quite well.
                    Thereafter, when I had despatched Gillespie to the village in the dog-cart, I
                        got into my leggings, reflecting upon the odd circumstance that Helen
                        Holbrook had been able to speak to me over the telephone a few minutes
                        before, using an instrument that had, by Sister Margaret's
                        testimony, been out of commission for several days. The girl had undoubtedly
                        slipped away from St. Agatha's and spoken to me from some other
                        house in the neighborhood; but this was a matter of little importance, now
                        that I had undertaken her commission.
                    The chapel clock chimed nine as I gained the road, and I walked my horse to
                        scan St. Agatha's windows  through
                        vistas that offered across the foliage. And there, by the open window of her
                        aunt's sitting-room, I saw Helen Holbrook reading. A table-lamp at
                        her side illumined her slightly bent head; and, as though aroused by my
                        horse's quick step in the road, she rose and stood framed against
                        the light, with the soft window draperies fluttering about her.
                    I spoke to my horse and galloped toward Red Gate.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI
                    AN ODD AFFAIR AT RED GATE
                    
                        Brother, you have a vice of mercy in you, Which better fits a lion than a
                            man.
                        
                            Troilus and Cressida.
                        
                    
                    As I rode through Port Annandale the lilting strains of a waltz floated from
                        the casino, and I caught a glimpse of the lake's cincture of
                        lights. My head was none too clear from its crack on the cabin floor, and my
                        chest was growing sore and stiff from the slash of the Italian's
                        knife; but my spirits were high, and my ears rang with memories of the
                        Voice. Helen had given me a commission, and every fact of my life faded into
                        insignificance compared to this. The cool night air rushing by refreshed me.
                        I was eager for the next turn of the wheel, and my curiosity ran on to the
                        boatmaker's house.
                    I came now to a lonely sweep, where the road ran through a heavy woodland,
                        and the cool, moist air of the forest rose round me. The lake, I knew, lay
                        close at hand,  and the Hartridge cottage was
                        not, as I reckoned my distances, very far ahead. I had drawn in my horse to
                        consider the manner of my approach to the boat-maker's, and was
                        jogging along at an easy trot when a rifle-shot rang out on my left, from
                        the direction of the creek, and my horse shied sharply and plunged on at a
                        wild gallop. He ran several hundred yards before I could check him, and then
                        I turned and rode slowly back, peering into the forest's black
                        shadow for the foe. I paused and waited, with the horse dancing crazily
                        beneath me, but the woodland presented an inscrutable front. I then rode on
                        to the unfenced strip of wood where I had left my horse before.
                    I began this narrative with every intention of telling the whole truth
                        touching my adventures at Annandale, and I can not deny that the shot from
                        the wood had again shaken my faith in Helen Holbrook. She had sent me to the
                        Tippecanoe on an errand of her own choosing, and I had been fired on from
                        ambush near the place to which she had sent me. I fear that my tower of
                        faith that had grown so tall and strong shook on its foundations; but once
                        more I dismissed my doubts, just as I had dismissed other doubts and
                        misgivings about her. My fleeting glimpse of her in the window  of St. Agatha's less than an hour
                        before flashed back upon me, and the tower touched the stars, steadfast and
                        serene again.
                    I strode on toward Red Gate with my revolver in the side pocket of my Norfolk
                        jacket. A buckboard filled with young folk from the summer colony passed me,
                        and then the utter silence of the country held the world. In a moment I had
                        reached the canoe-maker's cottage and entered the gate. I went at
                        once to the front door and knocked. I repeated my knock several times, but
                        there was no answer. The front window-blinds were closed tight.
                    It was now half-past ten and I walked round the dark house with the sweet
                        scents of the garden rising about me and paused again at the top of the
                        steps leading to the creek.
                    The house-boat was effectually screened by shrubbery, and I had descended
                        half a dozen steps before I saw a light in the windows. It occurred to me
                        that as I had undoubtedly been sent to Red Gate for some purpose, I should
                        do well not to defeat it by any clumsiness of my own; so I proceeded slowly,
                        pausing several times to observe the lights below. I heard the Tippecanoe
                        slipping by with the subdued murmur of water at night;  and then a lantern flashed on deck and I heard voices. Some
                        one was landing from a boat in the creek. This seemed amiable enough, as the
                        lantern-bearer helped a man in the boat to clamber to the platform, and from
                        the open door of the shop a broad shaft of light shone brightly upon the two
                        men. The man with the lantern was Holbrook, alias
                        Hartridge, beyond a doubt; the other was a stranger. Holbrook caught the
                        painter of the boat and silently made it fast.
                    "Now," he said, "come in."
                    They crossed the deck and entered the boat-maker's shop, and I crept
                        down where I could peer in at an open port-hole. Several brass ship-lamps of
                        an odd pattern lighted the place brilliantly, and I was surprised to note
                        the unusual furnishings of the room. The end nearest my port-hole was a
                        shop, with a carpenter's bench with litter all about that spoke of
                        practical use. Two canoes in process of construction lay across frames
                        contrived for the purpose, and overhead was a rack of lumber hung away to
                        dry. The men remained at the farther end of the houseit was, I should say,
                        about a hundred feet longwhich, without formal division, was fitted as a
                        sitting-room, with a piano in one corner, and a long settle against the
                        wall. In the center was a table littered with 
                        books and periodicals; and a woman's sewing-basket, interwoven with
                        bright ribbons, gave a domestic touch to the place. On the inner wall hung a
                        pair of foils and masks. Pictures from illustrated journalsstriking heads or
                        outdoor sceneswere pinned here and there.
                    The new-comer stared about, twirling a Tweed cap nervously in his hands,
                        while Holbrook carefully extinguished the lantern and put it aside. His
                        visitor was about fifty, taller than he, and swarthy, with a grayish
                        mustache, and hair white at the temples. His eyes were large and dark, but
                        even with the length of the room between us I marked their restlessness; and
                        now that he spoke it was in a succession of quick rushes of words that were
                        diffficult to follow.
                    Holbrook pushed a chair toward the stranger and they faced each other for a
                        moment, then with a shrug of his shoulders the older man sat down. Holbrook
                        was in white flannels, with a blue scarf knotted in his shirt collar. He
                        dropped into a big wicker chair, crossed his legs and folded his arms.
                    "Well," he said in a wholly agreeable tone, "you
                        wanted to see me, and here I am."
                    "You are well hidden," said the other, still gazing
                        about.
                    
                    "I imagine I am, from the fact that it has taken you seven years to
                        find me."
                    "I haven't been looking for you seven years,"
                        replied the stranger hastily; and his eyes again roamed the room.
                    The men seemed reluctant to approach the business that lay between them, and
                        Holbrook wore an air of indifference, as though the impending interview did
                        not concern him particularly. The eyes of the older man fell now upon the
                        beribboned work-basket. He nodded toward it, his eyes lighting
                        unpleasantly.
                    "There seems to be a woman," he remarked with a sneer of
                        implication.
                    "Yes," replied Holbrook calmly, "there is; that
                        belongs to my daughter."
                    "Where is she?" demanded the other, glancing anxiously
                        about.
                    "In bed, I fancy. You need have no fear of her."
                    Silence fell upon them again. Their affairs were difficult, and Holbrook,
                        waiting patiently for the other to broach his errand, drew out his
                        tobacco-pouch and pipe and began to smoke.
                    "Patricia is here, and Helen is with her," said the
                        visitor.
                    
                    "Yes, we are all here, it seems," remarked Holbrook dryly.
                        "It's a nice family gathering."
                    "I suppose you haven't seen them?" demanded the
                        visitor.
                    "Yes and no. I have no wish to meet them; but I've had
                        several narrow escapes. They have cut me off from my walks; but I shall
                        leave here shortly."
                    "Yes, you are going, you are going" began the visitor
                        eagerly.
                    "I am going, but not until after you have gone," said
                        Holbrook. "By some strange fate we are all here, and it is best for
                        certain things to be settled before we separate again. I have tried to keep
                        out of your way; I have sunk my identity; I have relinquished the things of
                        life that men hold dearhonor, friends, ambition, and now you and I have got
                        to have a settlement."
                    "You seem rather sure of yourself," sneered the older,
                        turning uneasily in his chair.
                    "I am altogether sure of myself. I have been a fool, but I see the
                        error of my ways and I propose to settle matters with you now and here. You
                        have got to drop your game of annoying Patricia; you've got to stop
                        using your own daughter as a spy"
                    "You lie, you lie!" roared the other, leaping to his  feet. "You can not insinuate that my
                        daughter is not acting honorably toward Patricia."
                    My mind had slowly begun to grasp the situation and to identify the men
                        before me. It was as though I looked upon a miniature stage in a darkened
                        theater, and, without a bill of the play, was slowly finding names for the
                        players. Holbrook, alias Hartridge, the boatmaker of the
                        Tippecanoe, was not Henry Holbrook, but Henry's brother, Arthur!
                        and I sought at once to recollect what I knew of him. An instant before I
                        had half turned to go, ashamed of eavesdropping upon matters that did not
                        concern me; but the Voice that had sent me held me to the window. It was
                        some such meeting as this that Helen must have feared when she sent me to
                        the house-boat, and everything else must await the issue of this
                        meeting.
                    "You had better sit down, Henry," said Arthur Holbrook
                        quietly. "And I suggest that you make less noise. This is a lonely
                        place, but there are human beings within a hundred miles."
                    Henry Holbrook paced the floor a moment and then flung himself into a chair
                        again, but he bent forward angrily, nervously beating his hands together.
                        Arthur went on speaking, his voice shaking with passion.
                    
                    "I want to say to you that you have deteriorated until you are a
                        common damned blackguard, Henry Holbrook! You are a blackguard and a
                        gambler. And you have made murderous attempts on the life of your sister;
                        you drove her from Stamford and you tried to smash her boat out here in the
                        lake. I saw the whole transaction that afternoon, and understood it allhow
                        you hung off there in the Stiletto and sent that beast to
                        do your dirty work."
                    "I didn't follow her here; I didn't follow her
                        here!" raged the other.
                    "No; but you watched and waited until you traced me here. You were not satisfied with what I had done for you. You
                        wanted to kill me before I could tell Pat the truth; and if it
                        hadn't been for that man Donovan your assassin would have stabbed
                        me at my door." Arthur Holbrook rose and flung down his pipe so
                        that the coals leaped from it. "But it's all over nowthis
                        long exile of mine, this pursuit of Pat, this hideous use of your daughter
                        to pluck your chestnuts from the fire. By God, you've got to
                        quityou've got to go!"
                    "But I want my moneyI want my money!" roared Henry, as
                        though insisting upon a right; but Arthur ignored him, and went on.
                    
                    "You were the one who was strong; and great things were expected of
                        you, to add to the traditions of family honor; but our name is only
                        mentioned with a sneer where men remember it at all. You were spoiled and
                        pampered; you have never from your early boyhood had a thought that was not
                        for yourself alone. You were always envious and jealous of anybody that came
                        near you, and not least of me; and when I saved you, when I gave you your
                        chance to become a man at last, to regain the respect you had flung away so
                        shamefully, you did not realize it, you could not realize it; you took it as
                        a matter of course, as though I had handed you a cigar. I ask you now, here
                        in this place, where I am known and respectedI ask you here, where I have
                        toiled with my hands, whether you forget why I am here?"
                    Henry Holbrook tugged at his scarf nervously and his eyes wandered about
                        uneasily. He did not answer his brother. Arthur stood over him, with folded
                        arms, his back to me so that I could not see his face; but his tone had in
                        it the gathered passion and contempt of years. Then he was at once himself,
                        standing away a little, like a lawyer after a round with a refractory
                        witness.
                    
                    "I must have my money; Patricia must make the division,"
                        replied Henry doggedly.
                    "Certainly! Certainly! I devoutly hope she will give it to you; you
                        need fear no interference from me. The sooner you get it and fling it away
                        the better. Patricia has been animated by the best motives in withholding
                        it; she regarded it as a sacred trust to administer for your own good, but
                        now I want you to have your money."
                    "If I can have my share, if you will persuade her to give it, I will
                        pay you all I owe you" Henry began eagerly.
                    "What you owe mewhat you owe me!" and
                        Arthur bent toward his brother and laugheda laugh that was not good to hear.
                        "You would give me moneymoneyyou would pay me money for priceless things!"
                    He broke off suddenly, dropping his arms at his sides helplessly.
                    "There is no use in trying to talk to you; we use a different
                        vocabulary, Henry."
                    "But that trouble with Gillespieif l'atricia
                        knew"
                    "Yes; if she knew the truth! And you never understood, you are
                        incapable of understanding, that it meant 
                        something to me to lose my sister out of my life. When Helen
                        died"and his voice fell and he paused for a moment, as a priest
                        falters sometimes, gripped by some phrase in the office that touches hidden
                        depths in his own experience, "then when Helen died there was still
                        Patricia, the noblest sister men ever had; but you robbed me of heryou
                        robbed me of her!"
                    He was deeply moved and, as he controlled himself, he walked to the little
                        table and fingered the ribbons of the work-basket.
                    "I haven't those notes, if that's what
                        you're afterI never had them," he said.
                        "Gillespie kept tight hold of them."
                    "Yes; the vindictive old devil!"
                    "Men who have been swindled are usually vindictive,"
                        replied Arthur grimly. "Gillespie is dead. I suppose the executor
                        of his estate has those papers; and the executor is his son."
                    "The fool. I've never been able to get anything out of
                        him."
                    "If he's a fool it ought to be all the easier to get your
                        pretty playthings away from him. Old Gillespie really acted pretty decently
                        about the whole business. Your daughter may be able to get them away from
                        the boy;  he's infatuated with her;
                        he wants to marry her, it seems."
                    "My daughter is not in this matter," said Henry coldly, and
                        then anger mastered him again. "I don't believe he has
                        them; you have them, and that's why I have followed you here.
                        I'm going to Patricia to throw myself on her mercy, and that ghost
                        must not rise up against me. I want them; I have come to get those
                        notes."
                    I was aroused by a shadow-like touch on my arm, and I knew without seeing who
                        it was that stood beside me. A faint hint as of violets stole upon the air;
                        her breath touched my cheek as she bent close to the little window, and she
                        sighed deeply as in relief at beholding a scene of peace. Arthur Holbrook
                        still stood with bowed head by the table, his back to his brother, and I
                        felt suddenly the girl's hand clutch my wrist. She with her fresher
                        eyes upon the scene saw, before I grasped it, what now occurred. Henry
                        Holbrook had drawn a revolver from his pocket and pointed it full at his
                        brother's back. We two at the window saw the weapon flash
                        menacingly; but suddenly Arthur Holbrook flung round as his brother
                        cried:
                    "I think you are lying to me, and I want those notes  I want those notes, I want them now! You must
                        have them, and I can't go to Patricia until I know they're
                        safe."
                    He advanced several steps and his manner grew confident as he saw that he
                        held the situation in his own grasp. I would have rushed in upon them but
                        the girl held me back.
                    "Wait! Wait!" she whispered.
                    Arthur thrust his hands into the side pockets of his flannel jacket and
                        nodded his head once or twice.
                    "Why don't you shoot, Henry?"
                    "I want those notes," said Henry Holbrook. "You
                        lied to me about them. They were to have been destroyed. I want them now,
                        to-night."
                    "If you shoot me you will undoubtedly get them much
                        easier," said Arthur; and he lounged away toward the wall, half
                        turning his back, while the point of the pistol followed him. "But
                        the fact is, I never had them; Gillespie kept them."
                    Threats cool quickly, and I really had not much fear that Henry Holbrook
                        meant to kill his brother; and Arthur's indifference to his danger
                        was having its disconcerting effect on Henry. The pistol-barrel wavered; but
                        Henry steadied himself and his clutch tightened  on the butt. I again turned toward the door, but the girl's hand
                        held me back.
                    "Wait," she whispered again. "That man is a
                        coward. He will not shoot."
                    The canoe-maker had been calmly talking, discussing the disagreeable
                        consequences of murder in a tone of half-banter, and he now stood directly
                        under the foils. Then in a flash he snatched one of them, flung it up with
                        an accustomed hand, and snapped it across his brother's knuckles.
                        At the window we heard the slim steel hiss through the air, followed by the
                        rattle of the revolver as it struck the ground. The canoe-maker's
                        foot was on it instantly; he still held the foil.
                    "Henry," he said in the tone of one rebuking a child,
                        "you are bad enough, but I do not intend that you shall be a
                        murderer. And now I want you to go; I will not treat with you; I want
                        nothing more to do with you! I repeat that I haven't got the
                        notes."
                    He pointed to the door with the foil. The blood surged angrily in his face;
                        but his voice was in complete control as he went on.
                    "Your visit has awakened me to a sense of neglected duty, Henry. I
                        have allowed you to persecute our sister without raising a hand; I have no
                        other business now  but to protect her. Go
                        back to your stupid sailor and tell him that if I catch him in any mischief
                        on the lake or here I shall certainly kill him."
                    I lost any further words that passed between them, as Henry, crazily
                        threatening, walked out upon the deck to his boat; then from the creek came
                        the threshing of oars that died away in a moment. When I gazed into the room
                        again Arthur Holbrook was blowing out the lights.
                    "I am grateful; I am so grateful," faltered the
                        girl's voice; "but you must not be seen here. Please go
                        now!" I had taken her hands, feeling that I was about to lose her;
                        but she freed them and stood away from me in the shadow.
                    "We are going awaywe must leave here! I can never see you
                        again," she whispered.
                    In the starlight she was Helen, by every test my senses could make; but by
                        something deeper I knew that she was not the girl I had seen in the window
                        at St. Agatha's. She was more dependent, less confident and poised;
                        she stifled a sob and came close. Through the window I saw Arthur Holbrook
                        climbing up to blow out the last light.
                    "I could have watched myself, but I was afraid that sailor might
                        come; and it was he that fired at you in the 
                        road. He had gone to Glenarm to watch you and keep you away from here. Uncle
                        Henry came back to-day and sent word that he wanted to see my father, and I
                        asked you to come to help us."
                    "I thank you for that."
                    "And there was another mana stranger, back there near the road; I
                        could not make him out, but you will be careful,please! You must think very
                        ill of me for bringing you into all this danger and trouble."
                    "I am grateful to you. Please turn all your troubles over to
                        me."
                    "You did what I asked you to do," she said, "when
                        I had no right to ask, but I was afraid of what might happen here. It is all
                        right now and we are going away; we must leave this place."
                    "But I shall see you again."
                    "No! You haveyou haveHelen. You don't know me at all! You
                        will find your mistake to-morrow."
                    She was urging me toward the steps that led up to the house. The sob was
                        still in her throat, but she was laughing, a little hysterically, in her
                        relief that her father had come off unscathed.
                    "Then you must let me find it out to-morrow; I will come to-morrow
                        before you go."
                    
                    "No! No! This is good-by," she said. "You would
                        not be so unkind as to stay, when I am so troubled, and there is so much to
                        do!"
                    We were at the foot of the stairway, and I heard the shop door snap shut.
                    "Good night, Rosalind!"
                    "Good-by; and thank you!" she whispered.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII
                    HOW THE NIGHT ENDED
                    
                        
                            One year ago my path was green,
                            My footstep light, my brow serene;
                            Alas! and could it have been so
                            One year ago?
                            There is a love that is to last
                            When the hot days of youth are past:
                            Such love did a sweet maid bestow
                            One year ago.
                            I took a leaflet from her braid
                            And gave it to another maid.
                            Love, broken should have been thy bow,
                            One year ago.
                        
                        
                            Landor.
                        
                    
                    As my horse whinnied and I turned into the wood a man walked boldly toward
                        me.
                    "My dear Donovan, I have been consoling your horse during your
                        absence. It's a sad habit we have fallen into of wandering about at
                        night. I liked your dner, but you were rather too anxious
                        to get rid of me. I came by boat myself!"
                    Gillespie knocked the ashes from his pipe and thrust  it into his pocket. I was in no frame of mind for talk with
                        him, a fact which he seemed to surmise.
                    "It's late, for a fact," he continued;
                        "and we both ought to be in bed; but our various affairs require
                        diligence."
                    "What are you doing over here?" I demanded. I was too weary
                        and too perplexed for his nonsense, and in no mood for confidences. I needed
                        time for reflection and I had no intention of seeking or of imparting
                        information at this juncture.
                    "Well, to tell the truth"
                    "You'd better!"
                    "To tell the truth, my dear Donovan, since I left your hospitable
                        board I have been deeply perplexed over some important questions of human
                        conduct. Are you interested in human types? Have you ever noticed the man
                        who summons all porters and waiters by the pleasing name of George? The name
                        in itself is respectable enough; nor is its generic use perniciousa matter
                        of taste only. But the same man may be identified otherwise by his proneness
                        to consume the cabinet pudding, the chocolate ice-cream and the fruit in
                        season from the chastening American bill of fare, after partaking
                        impartially of the preliminary fish, flesh and fowl.  He is confidential with hotel clerks, affectionate with
                        chambermaids and all telephone girls are Nellie to him. Types, my dear
                        Donovan"
                    "That's enough! I want to know what you are
                        doing!" and in my anger I shook him by the shoulders.
                    "Well, if you must have it, after I started to the village I changed
                        my mind about going, and I was anxious to see whether Holbrook was really
                        here; so I got a launch and came over. I stopped at the island but saw no
                        one there, and I came up the creek until I grounded; then I struck inland,
                        looking for the road. It might save us both embarrassment, Irishman, if we
                        give notice of each other's intentions, particularly at night. I
                        hung about, thinking you might appear, and"
                    "You are a poor liar, Buttons. You didn't come here
                        alone!"and I drove my weary wits hard in an effort to account for
                        his unexpected appearance.
                    "All is lost; I am discovered," he mocked.
                    He had himself freed my horse; I now took the rein and refastened it to the
                        tree.
                    "Well, inexplicable Donovan!"
                    I laughed, pleased to find that my delay annoyed him. I was confident that he
                        was not abroad at this hour for nothing, and it again occurred to me that we
                        were on  different sides of the matter. My
                        weariness fell from me like a cloak, as the events of the past hour flashed
                        fresh in my mind.
                    "Now," I said, dropping the rein and patting the
                        horse's nose for a moment, "you may go with me or you may
                        sit here; but if you would avoid trouble don't try to interfere
                        with me."
                    I did not doubt that he had been sent to watch. me; and his immediate purpose
                        seemed to be to detain me.
                    "I had hoped you would sit down and talk over the Monroe Doctrine,
                        or the partition of Africa, or something equally interesting," he
                        remarked. "You disappoint me, my dear benefactor."
                    "And you make me very tired at the end of a tiresome day, Gillespie.
                        Please continue to watch my horse; I'm off."
                    He kept at my elbow, as I expected he would, babbling away with his usual
                        volubility in an effort, now frank enough, to hold me back; but I ignored
                        his talk and plunged on through the wood toward the creek. Henry Holbrook
                        must, I argued, have had time enough to get out of the creek and back to the
                        island; but what mischief Gillespie was furthering in his behalf I could not
                        imagine.
                    
                    There was a gradual rise toward the creek and we were obliged to cling to the
                        bushes in making our ascent. Suddenly, as I paused for breath, Gillespie
                        grasped my arm.
                    "For God's sake, stop! This is no affair of yours. On my
                        honor there's nothing that affects you here."
                    "I will see whether there is or not!" I exclaimed, throwing
                        him off, but he kept close beside me.
                    We gained the trail that ran along the creek, and I paused to listen.
                    "Where's your launch?"
                    "Find it," he replied succinctly.
                    I had my bearings pretty well, and set off toward the lake, Gillespie
                        trudging behind in the narrow path. When we had gone about twenty yards a
                        lantern glimmered below and I heard voices raised in excited colloquy.
                        Gillespie started forward at a run.
                    "Keep back! This is my affair!"
                    "I'm making it mine," I replied, and flung in
                        ahead of him.
                    I ran forward rapidly, the voices growing louder, and soon heard men
                        stumbling and falling about in conflict. A woman's voice now rose
                        in a sharp cry:
                    "Let go of him! Let go of him!"
                    
                    Gillespie flashed by me down the bank to the water's edge, where the
                        struggle ended abruptly. I was not far behind, and I saw Henry Holbrook in
                        the grasp of the Italian, who was explaining to the woman, who held the
                        lantern high above her head, that he was only protecting himself. Gillespie
                        had caught hold of the sailor, who continued to protest his innocence of any
                        wish to injure Holbrook; and for a moment we peered through the dark, taking
                        account of one another.
                    "So it's you, is it?" said Henry Holbrook as the
                        Italian freed him and his eyes fell on me. "I should like to know
                        what you mean by meddling in my affairs. By God, I've enough to do
                        with my own flesh and blood without dealing with outsiders."
                    Helen Holbrook turned swiftly and held the lantern toward me, and when she
                        saw me shrugged her shoulders.
                    "You really give yourself a great deal of unnecessary concern, Mr.
                        Donovan."
                    "You are a damned impudent meddler!" blurted Henry
                        Holbrook. "I have had you watched. Youyou"
                    He darted toward me, but the Italian again caught and held him, and another
                        altercation began between them. Holbrook was wrought to a high pitch of
                        excitement  and cursed everybody who had in
                        any way interfered with him.
                    "Come, Helen," said Gillespie, stepping to the
                        girl's side; and at this Henry Holbrook turned upon him
                        viciously.
                    "You are another meddlesome outsider. Your father was a piga pig, do
                        you understand? If it hadn't been for him I shouldn't be
                        here to-night, camping out like an outlaw. And you've got to stop
                        annoying my daughter!"
                    Helen turned to the Italian and spoke to him rapidly in his own tongue.
                    "You must take him away. He is not himself. Tell him I have done the
                        best I could. Tell him"
                    She lowered her voice so that I heard no more. Holbrook was still heaping
                        abuse upon Gillespie, who stood submissively by; but Helen ran up the bank,
                        the lanternn light flashing eerily about her. She paused at the top, waiting
                        for Gillespie, who, it was patent, had brought her to this rendezvous and
                        who kept protectingly at her heels.
                    The Italian drew Holbrook toward the boat that lay at the edge of the lake.
                        He seemed to forget me in his anger against Gillespie, and he kept turning
                        toward the path down which the girl's lantern faintly twinkled.  Gillespie kept on after the girl, the lantern
                        flashing more rarely through the turn in the path, until I caught the
                        threshing of his launch as it swung out into the lake.
                    I drew back, seeing nothing to gain by appealing to Holbrook in his present
                        overwrought state. The Italian had his hands full, and was glad, I judged,
                        to let me alone. A moment later he had pushed off his boat, and I heard the
                        sound of oars receding toward the island.
                    I found my horse, led him deeper into the wood and threw off the saddle. Then
                        I walked down the road until I found a barn, and crawled into the loft and
                        slept.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVIII
                    THE LADY OF THE WHITE BUTTERFLIES
                    
                        
                            TITANIA: And pluck the wings from painted
                                butterflies,
                            To fan the moonbeams from his sleeping eyes:
                            Nod to him, elves, and do him courtesies.
                            PEASEBLOSSOM: Hail, mortal!
                        
                        
                            Midsummer Night's Dream.
                        
                    
                    The twitter of swallows in the eaves wakened me to the first light of day,
                        and after I had taken a dip in the creek I still seemed to be sole
                        proprietor of the world, so quiet lay field and woodland. I followed the
                        lake shore to a fishermen's camp, where, in the good comradeship of
                        outdoors men the world over, I got bread and coffee and no questions asked.
                        I smoked a pipe with the fishermen to kill time, and it was still but a
                        trifle after six o'clock when I started for Red Gate. My mood was
                        not for the open road, and I sought woodland paths, that I might loiter the
                        more. With squirrels scampering before me, and attended by bird-song and the
                        morning drum-beat of the woodpecker, I strode on until I came out upon a
                        series of rough pastures, separated by stake-and-rider  fences that crawled sinuously through tangles of blackberries
                        and wild roses. As I tramped along a cow-path that traversed these pastures,
                        the dew sparkled on the short grass, and wings whirred and dipped in
                        salutation before me. My memories of the night vanished in the perfection of
                        the day; I went forth to no renewal of acquaintance with shadows, or with
                        the lurking figures in a dark drama, but to enchantments that were fresh
                        with life and light. Barred gates separated these fallow fields, and I
                        passed through one, crossed the intermediate pasture, and opened the gate of
                        the third. Before me lay a field of daisies, bobbing amid wild grass, the
                        morning wind softly stirring the myriad disks, so that the whole had the
                        effect of quiet motion. The path led on again, but more faintly here. A line
                        of sycamores two hundred yards to my right marked the bed of the Tippecanoe;
                        and on my left hand, beyond a walnut grove, a little filmy dust-cloud hung
                        above the hidden highway. The meadow was a place of utter peace; the very
                        air spoke of holy things. I thrust my cap into my jacket pocket and stood
                        watching the wind crisp the flowers. Then my attention wandered to the mad
                        antics of a squirrel that ran along the fence.
                    When I turned to the field again I saw Rosalind  coming toward me along the path, clad in white, hatless, and her hands
                        lightly brushing the lush grass that seemed to leap up to touch them. She
                        had not seen me, and I drew back a little for love of the picture she made.
                        Three white butterflies fluttered about her head, like an appointed guard of
                        honor, and she caught at them with her hands, turning her head to watch
                        their staggering flight.
                    She paused abruptly midway of the daisies, and I walked toward her slowlyit
                        must have been slowlyand I think we were both glad of a moment's
                        respite in which to study each other. Then she spoke at once, as though our
                        meeting had been prearranged.
                    "I hoped I should see you," she said gravely.
                    "I had every intention of seeing you! I was killing time until I
                        felt I might decently lift the latch of Red Gate."
                    She inspected me with her hands clasped behind her.
                    "Please don't look at me like that!" I laughed.
                        "I camped in a barn last night for fear I shouldn't get
                        here in time."
                    "I wish to speak to you for a few minutesto tell you what you may
                        have guessed about usmy father and me."
                    
                    "Yes; if you like; but only to help you if I can. It is not
                        necessary for you to tell me anything."
                    She turned and led the way across the daisy field. She walked swiftly,
                        holding back her skirts from the crowding flowers, traversed the garden of
                        Red Gate, and continued down to the house-boat.
                    "We can be quiet here," she said, throwing open the door.
                        "My father is at Tippecanoe village, shipping one of his canoes. We
                        are early risers, you see!"
                    The little sitting-room adjoining the shop was calm and cool, and the ripple
                        of the creek was only an emphasis of the prevailing rural quiet. She sat
                        down by the table in a red-cushioned wicker chair and folded her hands in
                        her lap and smiled a little as she saw me regarding her fixedly. I suppose I
                        had expected to find her clad in saffron robes or in doublet and hose, but
                        the very crispness of her white piqu spoke delightfully of present times and
                        manners. My glance rested on the emerald ring; then I looked into her eyes
                        again.
                    "You see I am really very different," she smiled.
                        "I'm not the same person at all!"
                    "No; it's wonderfulwonderful!" And I still stared.
                        She grew grave again.
                    "I have important things to say to you, but it's just  as well for you to see me in the broadest of
                        daylight, so that"she pondered a moment, as though to be sure of
                        expressing herself clearly"so that when you see Helen Holbrook in
                        an hour or so in that pretty garden by the lake you will understand that it
                        was not really Rosalind after all thatthatamused you!"
                    "But the daylight is not helping that idea. You are marvelously
                        alike, and yet" I floundered miserably in my uncertainty.
                    "Then,"and she smiled at my discomfiture, "if you
                        can't tell us apart, it makes no difference whether you ever see me
                        again or not. You see, Mr.but did you ever tell me what
                        your name is? Well, I know it, anyhow, Mr. Donovan."
                    The little work-table was between us, and on it lay the foil which her father
                        had snatched from the wall the night before. I still stood, gazing down at
                        Rosalind. Fashion, I saw, had done something for the amazing resemblance.
                        She wore her hair in the pompadour of the day, with exactly Helen's
                        sweep; and her white gown was identical with that worn that year by
                        thousands of young women. She had even the same gestures, the same little
                        way of resting her cheek against her hand that Helen had; and before she
                        spoke she moved her head a  trifle to one
                        side, with a pretty suggestion of just having been startled from a reverie,
                        that was Helen's trick precisely.
                    She forgot for a moment our serious affairs, to which I was not in the least
                        anxious to turn, in her amusement at my perplexity.
                    "It must be even more extraordinary than I imagined. I have not seen
                        Helen for seven years. She is my cousin; and when we were children together
                        at Stamford our mothers used to dress us alike to further the resemblance.
                        Our mothers, you may not know, were not only sisters; they were twin
                        sisters! But Helen is, I think, a trifle taller than I am. This little
                        mark"she touched the peak"is really very curious. Both our
                        mothers and our grandmother had it. And you see that I speak a little more
                        rapidly than she doesat least that used to be the case. I don't
                        know my grown-up cousin at all. We probably have different tastes,
                        temperaments, and all that."
                    "I am positive of it!" I exclaimed; yet I was really sure
                        of nothing, save that I was talking to an exceedingly pretty girl, who was
                        amazingly like another very pretty girl whom I knew much better.
                    "You are her guardian, so to speak, Mr. Donovan.  You are taking care of my Aunt Pat and my
                        cousin. Just how that came about I don't know."
                    "They were sent to St. Agatha's by Father Stoddard, an old
                        friend of mine. They had suffered many annoyances, to put it mildly, and
                        came here to get away from their troubles."
                    "Yes; I understand. Uncle Henry has acted outrageously. I have not
                        ranged the country at night for nothing. I have even learned a few things
                        from you," she laughed. "And you must continue to serve
                        Aunt Patricia and my cousin. You see,"and she smiled her grave
                        smile"my father and I are an antagonistic element."
                    "No; not as between you and Miss Patricia! I'm sure of
                        that. It is Henry Holbrook that I am to protect her from. You and your
                        father do not enter into it."
                    "If you don't mind telling me, Mr. Donovan, I should like
                        to know whether Aunt Pat has mentioned us."
                    "Only once, when I first saw her and she explained why she had come.
                        She seemed greatly moved when she spoke of your father. Since then she has
                        never referred to him. But the day we cruised up to Battle Orchard and Henry
                        Holbrook's man tried to smash our launch, she was shaken out of
                        herself, and she declared war when  we got
                        home. Then I was on the lake with her the night of the carnival. Helen did
                        not go with us. And when you paddled by us, Miss Pat was quite disturbed at
                        the sight of you; but she thought it was an illusion, andI thought it was
                        Helen!"
                    "I have been home only a few weeks, but I came just in time to be
                        with father in his troubles. My uncle's enmity is very bitter, as
                        you have seen. I do not understand it. Father has told me little of their
                        difficulties; but I know," she said, lifting her head proudly,
                        "I know that my father has done nothing dishonorable. He has told
                        me so, and I am content with that."
                    I bowed, not knowing what to say.
                    "I have been here only once or twice before, and for short visits
                        only. Most of the time I have been at a convent in Canada, where I was known
                        as Rosalind Hartridge. Rosalind, you know, is really my name: I was named
                        for Helen's mother. The Sisters took pity on my loneliness, and
                        were very kind to me. But now I am never going to leave my father
                        again."
                    She spoke with no unkindness or bitterness, but with a gravity born of deep
                        feeling. I marked now the lighter timbre of her voice, that was quite
                        different from her cousin's; and she spoke more rapidly, as she had
                        said, her  naturally quick speech catching at
                        times the cadence of cultivated French. And she was a simpler natureI felt
                        that; she was really very unlike Helen.
                    "You manage a canoe pretty well," I ventured, still
                        studying her face, her voice, her ways, eagerly.
                    "That was very foolish, wasn't it?my running in behind the
                        procession that way!" and she laughed softly at the recollection.
                        "But that was professional pride! That was one of my
                        father's best canoes, and he helped me to decorate it. He takes a
                        great delight in his work; it's all he has left! And I wanted to
                        show those people at Port Annandale what a really fine canoea genuine
                        Hartridgewas like. I did not expect to run into you or Aunt
                        Pat."
                    "You should have gone on and claimed the prize. It was yours of
                        right. When your star vanished I thought the world had come to an
                        end."
                    "It hadn't, you see! I put out the lights so that I could
                        get home unseen."
                    "You gave us a shock. Please don't do it again; and please,
                        if you and your cousin are to meet, kindly let it be on solid ground.
                        I'm a little afraid, even now, that you are a lady of
                        dreams."
                    "Not a bit of it! I enjoy a sound appetite; I can  carry a canoe like a Canadian guide; I am as
                        good a fencer as my father; and I'm not afraid of the dark. You
                        see, in the long vacations up there in Canada I lived out of doors and I
                        shouldn't mind staying on here always. I like to paddle a canoe,
                        and I know how to cast a fly, and I've shot ducks from a blind. You
                        see how very highly accomplished I am! Now, my cousin Helen"
                    "Well?" and I was glad to hear her happy laugh. Sorrow and
                        loneliness had not stifled the spirit of mischief in her, and she enjoyed
                        vexing me with references to her cousin.
                    I walked the length of the room and looked out upon the creek that ran
                        singing through the little vale. They were a strange family, these
                        Holbrooks, and the perplexities of their affairs multiplied. How to prevent
                        further injury and heartache and disaster; how to restore this girl and her
                        exiled father to the life from which they had vanished; and how to save Miss
                        Pat and Helen,these things possessed my mind and heart. I sat down and faced
                        Rosalind across the table. She had taken up a bright bit of ribbon from the
                        work-basket and was slipping it back and forth through her fingers.
                    "The name Gillespie was mentioned here last night.  Can you tell me just how he was concerned in
                        your father's affairs?" I asked.
                    "He was the largest creditor of the Holbrook bank. He lived at
                        Stamford, where we all used to live."
                    "This Gillespie had a son. I suppose he inherits his
                        father's claims."
                    She laughed outright.
                    "I have heard of him. He is a remarkable character, it seems, who
                        does ridiculous things. He did as a child: I remember him very well as a
                        droll boy at Stamford, who was always in mischief. I had forgotten all about
                        him until I saw an amusing account of him in a newspaper a few months ago.
                        He had been arrested for fast driving in Central Park; and the next day he
                        went back to the park with a boy's toy wagon and team of goats, as
                        a joke on the policeman."
                    "I can well believe it! The fellow's here, staying at the
                        inn at Annandale."
                    "So I understand. To be frank, I have seen him and talked with him.
                        We have had, in fact, several interesting interviews,"and she
                        laughed merrily.
                    "Where did all this happen?"
                    "Once, out on the lake, when we were both prowling about in canoes.
                        I talked to him, but made him keep his 
                        distance. I dared him to race me, and finally paddled off and left him. Then
                        another time, on the shore near St. Agatha's. I was taking an
                        observation of the school garden from the bluff, and Mr. Gillespie came
                        walking through the woods and made love to me. He came so suddenly that I
                        couldn't run, but I saw that he took me for Helen, in broad
                        daylight, and II"
                    "Well, of course you scorned himyou told him to be gone. You did
                        that much for her."
                    "No, I didn't. I liked his love-making; it was unaffected
                        and simple."
                    "Oh, yes! It would naturally be simple!"
                    "That is brutal. He's clever, and earnest, and amusing.
                        But" and her brow contracted, "but if he is seeking my
                        father"
                    "Rest assured he is not. He is in love with your
                        cousinthat's the reason for his being here."
                    "But that does not help my father's case any."
                    "We will see about that. You are right about him; he's
                        really a most amusing person, and not a fool, except for his own amusement.
                        He is shrewd enough to keep clear of Miss Pat, who dislikes him intensely on
                        his father's account. She feels that the senior Gillespie was the
                        cause of all her troubles, but I don't know just why.
                    
                    She's strongly prejudiced against the young man, and his
                        whimsicalities do not appeal to her."
                    "I suppose Helen cares nothing for him; he acted toward me as though
                        he'd been crushed, and II tried to be nice to him to make up for
                        it."
                    "That was nice of you, very nice of you, Rosalind. I hope you will
                        keep right on the way you've begun. Now I must ask you not to leave
                        here, and not to allow your father to leave unless I know it."
                    "But you have your hands full without us. Your first obligation is
                        to Aunt Pat and Helen. My father and I have merely stumbled in where we were
                        not invited. You and I had better say good-by now."
                    "I am not anxious to say good-by," I answered lamely, and
                        she laughed at me.
                    Helen, I reflected, did not laugh so readily. Rosalind was beautiful, she was
                        charming; and yet her likeness to Helen failed in baffling particulars. Even
                        as she came through the daisy meadow there had been a differenceat least I
                        seemed to realize it now. The white butterflies symbolized her Ariel-like
                        quality; for the life of me I could not associate those pale, fluttering
                        vagrants with Helen Holbrook.
                    "We met under the star-r-rs, Mr. Donovan" (this was  impudent; my own r's trill, they say), "at the stone seat and by the
                        boat-house, and we talked Shakespeare and had a beautiful time,all because
                        you thought I was Helen. In your anxiety to be with her you
                        couldn't see that I haven't quite her noble
                        height,I'm an inch shorter. I gave you every chance there at the
                        boat-house, to see your mistake; but you wouldn't have it so. And
                        you let me leave you there while I went back alone across the lake to Red
                        Gate, right by Battle Orchard, which is haunted by Indian ghosts. You are a
                        most gallant gentleman!"
                    "When you are quite done, Rosalind!"
                    "I don't know when I shall have a chance again, Mr.
                        Donovan," she went on provokingly. "I learned a good deal
                        from you in those interviews, but I did have to do a lot of guessing. That
                        was a real inspiration of mine, to insist on playing that Helen by night and
                        Helen by day were different personalities, and that you must not speak to
                        the one of the other. That saved complications, because you did keep to the
                        compact, didn't you?"
                    I assented, a little grudgingly; and my thoughts went back with reluctant
                        step to those early affairs of mine, which I have already frankly disclosed
                        in this chronicle, and I wondered, with her counterpart before me, how  much Helen really meant to me. Rosalind
                        studied me with her frank, merry eyes; then she bent forward and addressed
                        me with something of that prescient air with which my sisters used to
                        lecture me.
                    "Mr. Donovan, I fear you are a little mixed in your mind this
                        morning, and I propose to set you straight."
                    "About what, if you please?"
                    The conceit in man always rises and struts at the approach of a
                        woman's sympathy. My body ached, the knife slash across my ribs
                        burnt, and I felt myself a sadly abused person as Rosalind addressed me.
                    "I understand all about you, Mr. Donovan."
                    My plumage fell; I did not want to be understood, I told myself; but I
                        said:
                    "Please go on."
                    "I can tell you exactly why it is that Helen has taken so strong
                        hold of your imagination,why, in fact, you are in love with
                        her."
                    "Not thatnot that."
                    She snatched the foil from the table and cut the air with it several times as
                        I started toward her. Then she stamped her foot and saluted me.
                    "Stand where you are, sir! Your race, Mr. Donovan, has a bad
                        reputation in matters of the heart. For a moment  ment you thought you were in love with me; but you are not,
                        and you are not going to be. You see, I understand you
                        perfectly."
                    "That's what my sisters used to tell me."
                    "Precisely! And I'm another one of your sistersyou must
                        have scores of them!and I expect you to be increasingly proud of
                        me."
                    "Of course I admire Helen" I began, I fear, a little
                        sheepishly.
                    "And you admire most what you don't understand about her!
                        Now that you examine me in the light of day you see what a tremendous
                        difference there is between us. I am altogether obvious; I am not the least
                        bit subtle. But Helen puzzles and thwarts you. She finds keen delight in
                        antagonizing you; and she as much as says to you, 'Mr. Donovan, you
                        are a frightfully conceited person, and you have had many adventures by sea
                        and shore, and you think you know all about human nature and women, but IIam quite as wise and resourceful as you are, and whether
                        I am right or wrong I'm going to fight you, fight you, fight
                        you!' There, Mr. Laurance Donovan, is the whole matter in a
                        nut-shell, and I should like you to know that I am not at all deceived by
                        you. You did me a great service last night, 
                        and you would serve me again, I am confident of it; and I hope, when all
                        these troubles are over, that we shall continuemy father, and you and Ithe
                        best friends in the world."
                    I can not deny that I was a good deal abashed by this declaration spoken
                        without coquetry, and with a sincerity of tone and manner that seemed
                        conclusive.
                    I began stammering some reply, but she recurred abruptly to the serious
                        business that hung over us.
                    "I know you will do what you can for Aunt Pat. I wish you would tell
                        her, if you think it wise, that father is here. They should understand each
                        other. And Helen, my splendid, courageous, beautiful cousin,you see I
                        don't grudge her even her better looks, or that intrepid heart that
                        makes us so different. I am sure you can manage all these things in the best
                        possible way. And now I must find my father, and tell him that you are going
                        to arrange a meeting with Aunt Pat, and talk to him of our
                        future."
                    She led the way up to the garden, and as I struck off into the road she waved
                        her hand to me, standing under the overhanging sign that proclaimed
                        Hartridge, the canoe-maker, at Red Gate.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIX
                    HELEN TAKES ME TO TASK
                    
                        
                            My Lady's name, when I hear strangers use,
                            Not meaning her, to me sounds lax misuse;
                            I love none but my Lady's name;
                            Maude, Grace, Rose, Marian, all the same,
                            Are harsh, or blank and tame.
                            Fresh beauties, howsoe'er she moves, are
                                stirr'd
                            As the sunn'd bosom of a humming-bird
                            At each pant lifts some fiery hue,
                            Fierce gold, bewildering green or blue;
                            The same, yet ever new.
                        
                        
                            Thomas Woolner.
                        
                    
                    I paced the breezy terrace at Glenarm, studying my problems, and stumbling
                        into new perplexities at every turn. My judgment has usually served me
                        poorly in my own affairs, which I have generally confided to Good Luck, that
                        most amiable of goddesses; and I glanced out upon the lake with some notion,
                        perhaps, of seeing her fairy sail drifting toward me. But there, to my
                        vexation, hung the Stiletto, scarcely moving in the
                        indolent air of noon. There was, I felt again, something sinister  in the very whiteness of its
                        pocket-handkerchief of canvas as it stole lazily before the wind. Did Miss
                        Pat, in the school beyond the wall, see and understand, or was the yacht
                        hanging there as a menace or stimulus to Helen Holbrook, to keep her alert
                        in her father's behalf?
                    "There are ladies to see you, sir," announced the maid, and
                        I found Helen and Sister Margaret waiting in the library.
                    The Sister, as though by prearrangement, went to the farther end of the room
                        and took up a book.
                    "I wish to see you alone," said Helen, "and I
                        didn't want Aunt Pat to know I came," and she glanced
                        toward Sister Margaret, whose brown habit and nun's bonnet had
                        merged into the shadows of a remote alcove.
                    The brim of Helen's white-plumed hat made a little dusk about her
                        eyes. Pink and white became her; she put aside her parasol and folded her
                        ungloved hands, and then, as she spoke, her head went almost impereeptibly
                        to one side, and I found myself bending forward as I studied the differences
                        between her and the girl on the Tippecanoe. Helen's lips were
                        fuller and ruddier, her eyes darker, her lashes longer. But there was
                        another difference, too subtle for my powers of analysis; something  less obvious than the length of lash or the
                        color of eyes; and I was not yet ready to give a name to it. Of one thing I
                        was sure: my pulses quickened before her; and her glance thrilled through me
                        as Rosalind's had not.
                    "Mr. Donovan, I have come to appeal to you to put an end to this
                        miserable affair into which we have brought you. My own position has grown
                        too difficult, too equivocal to be borne any longer. You saw from my
                        father's conduct last night how hopeless it is to try to reason
                        with him. He has brooded upon his troubles until he is half mad. And I
                        learned from him what I had not dreamed of, that my Uncle Arthur is
                        herehere, of all places. I suppose you know that."
                    "Yes; but it is a mere coincidence. It was a good hiding-place for
                        him, as well as for us."
                    "It is very unfortunate for all of us that he should be here. I had
                        hoped he would bury himself where he would never be heard of
                        again!" she said, and anger burned for a moment in her face.
                        "If he has any shame left, I should think he would leave here at
                        once!"
                    "It's to be remembered, Miss Holbrook, that he came first;
                        and I am quite satisfied that your father sought him here before you and
                        your aunt came to Annandale.
                    
                    It seems to me the equity lies with your unclethe creek as a hiding-place
                        belongs to him by right of discovery."
                    She smiled ready agreement to this, and I felt, that she had come to win
                        support for some plan of her own. She had never been more amiable; certainly
                        she had never been lovelier.
                    "You are quite right. We had all of us better go and leave him in
                        peace. What is it he does thereruns a ferry or manages a
                        boat-house?"
                    "He is a canoe-maker," I said dryly, "with more
                        than a local reputation."
                    Her tone changed at once.
                    "I'm glad; I'm very glad he has escaped from his
                        old ways; for all our sakes," she added, with a little sigh.
                        "And poor Rosalind! You may not know that he has a daughter. She is
                        about a year younger than I. She must have had a sad time of it. I was named
                        for her mother and she for mine. If you should meet her, Mr. Donovan, I wish
                        you would tell her how sorry I am not to be able to see her. But Aunt Pat
                        must not know that Uncle Arthur is here. I think she has tried to forget
                        him, and her troubles with my father have effaced everything else. I hope
                        you will manage that, for me; that Aunt Pat shall not know that Uncle Arthur
                        and Rosalind are here.  It could only distress
                        her. It would be opening a book that she believes closed
                        forever."
                    Her solicitude for her aunt's peace of mind, spoken with eyes
                        averted and in a low tone, lacked nothing.
                    "I have seen your cousin," I said. "I saw her, in
                        fact, this morning."
                    "Rosalind? Then you can tell me whetherwhether I am really so like
                        her as they used to think!"
                    "You are rather like!" I replied lightly.
                        "But I shall not attempt to tell you how. It would not doit would
                        involve particulars that might prove embarrassing. There are times when even
                        I find discretion better than frankness."
                    "You wish to save my feelings," she laughed. "But
                        I am really taller!"
                    "By an inchshe told me that!"
                    "Then you have seen her more than once?"
                    "Yes; more than twice even."
                    "Then you must tell me wherein we are alike; I should really like to
                        know."
                    "I have told you I can't; it's beyond my poor
                        powers. I will tell you this, though"
                    "Well?"
                    "That I think you both delightful."
                    
                    "I am disappointed in you. I thought you a man of courage, Mr.
                        Donovan."
                    "Even brave men falter at the cannon's mouth!"
                    "You are undoubtedly an Irishman, Mr. Donovan. I am sorry we
                        shan't have any more tennis."
                    "You have said so, Miss Holbrook, not I."
                    She laughed, and then glanced toward the brown figure of Sister Margaret, and
                        was silent for a moment, while the old clock on the stair boomed out the
                        half-hour and was answered cheerily by the pretty tinkle of the chapel
                        chime. I counted four poppy-leaves that fluttered free from a bowl on the
                        book-shelf above her head and lazily fell to the floor at her feet.
                    "I had hoped," she said, "that we were good
                        friends, Mr. Donovan."
                    "I have believed that we were, Miss Holbrook."
                    "You must see that this situation must terminate, that we are now at
                        a crisis. You can understandI need not tell youhow fully my sympathies lie
                        with my father; it could not be otherwise."
                    "That is only natural. I have nothing to say on that
                        point."
                    "And you can understand, too, that it has not been easy for me to be
                        dependent upon Aunt Pat. You don't 
                        knowI have no intention of talking against herbut you can't blame
                        me for thinking her harda little hard on my father."
                    I nodded.
                    "I am sorry, very sorry, that you should have these troubles, Miss
                        Holbrook."
                    "I know you are," she replied eagerly, and her eyes
                        brightened. "Your sympathy has meant so much to Aunt Pat and me.
                        And now, before worse things happen"
                    "Worse things must not happen!"
                    "Then we must put an end to it all, Mr. Donovan. There is only one
                        way. My father will never leave here until Aunt Pat has settled with him.
                        And it is his right to demand it," she hurried on. "I
                        would have you know that he is not as black as he has been painted. He has
                        been his own worst enemy; and Uncle Arthur's ill-doings must not be
                        charged to him. But he has been wrong, terribly wrong, in his conduct toward
                        Aunt Pat. I do not deny that, and he does not. But it is only a matter of
                        money, and Aunt Pat has plenty of it; and there can be no question of honor
                        between Uncle Arthur and father. It was Uncle Arthur's act that
                        caused all this trouble; father has told me the whole story. Quite  likely father would make no good use of his
                        moneyI will grant that. But think of the strain of these years on all of us;
                        think of what it has meant to me, to have this cloud hanging over my life!
                        It is dreadfulbeyond any words it is hideous; and I can't stand it
                        any longer, not another weeknot another day! It must end now and
                        here."
                    Her tear-filled eyes rested upon me pleadingly, and a sob caught her throat
                        as she tried to go on.
                    "But" I began.
                    "Pleaseplease!" she broke in, touching her handkerchief to
                        her eyes and smiling appealingly. "I am asking very little of you,
                        after all."
                    "Yes, it is little enough; but it seems to me a futile interference.
                        If your father would go to her himself, if you would take him to herthat
                        strikes me as the better strategy of the matter."
                    "Then am I to understand that you will not help; that you will not
                        do this for usfor me?"
                    "I am sorry to have to say no, Miss Holbrook," I replied
                        steadily.
                    "Then I regret that I shall have to go further; I must appeal to you
                        as a personal matter purely. It is not easy; but if we are really very good
                        friends"
                    
                    She glanced toward Sister Margaret, then rose and walked out upon the
                        terrace.
                    "You will hate me" she began, smiling wanly, the tears
                        bright in her eyes; and she knew that it was not easy to hate her.
                        "I have taken money from Mr. Gillespie, for my father, since I came
                        here. It is a large sum, and when my father left here he went away to spend
                        itto waste it. It is all gone, and worse than gone. I must pay that backI
                        must not be under obligations to Mr. Gillespie. It was wrong, it was very
                        wrong of me, but I was distracted, half crazed by my father's
                        threats of violence against Aunt Patagainst us all. I am sure that you can
                        see how I came to do it. And now you are my friend; will you help
                        me?" and she broke off, smiling, tearful, her back to the
                        balustrade, her hand at her side lightly touching it.
                    She had confidence, I thought, in the power of tears, as she slipped her
                        handkerchief into her sleeve and waited for me to answer.
                    "Of course Mr. Gillespie only loaned you the money to help you over
                        a difficulty; in some way that must be cared for. I like him; he is a fellow
                        of good impulses. I repeat that I believe this matter can be arranged
                        readily enough, by yourself and your father. My intrusion would only  make a worse muddle of your affairs. Send for
                        your father and let him go to your aunt in the right spirit; and I believe
                        that an hour's talk will settle everything."
                    "You seem to have misunderstood my purpose in coming here, Mr.
                        Donovan," she answered coldly. "I asked your help, not
                        your advice. I have even thrown myself on your mercy, and you tell me to do
                        what you know is impossible."
                    "Nothing is so impossible as the present attitude of your father.
                        Until that is changed your aunt would be doing your father a great injury by
                        giving him this money."
                    "And as for me" and her eyes blazed"as for
                        me," she said, choking with anger, "after I have opened
                        this page of my life to you and you have given me your fatherly adviceas for
                        me, I will show you, and Aunt Pat and all of them, that what can not be done
                        one way may be done in another. If I say the word and let the law take its
                        course with my unclethat man who brought all these troubles upon usyou may
                        have the joy of knowing that it was your faultyour fault, Mr.
                        Donovan!"
                    "I beg of you, do nothing! If you will not bring your father to Miss
                        Pat, please let me arrange the meeting."
                    
                    "He will not listen to you. He looks upon you as a meddler; and so
                        do I, Mr. Donovan!"
                    "But your uncleyou must not, you would not!" I cried,
                        terror-struck to see how fate drew her toward the pitfall from which I hoped
                        to save her.
                    "Don't say 'must not' to me, if you
                        please!" she flung back; but when she reached the door she turned
                        and said calmly, though her eyes still blazed:
                    "I suppose it is not necessary for me to ask that you consider what
                        I have said to you confidential."
                    "It is quite unnecessary," I said, not knowing whether I
                        loved or pitied her most; and my wits were busy trying to devise means of
                        saving her the heartache her ignorance held in store for her.
                    She called to Sister Margaret in her brightest tone, and when I had walked
                        with them to St. Agatha's gate she bade me good-by with quite as
                        demure and Christian an air as the Sister herself.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XX
                    THE TOUCH OF DISHONOR
                    
                        Give me a staff of honour for mine age.
                        
                            Titus Andronicus.
                        
                    
                    I was meditating my course over a cheerless luncheon when Gillespie was
                        announced. He lounged into the dining-room, drew his chair to the table and
                        covered a biscuit with camembert with his usual inscrutable air.
                    "I think it is better," he said deliberatingly,
                        "to be an ass than a fool. Have you any views on the
                        subject?"
                    "None, my dear Buttons. I have been called both by shrewd
                        men."
                    "So have I, if the worst were known, and they offered proof! Ah,
                        more and more I see that we were born for each other, Donovan. I was once so
                        impressed with the notion that to be a fool was to be distinguished that I
                        conceived the idea of forming a Noble Order of Serene and Incurable Fools. I
                        elected myself The Grand and Most Worthy Master, feeling safe from
                        competition. News of the matter having gone forth, many persons of  the highest standing wrote to me,
                        recommending their friends for membership. My correspondence soon engaged
                        three type-writers, and I was obliged to get the post-office department to
                        help me break the chain. A few humble souls applied on their own hook for
                        consideration. These I elected and placed in the first class. You would be
                        surprised to know how many people who are chronic joiners wrote in
                        absent-mindedly for application blanks, fearing to be left out of a good
                        thing. United States senators were rather common on the list, and there were
                        three governors; a bishop wrote to propose a brother bishop, of whose merits
                        he spoke in the warmest terms. Many newspapers declared that the society
                        filled a long-felt want. I received invitations to speak on the uses and
                        benefits of the order from many learned bodies. The thing began to bore me,
                        and when my official stationery was exhausted I issued a farewell address to
                        my troops and dissolved the society. But it's a great gratification
                        to me, my dear Donovan, that we quit with a waiting-list."
                    "There are times, Buttons, when you cease to divert me. I'm
                        likely to be very busy for a few days. Just what can I do for you this
                        afternoon?"
                    "Look here, old man, you're not angry?"
                    
                    "No; I'm rarely angry; but I'm often
                        bored."
                    "Then your brutal insinuation shall not go unrewarded. Let me
                        proceed. But first, how are your ribs?"
                    "Sore and a trifle stiff, but I'm comfortable,
                        thanks."
                    "As I understand matters, Irishman, there is no real difference
                        between you and me except in the matter of a certain lady. Otherwise we
                        might combine our forces in the interest of these unhappy
                        Holbrooks."
                    "You are quite right. You came here to say something; go on and be
                        done with it."
                    He deftly covered another biscuit with the cheese, of whose antiquity he
                        complained sadly.
                    "I say, Donovan, between old soldier friends, what were you doing up
                        there on the creek last night?"
                    "Studying the landscape effects by starlight. It's a habit
                        of mine. Your own presence there might need accounting for, if you
                        don't mind."
                    "I will be square about it. I met Helen quite accidentally as I left
                        this house, and she wanted to see her father. I took her over there, and we
                        found Henry. He was up to some mischiefyou may know what it was. Something
                        had gone wrong with him, and he was in all kinds of a bad humor.
                        Unfortunately, you got the benefit of some of it."
                    
                    "I will supply you a link in the night's affairs. Henry had
                        been to see his brother Arthur."
                    Gillespie's face fell, and I saw that he was greatly surprised.
                    "Humph! Helen didn't tell me that."
                    "The reason Henry came here was to look for his brother.
                        That's how he reached this place ahead of Miss Pat and Helen. And I
                        have learned somethingit makes no difference how, but it was not from the
                        ladies at St. Agatha'sI learned last night that the key of this
                        whole situation is in your own hands, Gillespie. Your father was swindled by
                        the Holbrooks; which Holbrook?"
                    He was at once sane and serious, and replied soberly:
                    "I never doubted that it was Arthur. If he wasn't guilty,
                        why did he run away? It was a queer business, and father never mentioned it.
                        Henry gave out the impression that my father had taken advantage of Holbrook
                        Brothers and forced their failure; but father shut up and never told me
                        anything."
                    "But you have the notes"
                    "Yes, but I'm not to open them, yet. I can't tell
                        you about that now." He grew red and played with his cravat.
                    
                    "Where are they?" I asked.
                    "I've just had them sent to me; they're in the
                        bank at Annandale. There's another thing you may not know. Old man
                        Holbrook, who lived to be older than the hills, left a provision in his will
                        that adds to the complications. Miss Pat may have mentioned that stuff in
                        her father's will about the honor of the brothers?"
                    "She just mentioned it. Please tell me what you know of
                        it."
                    He took out his pocket-book and read me this paragraph from a newspaper
                        cutting:
                    "And the said one million dollars hereinbefore specifically provided
                        for shall, after the lapse of ten years, be divided between my said sons
                        Henry and Arthur Holbrook, share and share alike; but if either of my said
                        sons shall have been touched by dishonor through his own act, as honor is
                        accounted, reckoned and valued among men, my said daughter Patricia to be
                        the sole judge thereof, then he shall forfeit his share of said amount thus
                        withheld, and the whole of said sum of one million dollars shall be adjudged
                        to belong to the other son."
                    Gillespie lighted a cigarette and smoked quietly for several minutes, and
                        when he spoke it was with deep feeling.
                    "I love that girl, Donovan. I believe she cares for me, or would if
                        she could get out of all these entanglements.
                    
                    I'm almost ready to burn that packet and tell Miss Pat
                        she's got to settle with Henry and be done with it. Let him spend
                        his money and die in disgrace and go to the devil; anything is better than
                        all this secrecy and mystery that enmeshes Helen. I'm going to end
                        it; I'm going to end it!"
                    We had gone to the library, and he threw himself down in the chair from which
                        she had spoken of him so short a time before that I seemed still to feel her
                        presence in the room.
                    He was of that youthful, blond type which still sunburns after much tanning.
                        His short hair was brushed smooth on his well-formed head. The checks and
                        stripes and hideous color combinations in his raiment, which Miss Pat had
                        mentioned at our first interview, were, I imagined, peculiar to his strange
                        humora denotement of his willingness to sacrifice himself to mystify or
                        annoy others. He seemed younger to-day than I had thought him before; he was
                        a kind, generous, amusing boy, whose physical strength seemed an anomaly in
                        one so gentle. He did not understand Helen; and as I reflected that I was
                        not sure I understood her myself, the heads of the dragon multiplied, and my
                        task at Annandale grew on my hands. But I wanted to help  this boy if it was in me to do it, and I
                        clapped him on the shoulder.
                    "Cheer up, lad! If we can't untie the knot we'll
                        lose no time cutting the string. There may be some fun in this business
                        before we get through with it."
                    I began telling him of some of my own experiences, and won him to a cheerier
                        mood. When we came round to the Holbrooks again his depression had passed,
                        and we were on the best of terms.
                    "But there's one thing we can't get away from,
                        Donovan. I've got to protect Helen; don't you see?
                        I've got to take care of her, whatever comes."
                    "But you can't take care of her father. He's
                        hopeless."
                    "I could give him this money myself, couldn't I? I can do
                        it, and I've about concluded that I ought to do it."
                    "But that would be a waste. It would be like giving whisky to a
                        drunkard. Money has been at the bottom of all this trouble."
                    Gillespie threw up his hands with a gesture of helplessness.
                    "I shall undoubtedly lose such wits as I have if we don't
                        get somewhere in this business pretty soon. But,  Donovan, there's something I want to ask you. I
                        don't like to speak of it, but when we were coming away from that
                        infernal island, after our scrap with the dago, there were two people
                        walking on the bluffa man and a woman, and the woman was nearest us. She
                        seemed to be purposely putting herself in the man's way so we
                        couldn't see him. It didn't seem possible that Helen could
                        be therebut?"
                    He clearly wished to be assured, and I answered at once:
                    "I saw them; it couldn't have been Helen. It was merely a
                        similarity of figure. I couldn't distinguish her face at all. Very
                        likely they were Port Annandale cottagers."
                    "I thought so myself," he replied, evidently relieved. It
                        did not seem necessary to tell him of Rosalind at Red Gate; that was my
                        secret, and I was not yet ready to share it.
                    "I've got to talk to somebody, and I want to tell you
                        something, Donovan. I can't deny that there are times when Helen
                        doesn't seemwell, all that I have thought her at other times.
                        Sometimes she seems selfish and hard, and all that. And I know she
                        hasn't treated Miss Pat right; it isn't square for her to
                        take Miss Pat's  bounty and then work
                        against her. But I make allowances, Donovan."
                    "Of course," I acquiesced, wishing to cheer him.
                        "So do I. She has been hard put in this business. And a
                        man's love can't always be at paror a woman's
                        either! The only thing a man ought to exact of the woman he marries is that
                        she put up a cheerful breakfast-table. Nothing else counts very much. Start
                        the day right, hand him his gloves and a kind word at the front door as he
                        sallies forth to the day's battle, and constancy and devotion will
                        be her reward. I have spoken words of wisdom. Harken, O Chief Button-maker
                        of the World!"
                    The chiming of the bells beyond the Glenarm wall caused him to lift his head
                        defiantly. I knew what was in his mind. He was in loveor thought he was,
                        which has been said to be the same thingand he wanted to see the girl he
                        loved; and I resolved to aid him in the matter. I have done some mischief in
                        my life, but real evil I have, I hope, never done. It occurred to me now
                        that I might do a little good. And for justification I reasoned that I was
                        already so deep in the affairs of other people that a little further plunge
                        could do no particular harm.
                    "You think her rarely beautiful, don't you,
                        Buttons?"
                    
                    "She is the most beautiful woman in the world!" he
                        exclaimed.
                    "The type is not without charm. Every man has his ideal in the way
                        of a type. I will admit that her type is rare," I remarked with
                        condescension.
                    "Rare!" he shouted. "Rare! You speak of her,
                        Irishman, as though she were a mummy or a gargoyle oror"
                    "No; I should hardly say that. But there are always
                        others."
                    "There are no othersnot another one to compare with her! You are
                        positively brutal when you speak of that girl. You should at least be just
                        to her; a blind man could feel her beauty even if he couldn't
                        see!"
                    "I repeat that it's the type! Propinquity, another pair of
                        dark eyes, the drooping lash, those slim fingers resting meditatively
                        against a similar oval olive cheek, and the mischief's
                        done."
                    "I don't understand you," he declared blankly, and
                        then the color flooded his face. "I believe you are in love with
                        her yourself!" And then, ironically: "Or maybe
                        it's just the type you fancy. Any other girl, with the same dark
                        eyes, the drooping lash"
                    "You'd never be happy with Helen Holbrook if she 
                        
                            "I can't imagine a girl's marrying me for
                                anything else." Page 301
                        
                         married you, Gillespie. What you need is a
                        clinging vine. Helen isn't that."
                    "That is your opinion, is it, Mr. Donovan? You want me to seek my
                        faith in the arboretum, do you? You mustn't think yourself the
                        permanent manager of all the Holbrooks and of me, too! I have never
                        understood just how you broke into this. And I can't see that you
                        have done much to help anybody, if you must know my opinion."
                    "I have every intention of helping you, Buttons. I like you. You
                        have to me all the marks of a good fellow. My heart goes out to you in this
                        matter. I want to see you happily married to a woman who will appreciate
                        you. If you're not careful some girl will marry you for your
                        money."
                    Good humor mastered him again, and he grinned his delightful boyish grin.
                    "I can't for the life of me imagine a girl's
                        marrying me for anything else," he said. "Can
                        you?"
                    "I'll tell you what I'll do for you, my
                        lad," I said. "I'll arrange for you to see Helen
                        to-night! You shall meet and talk and dance with her at Port Annandale
                        casino, in the most conventional way in the world, with me for chaperon. By
                        reason of being Mr. Glenarm's  guest
                        here, I'm ex officio a member of the club.
                        I'll manage everything. Miss Pat shall know nothingall on one
                        condition only."
                    "Well, name your price."
                    "That you shall not mention family affairs to her at
                        all."
                    "God knows I shall be delighted to escape them!" His eyes
                        brightened and he clapped his hands together. "I owe her a pair of
                        gloves on an old wager. I have them in the village and will bring them over
                        to-night," he said; but deception was not an easy game for him. I
                        grinned and he colored.
                    "It's not money, Donovan," he said, as hurt as a
                        misjudged child. "I won't lie to you. I was to meet her at
                        St. Agatha's pier to-night to give her the gloves."
                    "You shall have your opportunity, but those meetings on piers
                        won't do. I will hand her over to you at the casino at nine
                        o'clock. I suppose I may have a dance or two?"
                    "I suppose so," he said, so grudgingly that I laughed
                        aloud.
                    "Remember the compact; try to have a good time and don't
                        talk of trouble," I enjoined, as we parted.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXI
                    A BLUE CLOAK AND A SCARLET
                    
                        
                            When first we met we did not guess
                            That Love would prove so hard a master;
                            Of more than common friendliness
                            When first we met we did not guess
                            Who could foretell this sore distress
                            This irretrievable disaster
                            When first we met? We did not guess
                            That Love would prove so hard a master.
                        
                        
                            Robert Bridges.
                        
                    
                    Miss Pat asked me to dine at St. Agatha's that night. The message
                        came unexpectedlya line on one of those quaint visiting-cards of hers,
                        brought by the gardener; and when I had penned my acceptance I at once sent
                        the following message by Ijima to the boat-maker's house at Red
                        Gate: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        To Rosalind at Red Gate:
                                    
                                    It is important for you to appear with me at the Port
                                        Annandale casino to-night, and to meet Reginald Gillespie
                                        there. He is pledged to refer in no way to family affairs.
                                        If he should attempt to, you need only remind him of his
                                        promise. He will imagine that you are some one else, so
                                        please be careful not to tax his imagination too far. There
                                             is much at stake which I
                                        will explain later. You are to refuse nothing that he may
                                        offer you. I shall come into the creek with the launch and
                                        call for you at Red Gate.
                                    
                                        THE IRISHMAN
                                                at GLENARM.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    The casino dances are very informal. A plain white gown and a few ribbons.
                        But don't omit your emerald.
                    I was not sure where this project would lead me, but I committed myself to it
                        with a fair conscience. I reached St. Agatha's just as dinner was
                        announced and we went out at once to the small dining-room used by the
                        Sister in charge during vacation, where I faced Miss Pat, with Helen on one
                        hand and Sister Margaret on the other. They were all in good humor, even
                        Sister Margaret proving less austere than usual, and it is not too much to
                        say that we were a merry party. Helen led me with a particular intention to
                        talk of Irish affairs, and avowed her own unbelief in the capacity of the
                        Irish for self-government.
                    "Now, Helen!" admonished Miss Pat, as our debate waxed
                        warm.
                    "Oh, do not spare me! I could not be shot to pieces in a better
                        cause!"
                    "The trouble with you people," declared Helen with
                        finality, "is that you have no staying qualities. The smashing of a
                        few heads occasionally satisfies your 
                        islanders, then down go the necks beneath the yoke. You are incapable of
                        prolonged war. Now even the Cubans did better; you must admit that, Mr.
                        Donovan!"
                    She met my eyes with a challenge. There was no question as to the animus of
                        the discussion: she wished me to understand that there was war between us,
                        and that with no great faith in my wit or powers of endurance she was
                        setting herself confidently to the business of defeating my purposes. And I
                        must confess that I liked it in her!
                    "If we had you for an advocate our flag would undoubtedly rule the
                        seas, Miss Holbrook!"
                    "I dip my colors," she replied, "only to the
                        long-enduring, not to the valiant alone!"
                    "A lady of high renown," I mused aloud, while Miss Pat
                        poured the coffee, "a lady of your own name, was once more or less
                        responsible for a little affair that lasted ten years about the walls of a
                        six-gated city."
                    "I wasn't named for her! No sugar
                        to-night, please, Aunt Pat!"
                    I stood with her presently by an open window of the parlor, looking out upon
                        the night. Sister Margaret had vanished about her household duties; Miss Pat
                        had taken up a book with the rather obvious intention of leaving  us to ourselves. I expected to start at eight
                        for my rendezvous at Red Gate, and my ear was alert to the chiming of the
                        chapel clock. The gardener had begun his evening rounds, and paused in the
                        walk beneath us.
                    "Don't you think," asked Helen, "that the
                        guard is rather ridiculous?"
                    "Yes, but it pleases my medieval instincts to imagine that you need
                        defenders. In the absence of a moat the gardener combines in himself all the
                        apparatus of defense. Ijima is his Asiatic ally."
                    "And you, I suppose, are the grand strategist and field
                        marshal."
                    "At least that!"
                    "After this morning I never expected to ask a favor of you; but if,
                        in my humblest tone"
                    "Certainly. Anything within reason."
                    "I want you to take me to the casino to-night to the dance.
                        I'm tired of being cooped up here. I want to hear music and see new
                        faces."
                    "Do pardon me for not having thought of it before! They dance over
                        there every Wednesday and Saturday night. I'm sorry that to-night I
                        have an engagement, but won't you allow me on
                        Saturday?"
                    She was resting her arms on the high sill, gazing  out upon the lake. I stood near, watching her, and as she
                        sighed deeply my heart ached for her; but in a moment she turned her head
                        swiftly with mischief laughing in her eyes.
                    "You have really refused! You have positively declined! You plead
                        another engagement! This is a place where one's engagements are burdensome."
                    "This one happens to be important."
                    She turned round with her back to the window.
                    "We are eternal foes; we are fighting it out to a finish; and it is
                        better that way. But, Mr. Donovan, I haven't played all my cards
                        yet."
                    "I look upon you as a resourceful person and I shall be prepared for
                        the worst. Shall we say Saturday night for the dance?"
                    "No!" she exclaimed, tossing her head. "And let me
                        have the satisfaction of telling you that I could not have gone with you
                        to-night anyhow. Good-by."
                    I found Ijima ready with the launch at Glenarm pier, and, after a swift
                        flight to the Tippecanoe, knocked at the door of Red Gate. Arthur Holbrook
                        admitted me, and led the way to the room where, as his captive, I had first
                        talked with him.
                    "We have met before," he said, smiling. "I thought
                             you were an enemy at that time. Now I
                        believe I may count you a friend."
                    "Yes; I should like to prove myself your friend, Mr.
                        Holbrook."
                    "Thank you," he said simply; and we shook hands.
                        "You have taken an interest in my affairs, so my daughter tells me.
                        She is very dear to meshe is all I have left; you can understand that I wish
                        to avoid involving her in these family difficulties."
                    "I would cut off my right hand before I would risk injuring you or
                        her, Mr. Holbrook," I replied earnestly. "You have a right
                        to know why I wish her to visit the casino with me to-night. I know what she
                        does not know, what only two other people know; I know why you are
                        here."
                    "I am very sorry; I regret it very much," he said without
                        surprise but with deep feeling. The jauntiness with which he carried off our
                        first interview was gone; he seemed older, and there was no mistaking the
                        trouble and anxiety in his eyes. He would have said more, but I interrupted
                        him.
                    "As far as I am concerned no one else shall ever know. The persons
                        who know the truth about you are your brother and yourself. Strangely
                        enough, Reginald Gillespie  does not know.
                        Your sister has not the slightest idea of it. Your daughter, I assume, has
                        no notion of it"
                    "No! no!" he exclaimed eagerly. "She has not
                        known; she has believed what I have told her; and now she must never know
                        how stupid, how mad, I have been."
                    "To-night," I said, "your daughter and I will gain
                        possession of the forged notes. Gillespie will give them to her; and I
                        should like to hold them for a day or two."
                    He was pacing the floor and at this wheeled upon me with doubt and suspicion
                        clearly written on his face.
                    "But I don't see how you can manage it!"
                    "Mr. Gillespie is infatuated with your niece."
                    "With Helen, who is with my sister at St.
                        Agatha's."
                    "I have promised Gillespie that he shall see her tonight at the
                        casino dance. Your sister is very bitter against him and he is mortally
                        afraid of her."
                    "His father really acted very decently, when you know the truth. But
                        I don't see how this is to be managed. I should like to possess
                        myself of those papers, but not at too great a cost. More for
                        Rosalind's sake than my own now, I should have them."
                    "You may not know that your daughter and her cousin are as like as
                        two human beings can be. I am rather put to it myself to tell them
                        apart."
                    
                    "Their mothers were much alike, but they were distinguishable. If
                        you are proposing a substitution of Rosalind for Helen, I should say to have
                        a care of it. You may deceive a casual acquaintance, but hardly a
                        lover."
                    "I have carried through worse adventures. Those documents must not
                        get intointounfriendly hands! I have pledged myself that Miss Patricia shall
                        be kept free from further trouble, and much trouble lies in those forged
                        notes if your brother gets them. But I hope to do a little more than protect
                        your sister; I want to get you all out of your difficulties. There is no
                        reason for your remaining in exile. You owe it to your daughter to go back
                        to civilization. And your sister needs you. You saved your brother once; you
                        will pardon me for saying that you owe him no further mercy."
                    He thrust his hands into his pockets and paced the floor a moment, before he
                        said:
                    "You are quite right. But I am sure you will be very careful of my
                        little girl; she is all I havequite all I have."
                    He went to the hall and called her and bowed with a graceful, old-fashioned
                        courtesy that reminded me of Miss Pat as Rosalind came into the room.
                    
                    "Will I do, gentlemen all?" she asked gaily. "Do I
                        look the fraud I feel?"
                    She threw off a long scarlet cloak that fell to her heels and stood before us
                        in whiteit was as though she had stepped out of flame. She turned slowly
                        round, with head bent, submitting herself for our inspection.
                    Her gown was perfectly simple, high at the throat and with sleeves that
                        clasped her wrists. To my masculine eyes it was of the same piece and
                        pattern as the gown in which I had left Helen at St. Agatha's an
                        hour before.
                    "I think I read doubt in your mind," she laughed.
                        "You must not tell me now that you have backed out; I shall try it
                        myself, if you are weakening. I am anxious for the curtain to
                        rise."
                    "There is only one thing: I suggest that you omit that locket. I
                        dined with her to-night, so my memory is fresh."
                    She unclasped the tiny locket that hung from a slight band of velvet at her
                        throat, and threw it aside; and her father, who was not, I saw, wholly
                        reconciled to my undertaking, held the cloak for her and led the way with a
                        lantern through the garden and down to the waterside and along the creek to
                        the launch where Ijima was in  readiness We
                        quickly embarked, and the launch stole away through the narrow shores,
                        Holbrook swinging his lantern back and forth in good-by. I had lingered
                        longer at the boat-maker's than I intended, and as we neared the
                        upper lake and the creek broadened Ijima sent the launch forward at full
                        speed. When we approached Battle Orchard I bade him stop, and hiding our
                        lantern I took an oar and guided the launch quietly by. Then we went on into
                        the upper lake at a lively clip. Rosalind sat quietly in the bow, the hood
                        of her cloak gathered about her head.
                    I was taking steering directions from Ijima, but as we neared Port Annandale
                        I glanced over my shoulder to mark the casino pier lights when Rosalind sang
                        out:
                    "Hard aporthard!"
                    I obeyed, and we passed within oar's length of a sail-boat, which,
                        showing no light, but with mainsail set, was loafing leisurely before the
                        light west wind. As we veered away I saw a man's figure at the
                        wheel; another figure showed darkly against the euddy.
                    "Hang out your lights!" I shouted angrily. But there was no
                        reply.
                    "The Stiletto," muttered Ijima, starting
                        the engine again.
                    
                    "We must look out for her going back," I said, as we
                        watched the sloop merge into shadow.
                    The lights of the casino blazed cheerily as we drew up to the pier, and
                        Rosalind stepped out in good spirits, catching up and humming the waltz that
                        rang down upon us from the club-house.
                    "Lady," I said, "let us see what lands we shall
                        discover."
                    "I ought to feel terribly wicked, but I really never felt
                        cheerfuller in my life," she averred. "But I have one
                        embarrassment!"
                    "Well?"and we paused, while she dropped the hood upon her
                        shoulders.
                    "What shall I call this gentleman?"
                    "What does she call him? I'm blest if I
                        know! I call him Buttons usually; Knight of the Rueful Countenance might
                        serve; but very likely she calls him Reggie."
                    "I will try them all," she said. "I think we used
                        to call him Reggie on Strawberry Hill. Very likely he will detect the fraud
                        at once and I shan't get very far with him."
                    "You shall get as far as you please. Leave it to me. He shall see
                        you first on the veranda overlooking the water where there are shadows in
                        plenty, and you had  better keep your cloak
                        about you until the first shock of meeting has passed. Then if he wants you
                        to dance, I will hold the cloak, like a faithful chaperon, and you may
                        muffle yourself in it the instant you come out; so even if he has his
                        suspicions he will have no time to indulge them. He is undoubtedly
                        patrolling the veranda, looking for us even now. He's a faithful
                        knight!"
                    As we passed the open door the dance ceased and a throng of young people came
                        gaily out to take the air. We joined the procession, and were accepted
                        without remark. Several men whom I had seen in the village or met in the
                        highway nodded amiably. Gillespie, I knew, was waiting somewhere; and I gave
                        Rosalind final admonitions.
                    "Now be cheerful! Be cordial! In case of doubt grow moody, and look
                        out upon the water, as though seeking an answer in the stars. Though I seem
                        to disappear I shall be hanging about with an eye for danger-signals. Ah! He
                        approaches! He comes!"
                    Gillespie advanced eagerly, with happiness alight in his face.
                    "Helen!" he cried, taking her hand; and to me:
                        "You are not so great a liar after all, Irishman."
                    "Oh, Mr. Donovan is the kindest person imaginable,"  she replied and turned her head daringly so
                        that the light from a window fell full upon her, and he gazed at her with
                        frank, boyish admiration. Then she drew her wrap about her shoulders and sat
                        down on a bench with her face in shadow, and as I walked away her laughter
                        followed me cheerily.
                    I was promptly seized by a young man, who feigned to have met me in some
                        former incarnation, and introduced to a girl from Detroit whose name I shall
                        never know in this world. I remember that she danced well, and that she
                        asked me whether I knew people in Duluth, Fond du Lae, Paducah and a number
                        of other towns which she recited like a geographical index. She formed, I
                        think, a high opinion of my sense of humor, for I laughed at everything she
                        said in my general joy of the situation. After our third dance I got her an
                        ice and found another cavalier for her. I did not feel at all as contrite as
                        I should have felt as I strolled round the veranda toward Rosalind and
                        Gillespie. They were talking in low tones and did not heed me until I spoke
                        to them.
                    "Oh, it's you, is it?"and Gillespie looked up at
                        me resentfully.
                    "I have been gone two years! It seems to me I am  doing pretty well, all things considered!
                        What have you been talking about?"
                    "''Bout Giunts, an' Griffuns,
                        an' Elves,
                    An' the Squidgicum-Squees 'at swallers
                        therselves!'"
                    Rosalind quoted. "I hope you have been enjoying
                        yourself."
                    "After a dull fashion, yes."
                    "I should like to tell her that! We saw you through the window. She
                        struck us as very pretty, didn't she, Reggie?"
                    "I didn't notice her," Gillespie replied with so
                        little interest that we both laughed.
                    "It's too bad," remarked Rosalind, "that
                        Aunt Pat couldn't have come with us. It would have been a relief
                        for her to get away from that dreary school-house."
                    "I might go and fetch her," I suggested.
                    "If you do," said Gillespie, grinning, "you will
                        not find us here when you get back."
                    Rosalind sighed, as though at the remembrance of her aunt's forlorn
                        exile; then the music broke out in a twostep.
                    "Come! We must have this dance!" she exclaimed, and
                        Gillespie rose obediently. I followed, exchanging  chaff with Rosalind until we came to the door, where she threw
                        off her cloak for the first time.
                    "Lord and Protector, will you do me the honor?"
                    It all happened in a moment. I tossed the cloak across my arm carelessly and
                        she turned to Gillespie without looking at me. He hesitatedsome word
                        faltered on his lips. I think it must have been the quick transition of her
                        appearance effected by the change from the rich color of the cloak to the
                        white of her dress that startled him. She realized the danger of the moment,
                        and put her arm on his arm.
                    "We mustn't miss a note of it: Good-by,"and with a
                        nod to me I next saw her far away amid the throng of dancers.
                    As I caught up the cloak under my arm something crackled under my fingers,
                        and hurrying to a dark corner of the veranda I found the pocket and drew
                        forth an envelope. My conscience, I confess, was agreeably quiescent. You
                        may, if you wish, pronounce my conduct at several points of this narrative
                        wholly indefensible; but I was engaged in a sincere effort to straighten out
                        the Holbrook tangle, and Helen had openly challenged me. If I could carry
                        this deception through successfully I believed that within a few hours I
                        might bring Henry  Holbrook to terms. As for
                        Gillespie he was far safer with Rosalind than with Helen. I thrust the
                        envelope into my breast pocket and settled myself by the veranda rail, where
                        I could look out upon the lake, and at the same time keep an eye on the
                        ball-room. And, to be frank about it, I felt rather pleased with myself! It
                        would do Helen no great harm to wait for Gillespie on St. Agatha's
                        pier: the discipline of disappointment would be good for her. Vigorous
                        hand-clapping demanded a repetition of the popular two-step of the hour, and
                        I saw Rosalind and Gillespie swing into the dance as the music struck up
                        again.
                    Somewhere beneath I heard the rumble and bang of a bowling-alley above the
                        music. Then my eyes, roaming the lake, fell upon the casino pier below. Some
                        one was coming toward mea girl wrapped in a long cloak who had apparently
                        just landed from a boat. She moved swiftly toward the casino. I saw her and
                        lost her again as she passed in and out of the light of the pier lamps. A
                        dozen times the shadows caught her away; a dozen times the pier lights
                        flashed upon her; and at last I was aware that it was Helen Holbrook,
                        walking swiftly, as though upon an urgent errand. I ran down the steps and
                        met her luckily on a deserted stretch of board walk.
                    
                    I was prepared for an angry outburst, but hardly for the sword-like glitter
                        of her first words.
                    "This is infamous! It is outrageous! I did not believe that even you
                        would be guilty of this!"
                    The two-step was swinging on to its conclusion, and I knew that the casino
                        entrance was not the place for a scene with an angry girl.
                    "I am anything you like; but please come to a place where we can
                        talk quietly."
                    "I will not! I will not be tricked by you again."
                    "You will come along with me, at once and quietly," I said;
                        and to my surprise she walked up the steps beside me. As we passed the
                        ball-room door the music climbed to its climax and ended.
                    "Come, let us go to the farther end of the veranda."
                    When we had reached a quiet corner she broke out upon me again.
                    "If you have done what I think you have done, what I might have
                        known you would do, I shall punish you terriblyyou and her!"
                    "You may punish me all you like, but you shall not punish
                        her!" I said with her own emphasis.
                    "Reginald promised me some papers to-nightmy father had asked me to
                        get them for him. She does not  know, this
                        cousin of mine, what they are, what her father is! It is left for you to
                        bring the shame upon her."
                    "It had better be I than you, in your present frame of
                        mind!"and the pity welled in my heart. I must save her from the
                        heartache that lay in the truth. If I failed in this I should fail
                        indeed.
                    "Do you want her to know that her father is a forger a felon? That
                        is what you are telling her, if you trick Reginald into giving her those
                        papers he was to give me for my father!"
                    "She hasn't those papers. I have them. They are in my
                        pocket, quite safe from all of you. You are altogether too vindictive, you
                        Holbrooks! I have no intention of trusting you with such high
                        explosives."
                    "Reginald shall take them away from you. He is not a child to be
                        played withduped in this fashion."
                    "Reginald is a good fellow. He will always love me for
                        this"
                    "For cheating him? Don't you suppose he will resent it?
                        Don't you think he knows me from every other girl in the
                        world?"
                    "No, I do not. In fact I have proved that he doesn't. You
                        see, Miss Holbrook, he gave her the documents in the case without a
                        question."
                    
                    "And she dutifully passed them on to you!"
                    "Nothing of the kind, my dear Miss Holbrook! I took them out of her
                        cloak pocket."
                    "That is quite in keeping!"
                    "I'm not done yet! Pardon me, but I want you to exchange
                        clocks with me. You shall have Reginald in a moment, and we will make sure
                        that he is deceived by letting him take you home. You are as like as two
                        peas in everything except temper, humor and such trifles; but your cloaks
                        are quite different. Please!"
                    "I will not!"
                    "Please!"
                    "You are despicable, despicable!"
                    "I am really the best friend you have in the world. Again, will you
                        kindly exchange cloaks with me? Yours is blue, isn't it? I think
                        Reginald knows blue from red. Ah, thank you! Now, I want you to promise to
                        say nothing as he takes you home about papers, your father, your uncle or
                        your aunt. You will talk to him of times when you were children at Stamford,
                        and things like that, in a dreamy reminiscential key. If he speaks of things
                        that you don't exactly understand, refers to what he has said to
                        your cousin here to-night, you need only fend him off; tell him the incident
                        is closed. When I  bring him to you in ten
                        minutes it will be with the understanding that he is to take you back to St.
                        Agatha's at once. He has his launch at the casino pier; you
                        needn't say anything to him when you land, only that you must get
                        home quietly, so Miss Pat shan't know you have been out. Your exits
                        and your entrances are your own affair. Now I hope you see the wisdom of
                        obeying me, absolutely."
                    "I didn't know that I could hate you so much!" she
                        said quietly. "But I shall not forget this. I shall let you see
                        before I am a day older that you are not quite the master you think you are:
                        suppose I tell him how you have played with him."
                    "Then before you are three hours older I shall precipitate a crisis
                        that you will not like, Miss Holbrook. I advise you, as your best friend, to
                        do what I ask."
                    She shrugged her shoulders, drew the scarlet cloak more closely about her,
                        and I left her gazing off into the strip of wood that lay close upon the
                        inland side of the club-house. I was by no means sure of her, but there was
                        no time for further parley. I dropped the blue cloak on a chair in a corner
                        and hurried round to the door of the ball-room, meeting Rosalind and
                        Gillespie coming out flushed with their dance.
                    
                    "The hour of enchantment is almost past. I must have one turn before
                        the princess goes back to her castle!"and Rosalind took my arm.
                    "Meet me at the landing in two minutes, Gillespie! As a special
                        favoras a particular kindnessI shall allow you to take the princess
                        home!" And I hurried Rosalind away, regained the blue cloak, and
                        flung it about her.
                    "Well," she said, drawing the hood over her head,
                        "who am I, anyhow!"
                    "Don't ask me such questions! I'm afraid to
                        say."
                    "I like your air of business. You are undoubtedly a man of
                        action!"
                    "I thank you for the word. I'm breathing hard. I have seen
                        ghosts and communed with dragons. She's here! your alter ego is on this very veranda more angry than it is well for a
                        woman to be."
                    "Oh," she faltered, "she found out and
                        followed?"
                    "She did; she undoubtedly did!"
                    As we paused under one of the veranda lamps she looked down at the cloak and
                        laughed.
                    "So this is hers! I thought it didn't feel quite right. But
                        that pair of gloves!"
                    "It's in my pocket. I have sto
                        it!" I led the way  to the lower
                        veranda of the casino, which was now deserted. "Stay right here and
                        appear deeply interested in the heavens above and the waters under the earth
                        until I get back."
                    I ran up the stairs again and found Helen where I had left her.
                    "And now," I said, giving her my arm, "you will
                        not forget the rules of the game! Your fortunes, and your father's
                        are brighter to-night than they have ever been. You hate me to the point of
                        desperation, but remember I am your friend after all."
                    She stopped abruptly, hesitating. I felt indecision in the lessening touch
                        upon my arm, and I saw it in her eyes as the light from the ball-room door
                        flooded us.
                    "You have taken everything away from me! You are playing Reginald
                        against me."
                    "Possiblywho knows! I supposed you had more faith in your powers
                        than that!"
                    "I have no faith in anything," she said dejectedly.
                    "Oh, yes, you have! You have an immense amount of faith in yourself.
                        And you know you care nothing at all about Reginald Gillespie; he's
                        a nice boy, but that's all."
                    "You are contempt and wicked!" she
                        flared. "Let us go."
                    
                    Gillespie's launch was ready when we reached the pier, and after he
                        had handed her into it he plucked my sleeve, and held me for an instant.
                    "Don't you see how wrong you are! She is superb! She is not
                        only the most beautiful girl in the world, but the dearest, the sweetest,
                        the kindest and best. You have served me better than you know, old man, and
                        I'm grateful!"
                    In a moment they were well under way and I ran back to the club-house and
                        found Rosalind where I had left her.
                    "We must go at once," she said. "Father will be
                        very anxious to know how it all came out."
                    "But what did you think of Buttons?"
                    "He's very nice," she said.
                    "Is that all? It doesn't seem conclusive, some
                        way!" "Oh, he's very kind and gentle, and anxious
                        to please. But I felt like a criminal all the time."
                    "You seemed to be a very cheerful criminal. I suppose it was only
                        the excitement that kept you going."
                    "Of course that was it! I was wondering what to call it.
                        I'm afraid the Sisters at the convent would have a less pleasant
                        word for it."
                    "Well, you are not in school now; and I think we have  done a good night's work for
                        everybody concerned. But tell me, did he make love acceptably?"
                    "I suppose that was what he was doing, sir," she replied
                        demurely, averting her head.
                    "Suppose?" I laughed.
                    "Yes; you see, it was my first experience. And he is really very
                        nice, and so honest and kind and gentle that I felt sorry for
                        him."
                    "Ah! You were sorry for him! Then it's all over.
                        I'm clear out of it. When a woman is sorry for a mantchk! But tell
                        me, how did his advances compare with mine on those occasions when we met
                        over there by St. Agatha's? I did my best to be
                        entertaining."
                    "Oh, he is much more earnest than you ever could be. I never had any
                        illusions about you, Mr. Donovan. You just amuse yourself with the nearest
                        girl, and, besides, for a long time you thought I was Helen. Mr. Gillespie
                        is terribly in earnest. When he was talking to me back there in the corner I
                        didn't remember at all that it was he who drove a goat-team in
                        Central Park to rebuke the policeman!"
                    "No; I suppose with the stage properly set,with the music and the
                        stars and the water,one might forget Mr. Gillespie's mild
                        idiosynerasies."
                    
                    "But you haven't told me about Helen. Of course she saw
                        through the trick at once."
                    "She did;" I answered, in a tone that caused Rosalind to
                        laugh.
                    "Well, you wouldn't hurt poor little me if she scolded
                        you!"
                    We were on the pier, and I whistled to Ijima to bring up the launch. In a
                        moment we were skimming over the lake toward the Tippecanoe.
                    Arthur Holbrook was waiting for us in the creek.
                    "It is all right," I said. "I shall keep the
                        papers for the present, if you don't mind, but your troubles are
                        nearly over." And I left Rosalind laughingly explaining to her
                        father how it came about that she had gone to the casino in a scarlet cloak
                        but had returned in a blue one.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXII
                    MR. GILLESPIE'S DIVERSIONS
                    
                        
                            Patience or Prudence,what you will,
                            Some prefix faintly fragrant still
                            As those old musky scents that fill
                            Our grandmas' pillows;
                            And for her youthful portrait take
                            Some long-waist child of Hudson's make,
                            Stiffly at ease beside a lake
                            With swans and willows.
                        
                        
                            Austin Dobson.
                        
                    
                    In my own room I drew the blinds for greater security, lighted the desk-lamp
                        and sat down before the packet Gillespie had given Rosalind. It was a brown
                        commercial envelope, thric sealed, and addressed,
                        "R. Gillespie: Personal." In a corner was written
                        "Holbrook Papers." I turned the packet over and over in my
                        hands, reflecting upon my responsibility and duty in regard to it. Henry
                        Holbrook, in his anxiety to secure the notes, had taken advantage of
                        Gillespie's infatuation for Helen to make her his agent for
                        procuring them, and now it was for me to use the forged notes as a  means of restoring Arthur Holbrook to his
                        sister's confidence. The way seemed clear enough, and I went to bed
                        resolving that in the morning I should go to Henry Holbrook, tell him that I
                        had the evidence of his guilt in my possession and threaten him with
                        exposure if he did not cease his mad efforts to blackmail his sister.
                    I rose early and perfected my plans for the day as I breakfasted. A storm had
                        passed round us in the night and it was bright an cool,
                        with a sharp wind beating the lake into tiny whitecaps. It was not yet eight
                        o'clock when I left the house for my journey in search of Henry
                        Holbrook. The envelope containing the forged notes was safely locked in the
                        vault in which the Glenarm silver was stored. As I stepped down into the
                        park I caught sight of Miss Pat walking in the garden beyond the wall, and
                        as I lifted my cap she came toward the iron gate. She was rarely abroad so
                        early and I imagined that she had been waiting for me.
                    The chill of the air was unseasonable, and in her long coat her slight figure
                        seemed smaller than ever. She smiled her grave smile, but there was, I
                        thought, an unusual twinkle in her gentle eyes. She wore for the first time
                        a lace cap that gave a new delicacy to her face.
                    "You are abroad early, my lord." she said, with the  delicious quaint mockery with which she
                        sometimes flattered me. And she repeated the lines:
                    
                        "Hast thou seen ghosts? Hast thou at midnight heard
                        In the wind's talking an articulate word?
                        Or art thou in the secret of the sea.
                        And have the twilight woods confessed to thee?"
                    
                    "No such pleasant things have happened to me, Miss
                        Holbrook."
                    "This is my birthday. I have crowned myself: observe the
                        cap!"
                    "We must celebrate! I crave the privilege of dining you
                        to-night."
                    "You were starting for somewhere with an air of determination.
                        Don't let me interfere with your plans."
                    "I was going to the boat-house," I answered truthfully.
                    "Let me come along. I am turned sixty-five, and I think I am
                        entitled to do as I please; don't you?"
                    "I do, indeed, but that is no reason. You are no more sixty-five
                        than I am. The cap, if you will pardon me, only proclaims your immunity from
                        the blasts of Time."
                    "I wish I had known you at twenty," she said brightly, as
                        we went on together.
                    
                    "My subjection could not have been more complete."
                    "Do you make speeches like that to Helen?"
                    "If I do it is with less inspiration!"
                    "You must stop chaffing me. I am not sixty-five for nothing and I
                        don't think you are naturally disrespectful."
                    When we reached the boat-house she took a chair on the little veranda and
                        smiled as though something greatly amused her.
                    "Mr. DonovanI am sixty-five, as I have said before may I call
                        you"
                    "Larry! and gladden me forever!"
                    "Then, Larry, what a lot of frauds we all are!"
                    "I suppose we are," I admitted doubtfully, not sure where
                        the joke lay.
                    "You have been trying to be very kind to me, haven't
                        you?"
                    "I have accomplished nothing."
                    "You have tried to make my way easy here; and you have had no end of
                        trouble. I am not as dull as I look, Larry."
                    "If I have deceived you it has been with an honest
                        purpose."
                    "I don't question that. But Helen has been giving  you a great deal of trouble, hasn't
                        she? You don't quite make her out; isn't that
                        true?"
                    "I understand her perfeetly," I averred recklessly.
                    "You are a daring young man, Larry, to make that statement of any
                        woman. Helen has not always dealt honestly with youor me!"
                    "She is the noblest girl in the world; she is splendid beyond any
                        words of mine. I don't understand what you mean, Miss
                        Holbrook."
                    "Larry, you dear boy, I am no more blind or deaf than I am dumb!
                        Helen has been seeing her father and Reginald Gillespie. She has run off at
                        night, thinking I wouldn't know it. She is an extremely clever
                        young woman, but when she has made a feint of retiring early, only to creep
                        out and drop down from the dining-room balcony and dodge your guards, I have
                        known it. She was away last night and came creeping in like a thief. It has
                        amused me, Larry; it has furnished me real diversion. The only thing that
                        puzzles me is that I don't quite see where you stand."
                    "I haven't always been sure myself, to be frank about
                        it!"
                    "Why not tell me just how it is: whether Helen has been amusing
                        herself with you, or you with Helen."
                    
                    "Oh!" I laughed. "When you came here you told me
                        she was the finest girl in the world, and I accepted your word for it. I
                        have every confidence in your judgment, and you have known your niece for a
                        long time."
                    "I have indeed."
                    "And I'm sure you wouldn't have deceived
                        me!"
                    "But I did! I wanted to interest you in her. Something in your eye
                        told me that you might do great things for her."
                    "Thank you!"
                    "But instead of that you have played into her hands. Why did you let
                        her steal out at night to meet her father, when you knew that could only do
                        her and me a grave injury? And you have aided her in seeing Gillespie, when
                        I particularly warned you that he was most repugnant to me."
                    I laughed in spite of myself as I remembered the night's adventure;
                        and Miss Pat stopped short in the path and faced me with the least glint of
                        anger in her eyes.
                    "I really didn't think you capable of it! She will marry
                        him for his money!"
                    "Take my word for it, she will do nothing of the kind."
                    
                    "You are under her spell, and you don't know her! I
                        thinksometimesI think the girl has no soul!" she said at last.
                    The dear voice faltered, and the tears flashed into Miss Pat's eyes
                        as she confronted me in the woodland path.
                    "Oh, no! It's not so bad as that!" I pleaded.
                    "I tell you she has no soul! You will find it out to your cost. She
                        is made for nothing but mischief in this world!"
                    "I am your humble servant, Miss Holbrook."
                    "Then," she began doubtfully, and meeting my eyes with
                        careful scrutiny, "I am going to ask you to do one thing more for
                        me, that we may settle all this disagreeable affair. I am going to pay Henry
                        his money; but before I do so I must find my brother Arthur, if he is still
                        alive. That may have some difficulties."
                    She looked at me as though for approval; then went on.
                    "I have been thinking of all these matters carefully since I came
                        here. Henry has forfeited his right to further inheritance by his
                        contemptible, cowardly treatment of me; but I am willing to forgive all that
                        he has done. He was greatly provoked; it would not be fair  for me to hold those things against him. As
                        between him and Arthur; as between him and Arthur"
                    Her gaze lay across the twinkling lake, and her voice was tremulous. She
                        spoke softly as though to herself, and I caught phrases of the paragraph of
                        her father's will that Gillespie had read to me: "Dishonor as it is known, accounted and reckoned among
                            men;"and she bowed her head on the veranda rail a moment;
                        then she rose suddenly and smiled bravely through her tears.
                    "Why can't you find Arthur for me? Ah, if you could only
                        find him there might be peace between us all; for I am very old, Larry. Age
                        without peace is like life without hope. I can not believe that Arthur is
                        dead. I must see him again. Larry, if he is alive find him and tell him to
                        come to me."
                    "Yes," I said; "I know where he is!"
                    She started in amazement and coming close, her hands closed upon my arm
                        eagerly.
                    "It can't be possible! You know where he is and you will
                        bring him to me?"
                    She was pitifully eager and the tears were bright in her eyes.
                    "Be assured of it, Miss Holbrook. He is near by and well; but you
                        must not trouble about him or about anything. 
                        And now I am going to take you home. Come! There is much to do, and I must
                        be off. But you will keep a good heart; you are near the end of your
                        difficulties."
                    She was quite herself again when we reached St. Agatha's, but at the
                        door she detained me a moment.
                    "I like you, Larry!" she said, taking my hand; and my own
                        mother had not given me sweeter benediction. "I never intended that
                        Helen should play with you. She may serve me as she likes, but I
                        don't want her to singe your wings, Larry."
                    "I have been shot at in three languages, and half drowned in others,
                        and rewards have been offered for me. Do you think I'm going down
                        before a mere matter of beaux yeux! Think better of me
                        than that!"
                    "But she is treacherous; she will deliver you to the Philistines
                        without losing a heart-beat."
                    "She could, Miss Patricia, but she won't!"
                    "She has every intention of marrying Gillespie; he's the
                        richest man she knows!"
                    "I swear to you that she shall not marry Gillespie!"
                    "She would do it to annoy me if for nothing else."
                    I took both her handsthey were like rose-leaves, those dear slightly
                        tremulous hands!
                    
                    "Now, Miss PatI'm going to call you Miss Pat because
                        we're such old friends, and we're just contemporaries,
                        anyhownow, Miss Pat, Helen is not half so wicked as she thinks she is.
                        Gillespie and I are on the best of terms. He's a thoroughly good
                        fellow and not, half the fool he looks. And he will never marry
                        Helen!"
                    "I should like to know what's going to prevent her from
                        marrying him!" she demanded as I stepped back and turned to go.
                    "Oh, I am, if you must know! I have every intention of marrying her
                        myself!"
                    I ran away from the protest that was faltering upon her lips, and strode
                        through the garden. I had just reached Glenarm gate on my way back to the
                        boat-house when a woman's voice called softly and Sister Margaret
                        hurried round a turn of the garden path.
                    "Mr. Donovan!"
                    There was anxiety in the voice, and more anxious still was Sister
                        Margaret's face as she came toward me in her brown habit, her hands
                        clasped tensely before her. She had evidently been watching for me, and drew
                        back from the gate into a quiet recess of the garden. Her usual repose was
                        gone and her face, under its white coif, showed plainly her distress.
                    
                    "I have bad newsMiss Helen has gone! I'm afraid something
                        has happened to her."
                    "She can't have gone far, Sister Margaret. When did you
                        miss her?" I asked quietly; but I confess that I was badly shaken.
                        My confident talk about the girl with Miss Pat but a moment before echoed
                        ironically in my memory.
                    "She did not come down for breakfast with her aunt or me, but I
                        thought nothing of it, as I have urged both of them to breakfast up-stairs.
                        Miss Patricia went out for a walk. An hour ago I tried Helen's door
                        and found it unlocked and her room empty. When or how she left I
                        don't know. She seems to have taken nothing with her."
                    "Can you tell a lie, Sister Margaret?"
                    She stared at me with so shocked an air that I laughed. "A lie in a
                        good cause, I mean? Miss Pat must, not know that her niece has goneif she
                        has gone! She has probably taken one of the canoes for a morning paddle; or,
                        we will assume that she has borrowed one of the Glenarm horses, as she has
                        every right to do, for a morning gallop, and that she has lost her way or
                        gone farther than she intended. There are a thousand
                        explanations!"
                    "But they hardly touch the fact that she was gone all  night; or that a strange man brought a note
                        addressed in Helen's handwriting to her aunt only an hour
                        ago."
                    "Kidnapped!"and I laughed aloud as the meaning of her
                        disappearance flashed upon me!
                    "I don't like your way of treating this matter!"
                        said Sister Margaret icily. "The girl may die before she can be
                        brought back."
                    "No, she won'tmy word for it, Sister Margaret. Please give
                        me the letter!"
                    "But it is not for you!"
                    "Oh, yes, it is! You wouldn't have Miss Pat subjected to
                        the shock of a demand for ransom. Worse than that, Miss Pat has little
                        enough faith in Helen as it is; and such a move as this would be final. This
                        kidnapping is partly designed as a punishment for me, and I propose to take
                        care of it without letting Miss Pat know. She shall never
                        know!"
                    Sister Margaret, only half convinced, drew an envelope from her girdle and
                        gave it to me doubtfully. I glanced at the superscription and then tore it
                        across, repeating the process until it was a mass of tiny particles, which I
                        poured into Sister Margaret's hands.
                    "Burn them! Now Miss Pat will undoubtedly ask for her niece at once.
                        I suggest that you take care that she  is not
                        distressed by Helen's absence. If it is necessary to reward your
                        house-maid for her discretion" I said with hesitation.
                    "Oh, I disarranged Helen's bed so that the maid
                        wouldn't know!"and Sister Margaret blushed.
                    "Splendid! I can teach you nothing, Sister Margaret! Please help me
                        this much further: get one of Miss Helen's dressesthat blue one she
                        plays tennis in, perhapsand put it in a bag of some kind and give it to my
                        Jap when he calls for it in ten minutes. Now listen to me carefully, Sister
                        Margaret: I shall meet you here at twelve o'clock with a girl who
                        shall be, to all intents and purposes, Helen Holbrook. In fact, she will be
                        some one else. Now I expect you to carry off the situation through luncheon
                        and until nightfall, when I expect to bring Helenthe real Helenback here.
                        Meanwhile, tell Miss Pat anything you like, quoting me!
                        Good-by!"
                    I left her abruptly and was running toward Glenarm House to rouse Ijima, when
                        I bumped into Gillespie, who had been told at the house that I was somewhere
                        in the grounds.
                    "What's doing, Irishman?" he demanded.
                    "Nothing, Buttons; I'm just exercising."
                    His white flannels were as fresh as the morning, and  he wore a little blue cap perehed saucily on the side of his
                        head.
                    "I was pondering," he began, "the futility of
                        man's effort to be helpful toward his fellows."
                    He leaned upon his stick and eyed me with solemn vacuity.
                    "I suppose I'll have to hear it; go on."
                    "I was always told in my youth that when an opportunity to do good
                        offered one should seize upon it at once. No hesitation, no trifling! Only a
                        few years ago I wandered into a little church in a hill town of
                        Massachusetts where I waited for the Boston Express. It was a beautiful
                        Sunday eveningI shall never forget it!" he sighed. "I am
                        uncertain whether I was led thither by good impulse. or only because the
                        pews were more comfortable than the benches at the railway station. I
                        arrived early and an usher seated me up front near a window and gave me an
                        armful of books and a pamphlet on foreign missions. Other people began to
                        come in pretty soon; and then I heard a lot of giggling and a couple of
                        church pillars began chasing a stray dog up and down the aisles. I was
                        placing my money on the taller pillar; he had the best reach of leg, and,
                        besides, the other chap had side whiskers, which are not  good for sprinting,they offer just so much
                        more resistance to the wind. The unseemliness of the thing offended my sense
                        of propriety. The sound of the chase broke in harshly upon my study of Congo
                        missions. After much pursuing the dog sought refuge between my legs. I
                        picked him up tenderly in my arms and dropped him gently, Donovan, gently,
                        from the window. Now wasn't that seizing an opportunity when you
                        found it, so to speak, underfoot?"
                    "No doubt of it at all. Hurry with the rest of it,
                        Buttons!"
                    "Well, that pup fell with a sickening yelp through a skylight into
                        the basement where the choir was vesting itself, and hit a bishopactually
                        struck a young and promising bishop who had never done anything to me. They
                        got the constable and made a horrible row, and besides paying for the
                        skylight I had to give the church a new organ to square myself with the
                        bishop, who was a friend of a friend of mine in Kentucky who once gave me a
                        tip on the Derby. Since then the very thought of foreign missions makes me
                        ill. I always hear that dogit was the usual village mongrel of evil
                        ancestrycrashing through the skylight. What's doing this morning,
                        Irishman?"
                    
                    I linked my arm in his and led the way toward Glenarm House. There was much
                        to be done before I could bring together the warring members of the house of
                        Holbrook, and Gillespie could, I felt, be relied on in emergencies. He broke
                        forth at once.
                    "I want to see herI've got to see her!"
                    "WhoHelen? Then you'll have to wait a while, for
                        she's gone for a paddle or a gallop, I'm not sure which,
                        and won't be back for a couple of hours. But you have grown too
                        daring. Miss Pat is still here, and you can't expect me to arrange
                        meetings for you every day in the year."
                    "I've got to see her," he repeated, and his tone
                        was utterly joyless. "I don't understand her,
                        Donovan."
                    "Man is not expected to understand woman, my dear Buttons. At the
                        casino last night everything was as gay as an octogenarian's
                        birthday cake."
                    He stopped in the shadow of the house and seized my arm.
                    "You told her something about me last night. She was all right until
                        you took her away and talked with her at the casino. On the way home she was
                        moody and queera different girl altogether. You are not on the square; you
                        are playing on too many sides of this game."
                    
                    You're in love, that's all. These suspicions and
                        apprehensions are leading symptoms. Up there at the casino, with the water
                        washing beneath and the stars overhead and the band playing waltzes, a spell
                        was upon you both. Even a hardened old sinner like me could feel it.
                        I've had palpitations all day! Cheer up! In your own happy phrase,
                        everything points to plus."
                    "I tell you she turned on me, and that you are responsible for
                        it?"and he glared at me angrily.
                    "Now, Buttons! You're not going to take that attitude
                        toward me, after all I have done for you! I really took some trouble to
                        arrange that little meeting last night; and here you come with sad eye and
                        mournful voice and rebuke me!"
                    "I tell you she was different. She had never been so kind to me as
                        she was there at the casino; but as we came back she changed, and was ready
                        to fling me aside. I asked her to leave this place and marry me to-day, and
                        she only laughed at me!"
                    "Now, Buttons, you are letting your imagination get the better of
                        your common sense. If you're going to take your lady's
                        moods so hard you'd better give up trying to understand the ways of
                        woman. It's wholly possible that Helen was tired and
                        didn't want to be made love to. It 
                        seems to me that you are singularly lacking in consideration. But I
                        can't talk to you all morning; I have other things to do; but if
                        you will find a cool corner of the house and look at picture-books until
                        I'm free I'll promise to be best man for you when
                        you're married; and I predict your marriage before Christmasa happy
                        union of the ancient houses of Holbrook and Gillespie. Run along like a good
                        boy and don't let Miss Pat catch sight of you."
                    "Do you keep a goat, a donkey or a muleany of the more ruminative
                        animals?" he asked with his saddest intonation.
                    "The cook keeps a parrot, and there's a donkey in one of
                        the pastures."
                    "Good. Are his powers of vocalization unimpaired?"
                        "First rate. I occasionally hear his vesper hymn. He's in
                        good voice."
                    "Then I may speak to him, soul to soul, if I find that I bore
                        myself."
                    We climbed the steps to the cool shadows of the terrace. As we stood a moment
                        looking out on the lake we saw, far away toward the northern shore, the Stiletto, that seemed just to have slipped out from the
                        lower lake. The humor of the situation pleased me; Helen  was off there in the sloop playing at being
                        kidnapped to harass her aunt into coming to terms with Henry Holbrook, and
                        she was doubtless rejoicing in the fact that she had effected a combination
                        of events that would make her father's case irresistible.
                    But there was no time to lose. I made Gillespie comfortable indoors and sent
                        Ijima to get the bag I had asked for; and a few minutes later the launch was
                        skimming over the water toward the canoe-maker's house at Red
                        Gate.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIII
                    THE ROCKET SIGNAL
                    
                        Blow up the trumpet in the new moon.
                        
                            The Psalter.
                    
                    Rosalind was cutting sweet peas in the garden where they climbed high upon a
                        filmy net, humming softly to herself. She was culling out white ones, which
                        somehow suggested her own white butterfliesa proper business for any girl on
                        a sunny morning, with the dew still bright where the shadows lay, with
                        bird-wings flashing about her, and the kindliest of airs blowing her
                        hair.
                    "A penny for your thoughts!" I challenged.
                    She snipped an imaginary flower from the air in my direction.
                    "Keep your money! I was not thinking of you! You wear. sir, an
                        intent commercial air; have you thread and needles in your
                        pack?"
                    "It is ordained that we continue the game of last night. To-day you
                        are to invade the very citadel and  deceive
                        your aunt. Your cousin has left without notice and the situation demands
                        prompt action."
                    I was already carrying the suit-case toward the house, explaining as we
                        walked along together.
                    "But was I so successful last night? Was he really deceived, or did
                        he just play that he was?"
                    "He's madly in love with you. You stole away all his
                        senses. But he thought you changed toward him unaccountably on the way
                        home."
                    "But why didn't she tell him?she must have told
                        him."
                    "Oh, I took care of that! I rather warned her against betraying us.
                        And now she's trying to punish me by being kidnapped!"
                    Rosalind paused at the threshold, gathering the stems of the sweet peas in
                        her hands.
                    "Do you think," she began, "do you think he really
                        liked meI mean the real me?"
                    "Like you! That is not the right word for it. He's gloomily
                        dreaming of youthe real youat this very moment over at Glenarm. But do
                        hasten into these things that Sister Margaret picked out for you. I must see
                        your father before I carry you off. We've no time to waste, I can
                        tell you!"
                    
                    The canoe-maker heard my story in silence and shook his head.
                    "It is impossible; we should only get into deeper trouble. I have no
                        great faith in this resemblance. It may have worked once on young Gillespie,
                        but women have sharper eyes."
                    "But it must be tried!" I pleaded. "We are
                        approaching the end of these troubles, and nothing must be allowed to
                        interfere. Your sister wishes to see you; this is her
                        birthday."
                    "So it is! So it is!" exclaimed the canoe-maker with
                        feeling.
                    "Helen must be saved from her own folly. Her aunt must not know of
                        this latest exploit; it would ruin everything."
                    As we debated Rosalind joined her persuasions to mine.
                    "Aunt Pat must not know what Helen has done if we can help
                        it," she said.
                    While she changed her clothes I talked on at the house-boat with her
                        father.
                    "My sister has asked for me?"
                    "Yes; your sister is ready to settle with Henry; but she wishes to
                        see you first. She has begged me to find  you;
                        but Helen must go back to her aunt. This fraudulent kidnapping must never be
                        known to Miss Pat. And on the other hand, I hope it may not be necessary for
                        Helen to know the truth about her father."
                    "I dare say she would sacrifice my own daughter quickly
                        enough," he said.
                    "No; you are wrong; I do not believe it! She is making no war on
                        you, or on her aunt! It's against me! She enjoys a contest;
                        she's trying to beat me."
                    "She believes that I forged the Gillespie notes and ruined her
                        father. Henry has undoubtedly told her so."
                    "Yes; and he has used her to get them away from young Gillespie.
                        There's no question about that. But I have the notes, and I propose
                        holding them for your protection. But I don't want to use them if I
                        can help it."
                    "I appreciate what you are doing for me," he said quietly,
                        but his eyes were still troubled and I saw that he had little faith in the
                        outcome.
                    "Your sister is disposed to deal generously with Henry. She does not
                        know where the dishonor lies."
                    "'We are all honorable men,'" he replied
                        bitterly, slowly pacing the floor. His sleeves were rolled away from his
                        sun-browned arms, his shirt was open at the 
                        throat, and though he wore the rough clothes of a mechanic he looked more
                        the artist at work in a rural studio than the canoe-maker of the Tippecanoe.
                        He walked to a window and looked down for a moment upon the singing creek,
                        then came back to me and spoke in a different tone.
                    "I have given these years of my life to protecting my brother, and
                        they must not be wasted. I have nothing to say against him; I shall keep
                        silent."
                    "He has forfeited every right. Now is your time to punish
                        him," I said; but Arthur Holbrook only looked at me pityingly.
                    "I don't want revenge, Mr. Donovan, but I am almost in a
                        mood for justice," he said with a rueful smile; and just then
                        Rosalind entered the shop.
                    "Is my fate decided?" she demanded.
                    The sight of her seemed to renew the canoe-maker's distress, and I
                        led the way at once to the door. I think that in spite of my efforts to be
                        gay and to carry the affair off lightly, we all felt that the day was
                        momentous.
                    "When shall I expect you back?" asked Holbrook, when we had
                        reached the launch.
                    "Early to-night," I answered.
                    "But if anything should happen here?" The tears  flashed in Rosalind's eyes, and she
                        clung a moment to his hand.
                    "He will hardly be troubled by daylight, and this evening he can
                        send up a rocket if any one molests him. Go ahead, Ijima!"
                    As we cleared Battle Orchard and sped on toward Glenarm there was a sting in
                        the wind, and Lake Annandale had fretted itself into foam. We saw the Stiletto running prettily before the wind along the
                        Glenarm shore, and I stopped the engine before crossing her wake and let the
                        launch jump the waves. Helen would not, I hoped, believe me capable of
                        attempting to palm off Rosalind on Miss Pat; and I had no wish to undeceive
                        her. My passenger had wrapped herself in my mackintosh and taken my cap, so
                        that at the distance at which we passed she was not recognizable.
                    Sister Margaret was waiting for us at the Glenarm pier. I had been a little
                        afraid of Sister Margaret. It was presuming a good deal to take her into the
                        conspiracy, and I stood by in apprehension while she scrutinized Rosalind.
                        She was clearly bewildered and drew close to the girl, as Rosalind threw off
                        the wet mackintosh and flung down the dripping cap.
                    "Will she do, Sister Margaret?"
                    
                    "I believe she will; I really believe she will!" And the
                        Sister's face brightened with relief. She had a color in her face
                        that I had not seen before, as the joy of the situation took hold of her.
                        She was, I realized, a woman after all, and a young woman at that, with a
                        heart not hardened against life's daily adventures.
                    "It is time for luncheon. Miss Pat expects you, too."
                    "Then I must leave you to instruct Miss Holbrook and carry off the
                        first meeting. Miss Holbrook has been"
                    "For a long walk"the Sister supplied"and will
                        enter St. Agatha's parlor a little tired from her tramp. She shall
                        go at once to her roomwith me. I have put out a white gown for her; and at
                        luncheon we will talk only of safe things."
                    "And I shall have this bouquet of sweet peas," added
                        Rosalind, "that I brought from a farmer's garden near by,
                        as an offering for Aunt Pat's birthday. And you will both be there
                        to keep me from making mistakes."
                    "Then after luncheon we shall drive until Miss Pat's
                        birthday dinner; and the dinner shall be on the terrace at Glenarm, which is
                        even now being decorated for a fte occasion. And before the night is old
                        Helen shall be back. Good luck attend us all!" I said; and we
                        parted in the best of spirits.
                    
                    I had forgotten Gillespie, and was surprised to find him at the table in my
                        room, absorbed in business papers.
                    "'Button, button, who's got the
                        button!'" he chanted as he looked me over. "You
                        appear to have been swimming in your clothes. I had my mail sent out here.
                        I've got to shut down the factory at Ponsocket. The thought of it
                        bores me extravagantly. What time's luncheon?"
                    "Whenever you ring three times. I'm lunching
                        out."
                    "Ladies?" he asked, raising his brows. "You appear
                        to be a little social favorite; couldn't you get me in on
                        something? How about dinner?"
                    "I am myself entertaining at dinner; and your name isn't on
                        the list, I'm sorry to say, Buttons. But tomorrow! Everything will
                        be possible to-morrow. I expect Miss Pat and Helen here to-night.
                        It's Miss Pat's birthday, and I want to make it a happy
                        day for her. She's going to settle with Henry as soon as some
                        preliminaries are arranged, so the war's nearly over."
                    "She can't settle with him until something definite is
                        known about Arthur. If he's really dead"
                    "I've promised to settle that; but I must hurry now. Will
                        you meet me at the Glenarm boat-house at eight?
                    
                    If I'm not there wait. I shall have something for you to
                        do."
                    "Meanwhile I'm turned out of your house, am I? But I
                        positively decline to go until I'm fed."
                    As I got into a fresh coat he played a lively tune on the electric bell, and
                        I left him giving his orders to the butler.
                    I was reassured by the sound of voices as I passed under the windows of St.
                        Agatha's, and Sister Margaret met me in the hall with a smiling
                        face.
                    "Luncheon waits. We will go out at once. Everything has passed off
                        smoothly, perfectly."
                    I did not dare look at Rosalind until we were seated in the dining-room. Her
                        sweet peas graced the center of the round table, and Sister Margaret had
                        placed them in a tall vase so that Rosalind was well screened from her
                        aunt's direct gaze. The Sister had managed admirably.
                        Rosalind's hair was swept up in exactly Helen's pompadour;
                        and in one of Helen's white gowns, with Helen's own
                        particular shade of scarlet ribbon at her throat and waist, the resemblance
                        was even more complete than I had thought it before. But we were cast at
                        once upon deep waters.
                    "Helen, where did you find that article on Charles  Lamb you read the other evening? I have
                        looked for it everywhere."
                    Rosalind took rather more time than was necessary to help herself to the
                        asparagus, and my heart sank; but Sister Margaret promptly saved the
                        day.
                    "It was in the Round World. That article we were
                        reading on The Authorship of the Collects is in the same
                        number."
                    "Yes; of course," said Rosalind, turning to me.
                    Art seemed a safe topic; and I steered for the open, and spoke in a large
                        way, out of my ignorance, of Michelangelo's influence, winding up
                        presently with a suggestion that Miss Pat should have her portrait painted.
                        This was a successful stroke, for we all fell into a discussion of
                        contemporaneous portrait painters about whom Sister Margaret fortunately
                        knew something; but a cold chill went down my back a moment later when Miss
                        Pat turned upon Rosalind and asked her a direct question:
                    "Helen, what was the name of the artist who did that miniature of
                        your mother?"
                    Sister Margaret swallowed a glass of water, and I stooped to pick up my
                        napkin.
                    "Van Arsdel, wasn't it?" asked Rosalind
                        instantly.
                    
                    Yes; so it was," replied Miss Pat. Luck was favoring us, and
                        Rosalind was rising to the emergency splendidly. It appeared afterward that
                        her own mother had been painted by the same artist, and she had boldly
                        risked the guess. Sister Margaret and I were frightened into a discussion of
                        the possibilities of arial navigation, with a vague notion, I think, of
                        keeping the talk in the air, and it sufficed until we had concluded the
                        simple luncheon. I walked beside Miss Pat to the parlor. The sky had
                        cleared, and I broached a drive at once. I had read in the newspapers that a
                        considerable body of regular troops was passing near Annandale on a practice
                        march from Fort Sheridan to a rendezvous somewhere to the south of us.
                    "Let us go and see the soldiers," I suggested.
                    "Very well, Larry," she said. "We can make believe
                        they are sent out to do honor to my birthday. You are a thoughtful boy. I
                        can never thank you for all your consideration and kindness. And you will
                        not fail to find Arthur,I am asking you no questions; I'd rather
                        not know where he is. I'm afraid of truth!" She turned her
                        head away quicklywe were seated by ourselves in a corner of the room.
                        "I am afraid, I am afraid to ask!"
                    
                    "He is well; quite well. I shall have news of him
                        to-night."
                    She glanced across the room to where Rosalind and Sister Margaret talked
                        quietly together. I felt Miss Pat's hand touch mine, and suddenly
                        there were tears in her eyes.
                    "I was wrong! I was most unjust in what I said to you of her. She
                        was all tenderness, all gentleness when she came in this morning."
                        She fumbled at her belt and held up a small cluster of the sweet peas that
                        Rosalind had brought from Red Gate.
                    "I told you so!" I said, trying to laugh off her
                        contrition. "What you said to me is forgotten, Miss
                        Pat."
                    "And now when everything is settled, if she wants to marry
                        Gillespie, let her do it."
                    "But she won't! Haven't I told you that Helen
                        shall never marry him?"
                    I had ordered a buckboard, and it was now announced. "Don't
                        trouble to go up-stairs, Aunt Pat; I will bring your things for
                        you," said Rosalind; and Miss Pat turned upon me with an air of
                        satisfaction and pride, as much as to say, "You see how devoted she
                        is to me!"
                    I wish to acknowledge here my obligations to Sister Margaret for giving me
                        the benefit of her care and  resourcefulness
                        on that difficult day. There was no nice detail that she overlooked, no
                        danger that she did not anticipate. She sat by Miss Pat on the long drive,
                        while Rosalind and I chattered nonsense behind them. We were so fortunate as
                        to strike the first battalion, and saw it go into camp on a bit of open
                        prairie to await the arrival of the artillery that followed. But at no time
                        did I lose sight of the odd business that still lay ahead of me, nor did I
                        remember with any satisfaction how Helen, somewhere across woodland and
                        lake, chafed at the delayed climax of her plot. The girl at my side, lovely
                        and gracious as she was, struck me increasingly as but a tame shadow of that
                        other one, so like and so unlike! I marveled that Miss Pat had not seen it;
                        and in a period of silence on the drive home I think Rosalind must have
                        guessed my thought; for I caught her regarding me with a mischievous smile
                        and she said, as Miss Pat and Sister Margaret rather too generously sought
                        to ignore us:
                    "You can see now how different I amhow very different!"
                    When I left them at St. Agatha's with an hour to spare before
                        dinner, Sister Margaret assured me with her eyes that there was nothing to
                        fear.
                    
                    I was nervously pacing the long terrace when I saw my guests approaching. I
                        told the butler to order dinner at once and went down to meet them. Miss Pat
                        declared that she never felt better; and under the excitement of the hour
                        Sister Margaret's eyes glowed brightly.
                    "Sister Margaret is wonderful!" whispered Rosalind.
                    "Aren't my clothes becoming? She found them and got me into
                        them; and she has kept me away from Aunt Pat and taken me over the hard
                        places wonderfully. I really don't know who I am," she
                        laughed; "but it's quite clear that you have seen the
                        difference. I must play up now and try to be brilliantlike Helen!"
                        she said. "I can tell by the things in Helen's room, that
                        I'm much less sophisticated. I found his photograph, by the
                        way!"
                    "What!" I cried so abruptly that the others turned and
                        looked at us. Rosalind laughed in honest glee.
                    "Mr. Gillespie's photograph. I think I shall keep it. It
                        was upside down in a trunk where Sister Margaret told me I should find these
                        pretty slippers. Do you know, this playing at being somebody else is
                        positively uncanny. But this gownisn't it fetching?"
                    "It's pink, isn't it? You said that photograph was
                        face down, didn't you?"
                    
                    "It was! And at the very bottom under a pair of
                        overshoes."
                    "Well, I hope you will be good to him," I
                        observed.
                    "Mr. Donovan," she said, in a mocking tone that was so like
                        Helen's that I stared stupidly, "Mr. Donovan, you are a
                        person of amazing penetration!"
                    As we sat down in the screened corner of the broad terrace, with the first
                        grave approach of twilight in the sky, and the curved trumpet of the young
                        moon hanging in the west, it might have seemed to an onlooker that the gods
                        of chance had oddly ordered our little company. Miss Patricia in white was a
                        picture of serenity, with the smile constant about her lips, happy in her
                        hope for the future. Rosalind, fresh to these surroundings, showed clearly
                        her pleasure in the pretty setting of the scene, and read into it, in bright
                        phrases, the delight of a story-book incident.
                    "Let me see," she said reflectively, "just who we
                        are: we are the lady of the eastle perilous dining al
                            fresco, with the abbess, who is also a noble lady, come across the
                        fields to sit at meat with her. And you, sir, are a knight full orgulous,
                        feared in many lands, and sworn to the defense of these
                        ladies."
                    "And you,"and Miss Pat's eyes were beautifully  kind and gentle, as she took the cue and
                        turned to Rosalind, "you are the well-loved daughter of my house,
                        faithful in all service, in all ways self-forgetful and kind, our hope, our
                        joy and our pride."
                    It may have been the spirit of the evening that touched us, or only the light
                        of her countenance and the deep sincerity of her voice; but I knew that
                        tears were bright in all our eyes for a moment. And then Rosalind glanced at
                        the western heavens through the foliage.
                    "There are the stars, Aunt Patbrighter than ever to-night for your
                        birthday."
                    Presently, as the dark gathered about us, the candles were lighted, and their
                        glow shut out the world. To my relief the three women carried the talk
                        alone, leaving me to my own thoughts of Helen and my plans for restoring her
                        to her aunt with no break in the new confidence that Rosalind had inspired.
                        I had so completely yielded myself to this undercurrent of reflection that I
                        was startled to find Miss Pat with the coffee service before her.
                    "Larry, you are dreaming. How can I remember whether you take
                        sugar?"
                    Sister Margaret's eyes were upon me reproachfully for my
                        inattention, and my heart-beats quickened as 
                        eight strokes of the chapel chime stole lingeringly through the quiet air. I
                        had half-raised my cup when I was startled by a question from Miss Pata
                        request innocent enough and spoken, it seemed, utterly without
                        intention.
                    "Let me see your ring a moment, Helen."
                    Sister Margaret flashed a glance of inquiry at me, but Rosalind met the
                        situation instantly.
                    "Certainly, Aunt Pat,"and she slipped the ring from her
                        finger, passed it across the table, and folded her hands quietly upon the
                        white cloth. She did not look at me, but I saw her breath come and go
                        quickly. If the rings were not the same then we were undone. This thought
                        gripped the three of us, and I heard my cup beating a tattoo on the edge of
                        my saucer in the tense silence, while Miss Pat bent close to the candle
                        before her and studied the ring, turning it over slowly. Rosalind half
                        opened her lips to speak, at Sister Margaret's snowy hand clasped
                        the girl's fingers. The little circlet of gold with its beautiful
                        green stone had been to me one of the convincing items of the remarkable
                        resemblance between the cousins; but if there should be some differentiating
                        mark Miss Pat was not so stupid as to overlook it.
                    
                    Miss Pat put down the ring abruptly, and looked at Rosalind and then smiled
                        quizzically at me.
                    "You are a clever boy, Larry."
                    Then, turning to Rosalind, Miss Pat remarked, with the most casual air
                        imaginable:
                    "Helen pronounces either with the long e. I noticed at Iuncheon that
                        you say eyether. Where's your father, Rosalind?"
                    My eyes were turning from her to Rosalind when, on her last word, as though
                        by prearranged signal, far across the water, against the dark shadows of the
                        lake's remoter shore, a rocket's spent ball broke and
                        flung its stars against the night.
                    I spoke no word, but leaped over the stone balustrade and ran to the
                        boat-house where Gillespie waited.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIV
                    "WITH MY HANDS"
                    
                        
                            Maybe in spite of their tameless days
                            Of outcast liberty,
                            They're sick at heart for the homely ways
                            Where their gathered brothers be.
                        
                        
                            And oft at night, when the plains fall dark
                            And hills loom large and dim,
                            For the shepherd's voice they mutely hark,
                            And their souls go out to him.
                        
                        
                            Meanwhile "Black sheep! black sheep!" we
                                cry,
                            Safe in the inner fold:
                            And maybe they hear, and wonder why,
                            And marvel, out in the cold.
                        
                        
                            Richard Burton
                        
                    
                    Gillespie was smoking his pipe on the boat-house steps. He had come over from
                        the village in his own launch, which tossed placidly beside mine. Ijima
                        stepped forward promptly with a lantern as I ran out upon the planking of
                        the pier.
                    "Jump into my launch, Gillespie, and be in a hurry!" and to
                        my relief he obeyed without his usual parley. Ijima cast us off, the engine
                        sputtered a moment, and  then the launch got
                        away. I bade Gillespie steer, and when we were free of the pier told him to
                        head for the Tippecanoe.
                    The handful of stars that had brightened against the sky had been a real
                        shock, and I accused myself in severe terms for having left Arthur Holbrook
                        alone. As we swept into the open Glenarm House stood forth from the
                        encircling wood, marked by the bright lights of the terrace where Miss Pat
                        had, with so much composure and in so few words, made comedy of my attempt
                        to shield Helen. I had certainly taken chances, but I had reckoned only with
                        a man's wits, which, to say the least, are not a woman's;
                        and I had contrived a new situation and had now incurred the wrath and
                        indignation of three women where there had been but one before! In throwing
                        off my coat my hand touched the envelope containing the forged notes which I
                        had thrust into my pocket before dinner, and the contact sobered me; there
                        was still a chance for me to be of use. But at the thought of what might be
                        occurring at the house-boat on the Tippecanoe I forced the launch's
                        speed to the limit. Gillespie still maintained silence, grimly clenching his
                        empty pipe. He now roused himself and bawled at me:
                    "Did you ever meet the coroner of this county?"
                    
                    "No!" I shouted.
                    "Well, you willcoming down! You'll blow up in about three
                        minutes."
                    I did not slow down until we reached Battle Orchard, where it was necessary
                        to feel our way across the shallow channel. Here I shut off the power and
                        paddled with an ar.
                    As we floated by the island a lantern flashed at the water's edge
                        and disappeared. But my first errand was at the canoe-maker's; the
                        whereabouts of Helen and the Stiletto were questions that
                        must wait.
                    We were soon creeping along the margin of the second lake seeking the creek,
                        whose intake quickly lay hold of us.
                    "We'll land just inside, on the west bank,
                        Gillespie." A moment later we jumped out and secured the launch. I
                        wrapped our lantern in Gillespie's coat, and ran up the bank to the
                        path. At the top I turned and spoke to him.
                    "You'll have to trust me. I don't know what may be
                        happening here, but surely our interests are the same tonight."
                    He caught me roughly by the arm.
                    "If this means any injury to Helen"
                    
                    "No! It is for her!" And he followed silently at my heels
                        toward Red Gate.
                    The calm of the summer night lay upon the creek that babbled drowsily in its
                        bed. We seemed to have this corner of the world to ourselves, and the thump
                        of our feet in the path broke heavily on the night silence. As we crossed
                        the lower end of the garden I saw the cottage mistily outlined among the
                        trees near the highway, and, remembering Gillespie's unfamiliarity
                        with the place, I checked my pace to guide him. I caught a glimpse of the
                        lights of the house-boat below.
                    The voices of two men in loud debate rang out sharply upon us through the
                        open windows of the house-boat as we crept down upon the deck. Then followed
                        the sound of blows, and the rattle of furniture knocked about, and as we
                        reached the door a lamp fell with a crash and the place was dark. We seemed
                        to strike matches at the same instant, and as they blazed upon their sticks
                        we looked down upon Arthur Holbrook, who lay sprawling with his arms
                        outflung on the floor, and over him stood his brother with hands clenched,
                        his face twitching.
                    "I have killed himI have killed him!" he muttered several
                        times in a low whisper. "I had to do it. There was no other
                        way."
                    
                    My blood went cold at the thought that we were too late. Gillespie was
                        fumbling about, striking matches, and I was somewhat reassured by the sound
                        of my own voice as I called him.
                    "There are candles at the sidemake a light, Gillespie."
                    And soon we were taking account of one another in the soft candle-light.
                    "I must go," said Henry huskily, looking stupidly down upon
                        his brother, who lay quite still, his head resting on his arm.
                    "You will stay," I said; and I stood beside him while
                        Gillespie filled a pail at the creek and laved Arthur's wrists and
                        temples with cool water. We worked a quarter of an hour before he gave any
                        signs of life; but when he opened his eyes Henry flung himself down in a
                        chair and mopped his forehead.
                    "He is not dead," he said, grinning foolishly.
                    "Where is Helen?" I demanded.
                    "She's safe," he replied cunningly, nodding his
                        head. "I suppose Pat has sent you to take her back. She may go, if
                        you have brought my money." Cunning and greed, and the marks of
                        drink, had made his face repulsive. Gillespie got Arthur to his feet a
                        moment later, and I  gave him brandy from a
                        flask in the cupboard. His brother's restoration seemed now to
                        amuse Henry.
                    "It was a mere love-tap. You're tougher than you look,
                        Arthur. It's the simple life down here in the woods. My own nerves
                        are all gone." He turned to me with the air of dominating the
                        situation. "I'm glad you've come, you and our
                        friend of button fame. Rivals, gentlemen? A friendly rivalry for my
                        daughter's hand flatters the house of Holbrook. Between ourselves I
                        favor you, Mr. Donovan; the button-making business is profitable, but damned
                        vulgar. Now, Helen"
                    "That will do!"and I clapped my hand on his shoulder
                        roughly. "I have business with you. Your sister is ready to settle
                        with you; but she wishes to see Arthur first."
                    "Nono! She must not see him!" He leaped forward and caught
                        hold of me. "She must not see him!"and his cowardly fear
                        angered me anew.
                    "You will do, Mr. Holbrook, very much as I tell you in this matter.
                        I intend that your sister shall see her brother Arthur to-night, and time
                        flies. This last play of yours, this flimsy trick of kidnapping, was sprung
                        at a very unfortunate moment. It has delayed the settlement and done a grave
                        injury to your daughter."
                    
                    "Helen would have it; it was her idea!"
                    "If you speak of your daughter again in such a way I will break your
                        neck and throw you into the creek!"
                    He stared a moment, then laughed aloud.
                    "So you are the oneare you? I really thought it was
                        Buttons."
                    "I am the one, Mr. Holbrook. And now I am going to take your brother
                        to your sister. She has asked for him, and she is waiting."
                    Arthur Holbrook came gravely toward us, and I have never been so struck with
                        pity for a man as I was for him. There was a red circle on his brow where
                        Henry's knuckles had cut, but his eyes showed no anger; they were
                        even kind with the tenderness that lies in the eyes of women who have
                        suffered. He advanced a step nearer his brother and spoke slowly and
                        distinctly.
                    "You have nothing to fear, Henry. I shall tell her
                        nothing."
                    "But"Henry glanced uneasily from Gillespie to
                        me"Gillespie's notes. They are here among you somewhere.
                        You shall not give them to Pat. If she knew"
                    "If she knew you would not get a cent," I said, wishing him
                        to know that I knew.
                    He whirled upon me hotly.
                    
                    "You tricked Helen to get them, and now, by God! I want them! I want
                        them!" And he struck at me crazily. I knocked his arm away, but he
                        flung himself upon me, clasping me with his arms. I caught his wrists and
                        held him for a moment. I wished to be done with him and off to Glenarm with
                        Arthur; and he wasted time.
                    "I have that packet you sent Helen to getI have itstill unopened!
                        Your secret is as safe with me, Mr. Holbrook, as that other secret of yours
                        with your Italian body-guard."
                    His face went white, then gray, and he would have fallen if I had not kept
                        hold of him.
                    "Will you not be decentreasonablesanefor an hour, till we can
                        present you as an honorable man to your sister? If you will not, your sailor
                        shall deliver you to the law with his own hands. You delay
                        matterscan't you see that we are your friends, that we are trying
                        to protect you, that we are ready to lie to your sister that we may be rid
                        of you?"
                    I was beside myself with rage and impatient that time must be wasted on him.
                        I did not hear steps on the deck, or Gillespie's quick warning, and
                        I had begun again, still holding Henry Holbrook close to me with one
                        hand.
                    
                    
                        "For God's sake, stop!" Page 373
                    
                    
                    "We expect to deceive your sisterwe will lie to herlie to herlie to
                        her"
                    "For God's sake, stop!" cried Arthur Holbrock,
                        clutching my arm.
                    I flung round and faced Miss Pat and Rosalind. They stood for a moment in the
                        doorway; then Miss Pat advanced slowly toward us where we formed a little
                        semicircle, and as I dropped Henry's wrists the brothers stood side
                        by side. Arthur took a step forward, half murmuring his sister's
                        name; then he drew back and waited, his head bowed, his hands thrust into
                        the side pockets of his coat. In the dead quiet I heard the babble of the
                        creek outside, and when Miss Pat spoke her voice seemed to steal off and
                        mingle with the subdued murmur of the stream.
                    "Gentlemen, what is it you wish to lie to me about?"
                    A brave little smile played about Miss Pat's lips. She stood there
                        in the light of the candles, all in white as I had left her on the terrace
                        of Glenarm, in her lace cap, with only a light shawl about her shoulders. I
                        felt that the situation might yet be saved, and I was about to speak when
                        Henry, with some wild notion of justifying himself, broke out
                        stridently:
                    "Yes; they meant to lie to you! They plotted against  me and hounded me when I wished to see you
                        peaceably and to make amends. They have now charged me with murder; they are
                        ready to swear away my honor, my life. I am glad you are here that you may
                        see for yourself how they are against me."
                    He broke off a little grandly, as though convinced by his own words.
                    "Yes; father speaks the truth, as Mr. Donovan can tell
                        you!"
                    I could have sworn that it was Rosalind who spoke; but there by
                        Rosalind's side in the doorway stood Helen. Her head was lifted,
                        and she faced us all with her figure tense, her eyes blazing. Rosalind drew
                        away a little, and I saw Gillespie touch her hand. It was as though a
                        quicker sense than sight had on the instant undeceived him; but he did not
                        look at Rosalind; his eyes were upon the angry girl who was about to speak
                        again. Miss Pat glanced about, and her eyes rested on me.
                    "Larry, what were the lies you were going to tell me?" she
                        asked, and smiled again.
                    "They were about father; he wished to involve him in dishonor. But
                        he shall not, he shall not!" cried Helen.
                    "Is that true, Larry?" asked Miss Pat.
                    "I have done the best I could," I replied evasively.
                    
                    Miss Pat scrutinized us all slowly as though studying our faces for the
                        truth. Then she repeated:
                    
                        "But if either of my said sons shall have been touched
                            by dishonor through his own act, as honor is accounted, reckoned and
                            valued among men" and ceased abruptly, looking from Arthur
                        to Henry. "What was the truth about Gillespie?" she
                        asked.
                    And Arthur would have spoken. I saw the word that would have saved his
                        brother formed upon his lips.
                    Miss Pat alone seemed unmoved; I saw her hand open and shut at her side as
                        she controlled herself, but her face was calm and her voice was steady when
                        she turned appealingly to the canoe-maker.
                    "What is the truth, Arthur?" she asked quietly.
                    "Why go into this now? Why not let bygones be bygones?"and
                        for a moment I thought I had checked the swift current. It was Helen I
                        wished to save now, from herself, from the avalanche she seemed doomed to
                        bring down upon her head.
                    "I will hear what you have to say, Arthur," said Miss Pat;
                        and I knew that there was no arresting the tide. I snatched out the sealed
                        envelope and turned with it to Arthur Holbrook; and he took it into his
                        hands and turned it over quietly, though his hands trembled.
                    
                    "Tell me the truth, gentlemen!"and Miss Pat's
                        voice thrilled now with anger.
                    "Trickery, more trickery; those were stolen from Helen!"
                        blurted Henry, his eyes on the envelope; but we were waiting for the
                        canoe-maker to speak, and Henry's words rang emptily in the
                        shop.
                    Arthur looked at his brother; then he faced his sister.
                    "Henry is not guilty," he said calmly.
                    He turned with a quick gesture and thrust the envelope into the flame of one
                        of the candles; but Helen sprang forward and caught away the blazing packet
                        and smothered the flame between her hands.
                    "We will keep the proof," she said in a tone of triumph;
                        and I knew then how completely she had believed in her father.
                    "I don't know what is in that packet," said
                        Gillespie slowly, speaking for the first time. "It has never been
                        opened. My lawyer told me that father had sworn to a statement about the
                        trouble with Holbrook Brothers and placed it with the notes. My father was a
                        peculiar man in some ways," continued Gillespie, embarrassed by the
                        attention that was now riveted upon him. "His lawyer told me that I
                        was to open that packagebeforebefore marrying into"and he grew red
                        and stammered helplessly,  with his eyes on
                        the floor"before marrying into the Holbrook family. I gave up that
                        packet"and he hesitated, coloring, and turning from Helen to
                        Rosalind"by mistake. But it's mine, and I demand it
                        now."
                    "I wish Aunt Pat to open the envelope," said Rosalind, very
                        white.
                    Henry turned a look of appeal upon his brother; but Miss Pat took the
                        envelope from Helen and tore it open; and we stood by as though we waited
                        for death or watched earth fall upon a grave. She bent down to one of the
                        candles nearest her and took out the notes, which were wrapped in a sheet of
                        legal cap. A red seal brightened in the light, and we heard the slight
                        rattle of the paper in her tremulous fingers as she read. Suddenly a tear
                        flashed upon the white sheet. When she had quite finished she gathered
                        Gillespie's statement and the notes in her hand and turned and gave
                        them to Henry; but she did not speak to him or meet his eyes. She crossed to
                        where Arthur stood beside me, his head bowed, and as she advanced he turned
                        away; but her arms stole over his shoulders and she said
                        "Arthur" once, and again very softly.
                    "I think," she said, turning toward us all, with her sweet
                        dignity, her brave air, that touched me as at first  and always, beyond any words of mine to describe, but strong
                        and beautiful and sweet and thrilling through me now, like bugles blown at
                        dawn; "I think that we do well, Arthur, to give Henry his
                        money."
                    And now it was Arthur's voice that rose in the shop; and it seemed
                        that he spoke of his brother as of one who was afar off. We listened with
                        painful intentness to this man who had suffered much and given much, and who
                        still, in his simple heart, asked no praise for what he had done.
                    "He was so strong, and I was weak; and I did for him what I could.
                        And what I gave, I gave freely, for it is not often in this world that the
                        weak may help the strong. He had the gifts, Pat, that I had not, and troops
                        of friends; and he had ambitions that in my weakness I was not capable of;
                        so I had not much to give. But what I had, Pat, I gave to him; I went to
                        Gillespie and confessed; I took the blame; and I came here and worked with
                        my handswith my hands" And he extended them as though the proof
                        were asked; and kept repeating, between his sobs, "With my
                        hands."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXV
                    DAYBREAK
                    
                        
                            Just as of old! The world rolls on and on;
                            The day dies into nightnight into dawn
                            Dawn into duskthrough centuries untold.
                            Just as of old.
                        
                        
                            Lo! where is the beginning, where the end
                            Of living, loving, longing? Listen,
                                friend!
                            God answers with a silence of pure gold
                            Just as of old.
                        
                        
                            James Whitcomb Riley.
                        
                    
                    At midnight Gillespie and I discussed the day's affairs on the
                        terrace at Glenarm. There were long pauses in our talk. Such things as we
                        had seen and heard that night, in the canoe-maker's shop on the
                        little creek, were beyond our poor range of words. And in the silences my
                        own reflections were not wholly happy. If Miss Pat and Rosalind had not
                        followed me to the canoe-maker's I might have spared Helen; but
                        looking back, I would not change it now if I could. Helen had returned to
                        St. Agatha's with her aunt, who would have  it so; and we had parted at the school door, Miss Pat and
                        Helen, Gillespie and I, with restraint heavy upon us all. Miss Pat had, it
                        seemed, summoned her lawyer from New York several days before, to discuss
                        the final settlement of her father's estate; and he was expected
                        the next morning. I had asked them all to Glenarm for breakfast; and Arthur
                        Holbrook and Rosalind, and Henry, who had broken down at the end, had agreed
                        to come.
                    As we talked on, Gillespie and I, there under the stars, he disclosed, all
                        unconsciously, new and surprising traits, and I felt my heart warming to
                        him.
                    "He's a good deal of a man, that Arthur Holbrook,"
                        he remarked after a long pause. "He's beyond me. The man
                        who runs the enemy's lines to bring relief to the garrison, or the
                        leader of a forlorn hope, is tame after this. I suppose the world would call
                        him a fool."
                    "Undoubtedly," I answered. "But he didn't
                        do it for the world; he did it for himself. We can't applaud a
                        thing like that in the usual phrases."
                    "No," Gillespie added; "only get down on our knees
                        and bow our heads in the dust before it."
                    He rose and paced the long terrace. In his boat-shoes and white flannels he
                        glided noiselessly back and forth,  like a
                        ghost in the star dusk. He paused at the western balustrade and looked off
                        at St. Agatha's. Then he passed me and paused again, gazing
                        lakeward through the wood, as though turning from Helen to Rosalind; and I
                        knew that it was with her, far over the water, in the little cottage at Red
                        Gate, that his thoughts lingered. But when he came and stood beside me and
                        rested his hand on my shoulder I knew that he wished to speak of Helen and I
                        took his hand, and spoke to him to make it easier.
                    "Well, old man!"
                    "I was thinking of Helen," he said.
                    "So was I, Buttons."
                    "They are different, the two. They are very different."
                    "They are as like as God ever made two people; and yet they are
                        different."
                    "I think you understand Helen. I never did," he declared
                        mournfully.
                    "You don't have to," I replied; and laughed, and
                        rose and stood beside him. "And now there's something I
                        want to speak to you about to-night. Helen borrowed some money of you a
                        little while ago to meet one of her father's demands. I expect a
                        draft for that money by the morning mail, and I want you to accept it with
                             my thanks, and hers. And the incident
                        shall pass as though it had never been."
                    About one o'clock the wind freshened and the trees flung out their
                        arms like runners rushing before it; and from the west marched a storm with
                        banners of lightning. It was a splendid spectacle, and we went indoors only
                        when the rain began to wash across the terrace. We still watched it from our
                        windows after we went up-stairs, the lightning now blazing out blindingly,
                        like sheets of flame from a furnace door, and again cracking about the house
                        like a fiery whip.
                    "We ought to have brought Henry here to-night," remarked
                        Gillespie. "He's alone over there on the island with that
                        dago and they're very likely celebrating by getting
                        drunk."
                    "The lightning's getting on your nerves; go to
                        bed," I called back.
                    The storm left peace behind and I was abroad early, eager to have the first
                        shock of the morning's meetings over. Gillespie greeted me cheerily
                        and I told him to follow when he was ready. I went out and paced the walk
                        between the house and St. Agatha's, and as I peered through the
                        iron gate I saw Miss Pat come out of the house and turn into the garden. I
                        came upon her walking  slowly with her hands
                        clasped behind her. She spoke first, as though to avoid any expression of
                        sympathy, putting out her hand.
                    Filmy lace at the wrists gave to her hands a quaint touch akin to that
                        imparted by the cap on her white head. I was struck afresh by the background
                        that seemed always to be sketched in for her, and just now, beyond the
                        bright garden, it was a candle-lighted garret, with trunks of old letters
                        tied in dim ribbons, and lavender scented chests of Valenciennes and silks
                        in forgotten patterns.
                    "I am well, quite well, Larry!"
                    "I am glad! I wished to be sure!"
                    "Do not trouble about me. I am glad of everything that has
                        happenedglad and relieved. And I am grateful to you."
                    "I have served you ill enough. I stumbled in the dark much of the
                        time. I wanted to spare you, Miss Pat."
                    "I know that; and you tried to save Helen. She was blind and
                        misguided. She had believed in her father and the last blow crushed her.
                        Everything looks dark to her. She refuses to come over this morning; she
                        thinks she can not face her uncle, her cousin or you again."
                    "But she must come," I said. "It will be easier
                        today  than at any later time.
                        There's Gillespie, calling me now. He's going across the
                        lake to meet Arthur and Rosalind. I shall take the launch over to the island
                        to bring Henry. We should all be back at Glenarm in an hour. Please tell
                        Helen that we must have her, that no one should stay away."
                    Miss Pat looked at me oddly, and her fingers touched a stalk of hollyhock
                        beside her as her eyes rested on mine.
                    "Larry," she said, "do not be sorry for Helen if
                        pity is all you have for her."
                    I laughed and seized her hands.
                    "Miss Pat, I could not feel pity for any one so skilled with the
                        sword as she! It would be gratuitous! She put up a splendid fight, and
                        it's to her credit that she stood by her father and resented my
                        interference, as she had every right to. She was not really against you,
                        Miss Pat; it merely happened that you were in the way when she struck at me
                        with the foil, don't you see?"
                    "Not just that way, Larry,"and she continued to gaze at me
                        with a sweet distress in her eyes; then, "Rosalind is very
                        different," she added.
                    "I have observed it! The ways in which they are utterly unlike are
                        remarkable; but I mustn't keep Gillespie  waiting. Good-by for a little while!" And some
                        foreboding told me that sorrow had not yet done with her.
                    Gillespie shouted impatiently as I ran toward him at the boat-house.
                    "It's the Stiletto," he called,
                        pointing to where the sloop lay, midway of the lake.
                        "She's in a bad way."
                    "The storm blew her out," I suggested, but the sight of the
                        boat, listing badly as though water-logged, struck me ominously.
                    "We'd better pick her up," he said; and he was
                        already dropping one of the canoes into the water. We paddled swiftly toward
                        the sloop. The lake was still fretful from the storm's lashing, but
                        the sky was without fleck or flaw. The earliest of the little steamers was
                        crossing from the village, her whistle echoing and reechoing round the
                        lake.
                    "The sloop's about done for," said Gillespie over
                        his shoulder; and we drove our blades deeper. The Stiletto
                        was floating stern-on and rolling loggily, but retaining still, I thought,
                        something of the sinister air that she had worn on her strange business
                        through those summer days.
                    "She went to bed all right; see, her sails are furled  snug and everything's in shape. The
                        storm drove her over here," said Gillespie.
                        "She's struck something, or somebody's smashed
                        her."
                    It seemed impossible that the storm unassisted had blown her from Battle
                        Orchard across Lake Annandale; but we were now close upon her and seeking
                        for means of getting aboard.
                    "She's a bit sloppy," observed Gillespie as we
                        swung round and caught hold. The water gurgled drunkenly in the cuddy, and a
                        broken lantern rattled on the deck. I held fast as he climbed over, sending
                        me off a little as he jumped aboard, and I was working back again with the
                        paddle when he cried out in alarm.
                    As I came alongside he came back to help me, and when he bent over to catch
                        the painter, I saw that his face was white.
                    "We might have known it," he said. "It's
                        the last and worst that could happen."
                    Face down across the cuddy lay the body of Henry Holbrook. His water-soaked
                        clothing was torn as though in a fierce struggle. A knife thrust in the side
                        told the story; he had crawled to the cuddy roof to get away from the water
                        and had died there.
                    "It was the Italian," said Gillespie. "They must
                        have  had a row last night after we left them,
                        and it came to this. He chopped a hole in the Stiletto and
                        set her adrift to sink."
                    I looked about for the steamer, which was backing away from the pier at Port
                        Annandale, and signaled her with my handkerchief. And when I faced Gillespie
                        again he pointed silently toward the lower lake, where a canoe rode the
                        bright water.
                    Rosalind and her father were on their way from Red Gate to Glenarm. Two
                        blades flashed in the sun as the canoe came toward us. Gillespie's
                        lips quivered and he tried to speak as he pointed to them; and then we both
                        turned silently toward St. Agatha's, where the chapel tower rose
                        above the green wood.
                    "Stay and do what is to be done," I said. "I will
                        find Helen and tell her."
                    THE END
                    
                
            
        
    
