
     ----CITATION---- 
        Phillips, David Graham, 1867-1911. The Deluge: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2408
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
                
                    "DO YOU WANT ME TO DESPISE YOU?" Page 381
                    
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    THE DELUGE
                
                
                    By
                    
                    DAVID GRAHAM PHILLIPS
                    
                    Author of
                     The Cost, The Plum Tree, The Social Secretary, etc.
                WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY GEORGE GIBBS
                
                    INDIANAPOLIS
                    THE BOBBS-MERRILL COMPANY PUBLISHERS
                
            
            
            
                Copyright 1905 The Bobbs-Merrill Company
                October
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    I MR. BLACKLOCK
                        1
                        
                    
                    II IN THOSE DAYS
                            AROSE KINGS
                        4
                        
                    
                    III CAME A WOMAN
                        16
                        
                    
                    IV A CANDIDATE FOR "RESPECTABILITY"
                            31
                        
                    
                    V DANGER SIGNALS
                        42
                        
                    
                    VI OF "GENTLEMEN" 55
                        
                    
                    VII BLACKLOCK GOES INTO TRAINING
                        62
                        
                    
                    VIII ON THE TRAIL OF LANGDON
                        76
                        
                    
                    IX LANGDON AT HOME
                        88
                        
                    
                    X TWO "PILLARS OF SOCIETY" 101
                        
                    
                    XI WHEN A MAN IS
                            NOT A MAN
                        113
                        
                    
                    XII ANITA
                        127
                        
                    
                    XIII "UNTIL TO-MORROW" 141
                        
                    
                    XIV FRESH AIR IN A GREENHOUSE
                        153
                        
                    
                    XV SOME STRANGE LAPSES
                            OF A LOVER
                        163
                        
                    
                    XVI TRAPPED AND TRIMMED
                        180
                        
                    
                    XVII A GENTEEL "HOLD-UP" 193
                        
                    
                    XVIII ANITA BEGINS TO BE HERSELF
                        207
                        
                    
                    XIX A WINDFALL FROM "GENTLEMAN JOE" 231
                        
                    
                    
                    XX A BREATHING SPELL
                        242
                        
                    
                    XXI MOST UNLADYLIKE
                        247
                        
                    
                    XXII MOST UNGENTLEMANLY
                        261
                        
                    
                    XXIII "SHE HAS CHOSEN" 291
                        
                    
                    XXIV BLACKLOCK ATTENDS FAMILY PRAYERS
                        307
                        
                    
                    XXV "MY WIFE MUST" 322
                        
                    
                    XXVI THE WEAK STRAND
                        330
                        
                    
                    XXVII A CONSPIRACY AGAINST ANITA
                        347
                        
                    
                    XXVIII BLACKLOCK SEES A LIGHT
                        359
                        
                    
                    XXIX A HOUSEWARMING
                        371
                        
                    
                    XXX BLACKLOCK OPENS FIRE
                        382
                        
                    
                    XXXI ANITA'S SECRET
                        395
                        
                    
                    XXXII LANGDON COMES TO THE SURFACE
                        409
                        
                    
                    XXXIII MRS. LANGDON MAKES A CALL
                        425
                        
                    
                    XXXIV "MY RIGHT EYE OFFENDS ME" 436
                        
                    
                    XXXV "WILD WEEK" 449
                        
                    
                    XXXVI "BLACK MATT'S" TRIUMPH
                        461
                        
                    
                
            
            
            
                ILLUSTRATIONS
                
                    "Do you want me to despise you?" (See page 380) 
                            Frontispiece
                            
                        
                    
                    She looked as straight at me as I at her 20
                        
                    
                    "I'll have my priceto the last cent" 122
                        
                    
                    She presently entered from the hall 154
                        
                    
                    I gently urged her forward 259
                        
                    
                    How that horrible fear changed my whole way of looking at her, at him, at
                        everything! 384
                        
                    
                
            
            
            
            
                THE DELUGE
                
            
            
        
        
            
            
                THE DELUGE
                
                    I
                    MR. BLACKLOCK
                    When Napoleon was about to crown himselfso I have somewhere readthey
                        submitted to him the royal genealogy they had faked up for him. He crumpled
                        the parchment and flung it in the face of the chief herald, or whoever it
                        was. "My line," said he, "dates from Montenotte." And so I say, my line
                        dates from the campaign that completed and established my famefrom "Wild
                        Week."
                    I shall not pause to recite the details of the obscurity from which I
                        emerged. It would be an interesting, a romantic story; but it is a familiar
                        story, also, in this land which Lincoln so finely and so fully described
                        when he said: "The republic is opportunity."
                    One fact only: I did not take the name Blacklock.
                    
                    
                    I was born Blacklock, and christened Matthew; and my hair's being very black
                        and growing so that a lock of it often falls down the middle of my forehead
                        is a coincidence. The malicious and insinuating story that I used to go
                        under another name arose, no doubt, from my having been a bootblack in my
                        early days, and having let my customers shorten my name into Matt Black.
                        But, as soon as I graduated from manual labor, I resumed my rightful name
                        and have borne itI think I may say without vanityin honor to honor.
                    Some one has written: "It was a great day for fools when modesty was made a
                        virtue." I heartily subscribe to that. Life means action; action means
                        self-assertion; self-assertion rouses all the small, colorless people to the
                        only sort of action of which they are capableto sneering at the doer as
                        egotistical, vain, conceited, bumptious and the like. So be it! I have an
                        individuality, aggressive, restless and, like all such individualities,
                        necessarily in the lime-light; I have from the beginning lost no opportunity
                        to impress that individuality upon my time. Let those who have nothing to
                        advertise, and those less courageous and less successful than I at  advertisement, jeer and spit. I ignore them. I
                        make no apologies for egotism. I think, when my readers have finished, they
                        will demand none. They will see that I had work to do, and that I did it in
                        the only way an intelligent man ever tries to do his workhis own way, the
                        way natural to him!
                    Wild Week! Its cyclones, rising fury on fury to that historic climax of
                        chaos, sing their mad song in my ears again as I write. But I shall by no
                        means confine my narrative to business and finance. Take a cross-section of
                        life anywhere, and you have a tangled interweaving of the action and
                        reaction of men upon men, of women upon women, of men and women upon one
                        another. And this shall be a cross-section out of the very heart of our life
                        to-day, with its big and bold energies and passionsthe swiftest and
                        intensest life ever lived by the human race.
                    To begin:
                
                
                
                    II
                    IN THOSE DAYS AROSE KINGS
                    Imagine yourself back two years and a half before Wild Week, back at the time
                        when the kings of finance had just completed their apparently final conquest
                        of the industries of the country, when they were seating themselves upon
                        thrones encircled by vast armies of capital and brains, when all the
                        governments of the nationnational, state and citywere prostrate under their
                        iron heels.
                    You may remember that I was a not inconspicuous figure then. Of all their
                        financial agents, I was the best-known, the most trusted by them, the most
                        believed in by the people. I had a magnificent suite of offices in the
                        building that dominates Wall and Broad Streets. Boston claimed me also, and
                        Chicago; and in Philadelphia, New Orleans, St. Louis, San Francisco, in the
                        towns and rural districts tributary to the cities, thousands spoke of
                        Blacklock as their  trusted adviser in matters
                        of finance. My enemiesand I had them, numerous and venomous enough to prove
                        me a man worth whilemy enemies spoke of me as the "biggest bucket-shop
                        gambler in the world."
                    Gambler I waslike all the other manipulators of the markets. But
                        "bucket-shop" I never kept. As the kings of finance were the representatives
                        of the great merchants, manufacturers and investors, so was I the
                        representative of the masses, of those who wished their small savings
                        properly invested. The power of the big fellows was founded upon wealth and
                        the brains wealth buys or bullies or seduces into its service; my power was
                        founded upon the hearts and homes of the people, upon faith in my frank
                        honesty.
                    How had I built up my power? By recognizing the possibilities of publicity,
                        the chance which the broadcast sowing of newspapers and magazines put within
                        the reach of the individual man to impress himself upon the whole country,
                        upon the whole civilized world. The kings of finance relied upon the
                        assiduity and dexterity of sundry paid agents, operating through the
                        stealthy, clumsy, old-fashioned channels for the  exercise of power. I relied only upon myself; I had to trust to no
                        fallible, perhaps traitorous, understrappers; through the megaphone of the
                        press I spoke directly to the people.
                    My enemies charge that I always have been unscrupulous and dishonest. So?
                        Then how have I lived and thrived all these years in the glare and blare of
                        publicity?
                    It is true, I have used the "methods of the charlatan" in bringing myself
                        into wide public notice. The just way to put it would be that I have used
                        for honest purposes the methods of publicity that charlatans have shrewdly
                        appropriated, because by those means the public can be most widely and most
                        quickly reached. Does good become evil because hypocrites use it as a cloak?
                        It is also true that I have been "undignified." Let the stupid cover their
                        stupidity with "dignity." Let the swindler hide his schemings under
                        "dignity." I am a man of the people, not afraid to be seen as the human
                        being that I am. I laugh when I feel like it. I have no sense of jar when
                        people call me "Matt." I have a good time, and I shall stay young as long as
                        I stay alive. Wealth hasn't made me a solemn ass, fenced in and
                        unapproachable.  The custom of receiving
                        obedience and flattery and admiration has not made me a turkey-cock. Life is
                        a joke; and when the joke's on me, I laugh as heartily as when it's on the
                        other fellow.
                    It is half-past three o'clock on a May afternoon; a dismal, dreary rain is
                        being whirled through the streets by as nasty a wind as ever blew out of the
                        east. You are in the private office of that "king of kings," Henry J.
                        Roebuck, philanthropist, eminent churchman, leading citizen andin businessas
                        corrupt a creature as ever used the domino of respectability. That office is
                        on the twelfth floor of the Power Trust Buildingand the Power Trust is
                        Roebuck, and Roebuck is the Power Trust. He is seated at his desk and,
                        thinking I do not see him, is looking at me with an expression of benevolent
                        and melancholy pitythe look with which he always regarded any one whom the
                        Roebuck God Almighty had commanded Roebuck to destroy. He and his God were
                        in constant communication; his God never did anything except for his
                        benefit, he never did anything except on the direct counsel or command of
                        his God. Just now his God is commanding him to destroy me, his confidential
                        agent  in shaping many a vast industrial
                        enterprise and in inducing the public to buy by the million its bonds and
                        stocks.
                    I invited the angry frown of the Roebuck God by saying: "And I bought in the
                        Manasquale mines on my own account."
                    "On your own account!" said Roebuck. Then he hastily effaced his involuntary
                        air of the engineer startled by sight of an unexpected red light.
                    "Yes," replied I, as calm as if I were not realizing the tremendous
                        significance of what I had announced. "I look to you to let me participate
                        on equal terms."
                    That is, I had decided that the time had come for me to take my place among
                        the kings of finance. I had decided to promote myself from agent to
                        principal, from prime minister to kingI must, myself, promote myself, for in
                        this world all promotion that is solid comes from within. And in furtherance
                        of my object I had bought this group of mines, control of which was vital to
                        the Roebuck-Langdon-Melville combine for a monopoly of the coal of the
                        country.
                    "Did not Mr. Langdon commission you to buy them for him and his friends?"
                        inquired  Roebuck, in that slow, placid tone
                        which yet, for the attentive ear, had a note in it like the scream of a
                        jaguar that comes home and finds its cub gone.
                    "But I couldn't get them for him," I explained. "The owners wouldn't sell
                        until I engaged that the National Coal and Railway Company was not to have
                        them."
                    "Oh, I see," said Roebuck, sinking back relieved. "We must get Browne to draw
                        up some sort of perpetual, irrevocable power of attorney to us for you to
                        sign."
                    "But I won't sign it," said I.
                    Roebuck took up a sheet of paper and began to fold it upon itself with great
                        care to get the edges straight. He had grasped my meaning; he was
                        deliberating.
                    "For four years now," I went on, "you people have been promising to take me
                        in as a principal in some one of your dealsto give me recognition by making
                        me president, or chairman of an executive or finance committee. I am an
                        impatient man, Mr. Roebuck. Life is short, and I have much to do. So I have
                        bought the Manasquale minesand I shall hold them."
                    Roebuck continued to fold the paper upon itself 
                        until he had reduced it to a short, thick strip. This he slowly twisted
                        between his cruel fingers until it was in two pieces. He dropped them, one
                        at a time, into the waste-basket, then smiled benevolently at me. "You are
                        right," he said. "You shall have what you want. You have seemed such a mere
                        boy to me that, in spite of your giving again and again proof of what you
                        are, I have been putting you off. Then, too" He halted, and his look was
                        that of one surveying delicate ground.
                    "The bucket-shop?" suggested I.
                    "Exactly," said he gratefully. "Your brokerage business has been invaluable
                        to us. Butwell, I needn't tell you how peoplethe men of standinglook on that
                        sort of thing."
                    "I never have paid any attention to pompous pretenses," said I, "and I never
                        shall. My brokerage business must go on, and my daily letters to investors.
                        By advertising I rose; by advertising I am a power that even you recognize;
                        by advertising alone can I keep that power."
                    "You forget that in the new circumstances, you won't need that sort of power.
                        Adapt yourself to your new surroundings. Overalls for the trench; a business
                        suit for the office."
                    
                    "I shall keep to my overalls for the present," said I. "They're more
                        comfortable, and"here I smiled significantly at him"if I shed them, I might
                        have to go naked. The first principle of business is never to give up what
                        you have until your grip is tight on something better."
                    "No doubt you're right," agreed the white-haired old scoundrel, giving no
                        sign that I had fathomed his motive for trying to "hint" me out of my
                        stronghold. "I will talk the matter over with Langdon and Melville. Rest
                        assured, my boy, that you will be satisfied." He got up, put his arm
                        affectionately round my shoulders. "We all like you. I have a feeling toward
                        you as if you were my own son. I am getting old, and I like to see young men
                        about me, growing up to assume the responsibilities of the Lord's work
                        whenever He shall call me to my reward."
                    It will seem incredible that a man of my shrewdness and experience could be
                        taken in by such slimy stuff as thatI who knew Roebuck as only a few
                        insiders knew him, I who had seen him at work, as devoid of heart as an
                        empty spider in an empty web. Yet I was taken in to  the extent that I thought he really purposed to recognize my
                        services, to yield to the only persuasion that could affect himforce. I
                        fancied he was actually about to put me where I could be of the highest
                        usefulness to him and his associates, as well as to myself. As if an old man
                        ever yielded power or permitted another to gain power, even though it were
                        to his own great advantage. The avarice of age is not open to reason.
                    It was with tears in my eyes that I shook hands with him, thanking him
                        emotionally. It was with a high chin and a proud heart that I went back to
                        my offices. There wasn't a doubt in my mind that I was about to get my
                        deserts, was about to enter the charmed circle of "high finance."
                    That small and exclusive circle, into which I was seeing myself admitted
                        without the usual arduous and unequal battle, was what may be called the
                        industrial ringa loose, yet tight, combine of about a dozen men who
                        controlled in one way or another practically all the industries of the
                        country. They had no formal agreements; they held no official meetings. They
                        did not look upon themselves as an association.  They often quarreled among themselves, waged bitter wars upon each other
                        over divisions of power or plunder. But, in the broad sense, in the true
                        sense, they were an associationa band united by a common interest, to
                        control finance, commerce and therefore politics; a band united by a common
                        purpose, to keep that control in as few hands as possible. Whenever there
                        was sign of peril from without they flung away differences, pooled
                        resources, marched in full force to put down the insurrection. For they
                        looked on any attempt to interfere with them as a mutiny, as an outbreak of
                        anarchy. This band persisted, but membership in it changed, changed rapidly.
                        Now, one would be beaten to death and despoiled by a clique of fellows;
                        again, weak or rash ones would be cut off in strenuous battle. Often, most
                        often, some too-powerful or too-arrogant member would be secretly and
                        stealthily assassinated by a jealous associate or by a committee of internal
                        safety. Of course, I do not mean literally assassinated, but assassinated,
                        cut off, destroyed, in the sense that a man whose whole life is wealth and
                        power is dead when wealth and power are taken from him.
                    Actual assassination, the crime of murder  these
                        "gentlemen" rarely did anything which their lawyers did not advise them was
                        legal or could be made legal by bribery of one kind or another. Rarely, I
                        saynot never. You will see presently why I make that qualification.
                    I had my heart set upon membership in this bandand, as I confess now with
                        shame, my prejudices of self-interest had blinded me into regarding it and
                        its members as great and useful and honorable "captains of industry."
                        Honorable in the main; for, not even my prejudice could blind me to the
                        almost hair-raising atrocity of some of their doings. Still, morality is
                        largely a question of environment. I had been bred in that environment. Even
                        the atrocities I excused on the ground that he who goes forth to war must be
                        prepared to do and to tolerate many acts the church would have to strain a
                        point to bless. What was Columbus but a marauder, a bucaneer? Was not Drake,
                        in law and in fact, a pirate; Washington a traitor to his soldier's oath of
                        allegiance to King George? I had much to learn, and to unlearn. I was to
                        find out that whenever a Roebuck puts his arm round you, it is invariably to
                        get within your guard and nearer  your fifth
                        rib. I was to trace the ugliest deformities of that conscience of his,
                        hidden away down inside him like a dwarfed, starved prisoner in an
                        underground dungeon. I was to be astounded by revelations of Langdon, who
                        was not a believer, like Roebuck, and so was not under the restraint of the
                        feeling that he must keep some sort of conscience ledgers against the
                        inspection of the angelic auditing committee in the day of wrath.
                    Much to learnand to unlearn. It makes me laugh as I recall how, on that May
                        day, I looked into the first mirror I was alone with, smiled delighted as an
                        idiot with myself and said: "Matt, you are of the kings now. Your crown
                        suits you and, as you've earned it, you know how to keep it. Now for some
                        fun with your subjects and your fellow sovereigns."
                    A little premature, that preening!
                
                
                
                    III
                    CAME A WOMAN
                    In my suite in the Textile Building, just off the big main room with its
                        blackboards and tickers, I had a small office in which I spent a good deal
                        of time during Stock Exchange hours. It was there that Sam Ellersly found me
                        the next day but one after my talk with Roebuck.
                    "I want you to sell that Steel Common, Matt," said he.
                    "It'll go several points higher," said I. "Better let me hold it and use my
                        judgment on selling."
                    "I need moneyright away," was his answer.
                    "That's all right," said I. "Let me give you an order for what you need."
                    "Thank you, thank you," said he, so promptly that I knew I had done what he
                        had been hoping for, probably counting on.
                    I give this incident to show what our relations 
                        were. He was a young fellow of good family, to whom I had taken a liking. He
                        was a lazy dog, and as out of place in business as a cat in a choir. I had
                        been keeping him going for four years at that time, by giving him tips on
                        stocks and protecting him against loss. This purely out of good nature and
                        liking; for I hadn't the remotest idea he could ever be of use to me beyond
                        helping to liven things up at a dinner or late supper, or down in the
                        country, or on the yacht. In fact, his principal use to me was that he knew
                        how to "beat the box" well enough to shake fairly good music out of itand I
                        am so fond of music that I can fill in with my imagination when the
                        performer isn't too bad.
                    They have charged that I deliberately ruined him. Ruined! The first time I
                        gave him a tipand that was the second or third time I ever saw himhe burst
                        into tears and said: "You've saved my life, Blacklock. I'll never tell you
                        how much this windfall means to me now." Nor did I with deep and dark design
                        keep him along on the ragged edge. He kept himself there. How could I build
                        up such a man with his hundred ways of wasting money, including throwing  it away on his own opinions of stocksfor he
                        would gamble on his own account in the bucket-shops, though I had shown him
                        that the Wall Street game is played always with marked cards, and that the
                        only hope of winning is to get the confidence of the card-markers, unless
                        you are big enough to become a card-marker yourself.
                    As soon as he got the money from my teller that day, he was rushing away. I
                        followed him to the doorthat part of my suite opened out on the sidewalk,
                        for the convenience of my crowds of customers. "I'm just going to lunch,"
                        said I. "Come with me."
                    He looked uneasily toward a smart little one-horse brougham at the curb.
                        "Sorrybut I can't," said he. "I've my sister with me. She brought me down in
                        her trap."
                    "That's all right," said I; "bring her along. We'll go to the Savarin." And I
                        locked his arm in mine and started toward the brougham.
                    He was turning all kinds of colors, and was acting in a way that puzzled
                        methen. Despite all my years in New York I was ignorant of the elaborate
                        social distinctions that had grown up in its Fifth Avenue quarter. I knew,
                        of course,  that there was a fashionable
                        society and that some of the most conspicuous of those in it seemed unable
                        to get used to the idea of being rich and were in a state of great agitation
                        over their own importance. Important they might be, but not to me. I knew
                        nothing of their careful gradations of snobbismthe people to know socially,
                        the people to know in a business way, the people to know in ways religious
                        and philanthropic, the people to know for the fun to be got out of them, the
                        people to pride oneself on not knowing at all; the nervousness, the hysteria
                        about preserving these disgusting gradations. All this, I say, was an
                        undreamed-of mystery to me who gave and took liking in the sensible,
                        self-respecting American fashion. So I didn't understand why Sam, as I
                        almost dragged him along, was stammering: "Thank youbutIshethe fact is, we
                        really must get up-town."
                    By this time I was where I could look into the brougham. A glanceI can see
                        much at a glance, as can any man who spends every day of every year in an
                        all-day fight for his purse and his life, with the blows coming from all
                        sides. I can see much at a glance; I often have seen much; I never saw more
                        than just then. Instantly,  I made up my mind
                        that the Ellerslys would lunch with me. "You've got to eat somewhere," said
                        I, in a tone that put an end to his attempts to manufacture excuses. "I ll
                        be delighted to have you. Don't make up any more yarns."
                    He slowly opened the door. "Anita," said he, "Mr. Blacklock. He's invited us
                        to lunch."
                    I lifted my hat, and bowed. I kept my eyes straight upon hers. And it gave me
                        more pleasure to look into them than I had ever before got out of looking
                        into anybody's. I am passionately fond of flowers, and of children; and her
                        face reminded me of both. Or, rather, it seemed to me that what I had seen,
                        with delight and longing, incomplete in their freshness and beauty and
                        charm, was now before me in the fullness. I felt like saying to her, "I have
                        heard of you often. The children and the flowers have told me you were
                        coming." Perhaps my eyes did say it. At any rate, she looked as straight at
                        me as I at her, and I noticed that she paled a little and shrankyet
                        continued to look, as if I were compelling her. But her voice, beautifully
                        clear, and lingering in the ears like the resonance of the violin after the
                        bow has swept its strings and 
                        
                            SHE LOOKED AS STRAIGHT AT ME AS I AT HER Page 20
                            
                        
                        
                         lifted, was perfectly self-possessed, as she
                        said to her brother: "That will be delightfulif you think we have time."
                    I saw that she, uncertain whether he wished to accept, was giving him a
                        chance to take either course. "He has timenothing but time," said I. "His
                        engagements are always with people who want to get something out of him. And
                        they can wait." I pretended to think he was expecting me to enter the trap;
                        I got in, seated myself beside her, said to Sam: "I've saved the little seat
                        for you. Tell your man to take us to the Equitable BuildingNassau Street
                        entrance."
                    I talked a good deal during the first half of the nearly two hours we were
                        togetherpartly because both Sam and his sister seemed under some sort of
                        strain, chiefly because I was determined to make a good impression. I told
                        her about myself, my horses, my house in the country, my yacht. I tried to
                        show her I wasn't an ignoramus as to books and art, even if I hadn't been to
                        college. She listened, while Sam sat embarrassed. "You must bring your
                        sister down to visit me," I said finally. "I'll see that you both have the
                        time of your lives. Make up  a party of your
                        friends, Sam, and come downwhen shall we say? Next Sunday? You know you were
                        coming anyhow. I can change the rest of the party."
                    Sam grew as red as if he were going into apoplexy. I thought then he was
                        afraid I'd blurt out something about who were in the party I was proposing
                        to change. I was soon to know better.
                    "Thank you, Mr.Blacklock," said his sister. "But I have an engagement next
                        Sunday. I have a great many engagements just now. Without looking at my book
                        I couldn't say when I can go." This easily and naturally. In her set they
                        certainly do learn thoroughly that branch of tact which plain people call
                        lying.
                    Sam gave her a grateful look, which he thought I didn't see, and which I
                        didn't rightly interpretthen.
                    "We'll fix it up later, Blacklock," said he. "All right," said I. And from
                        that minute I was almost silent. It was something in her tone and manner
                        that silenced me. I suddenly realized that I wasn't making as good an
                        impression as I had been flattering myself.
                    When a man has money and is willing to spend 
                        it, he can readily fool himself into imagining he gets on grandly with
                        women. But I had better grounds than that for thinking myself not
                        unattractive to them, as a rule. Women had liked me when I had nothing;
                        women had liked me when they didn't know who I was. I felt that this woman
                        did not like me. And yet, by the way she looked at me in spite of her
                        efforts not to do so, I could tell that I had some sort of unusual interest
                        for her. Why didn't she like me? She made me feel the reason. I didn't
                        belong to her world. My ways and my looks offended her. She disliked me a
                        good deal; she feared me a little. She would have felt safer if she had been
                        gratifying her curiosity, gazing in at me through the bars of a cage.
                    Where I had been feeling and showing my usual assurance, I now became ill at
                        ease. I longed for them to be gone; at the same time I hated to let her
                        gofor, when and how would I see her again, would I get the chance to remove
                        her bad impression? It irritated me thus to be concerned about the sister of
                        a man into my liking for whom there was mixed much pity and some contempt.
                        But I am of the disposition that, whenever I see an obstacle of whatever  kind, I can not restrain myself from trying to
                        jump it. Here was an obstaclea dislike. To clear it was of the smallest
                        importance in the world, was a silly waste of time. Yet I felt I could not
                        maintain with myself my boast that there were no obstacles I couldn't get
                        over, if I turned aside from this.
                    Samnot without hesitation, as I recalled afterwardleft me with her, when I
                        sent him to bring her brougham up to the Broadway entrance. As she and I
                        were standing there alone, waiting in silence, I turned on her suddenly, and
                        blurted out, "You don't like me."
                    She reddened a little, smiled slightly. "What a quaint remark!" said she.
                    I looked straight at her. "But you shall."
                    Our eyes met. Her chin came out a little, her eyebrows lifted. Then, in scorn
                        of herself as well as of me, she locked herself in behind a frozen
                        haughtiness that ignored me. "Ah, here is the carriage," she said. I
                        followed her to the curb; she just touched my hand, just nodded her
                        fascinating little head.
                    "See you Saturday, old man," called her brother friendlily. My lowering face
                        had alarmed him.
                    
                    "That party is off," said I curtly. And I lifted my hat and strode away.
                    As I had formed the habit of dismissing the disagreeable, I soon put her out
                        of my mind. But she took with her my joy in the taste of things. I couldn't
                        get back my former keen satisfaction in all I had done and was doing. The
                        luxury, the tangible evidences of my achievement, no longer gave me
                        pleasure; they seemed to add to my irritation.
                    That's the way it is in life. We load ourselves down with toys like so many
                        greedy children; then we see another toy and drop everything to be free to
                        seize it; and if we can not, we're wretched.
                    I worked myself up, or rather, down, to such a mood that when my office boy
                        told me Mr. Langdon would like me to come to his office as soon as it was
                        convenient, I snapped out: "The hell he does! Tell Mr. Langdon I'll be glad
                        to see him here whenever he calls." That was stupidity, a premature
                        assertion of my right to be treated as an equal. I had always gone to
                        Langdon, and to any other of the rulers of finance, whenever I had got a
                        summons. For, while I was rich and powerful, I held both wealth and  power, in a sense, on sufferance; I knew that,
                        so long as I had no absolute control of any great department of industry,
                        these rulers could destroy me should they decide that they needed my
                        holdings or were not satisfied with my use of my power. There were a good
                        many people who did not realize that property rights had ceased to exist,
                        that property had become a revocable grant from the "plutocrats." I was not
                        of those misguided ones who had failed to discover the new fact concealed in
                        the old form. So I used to go when I was summoned.
                    But not that day. However, no sooner was my boy gone than I repented the
                        imprudence. "But what of it?" said I to myself. "No matter how the thing
                        turns out, I shall be able to get some advantage." For it was part of my
                        philosophy that a proper boat with proper sails and a proper steersman can
                        gain in any wind. I was surprised when Langdon appeared in my office a few
                        minutes later.
                    He was a tallish, slim man, carefully dressed, with a bored, weary look and a
                        slow, bored way of talking. I had always said that if I had not been myself
                        I should have wished to be Langdon. Men liked and admired him; women loved
                             and ran after him. Yet he exerted not the
                        slightest effort to please any one; on the contrary, he made it distinct and
                        clear that he didn't care a rap what any one thought of him or, for that
                        matter, of anybody or anything. He knew how to get, without sweat or
                        snatching, all the good there was in whatever fate threw in his wayand he
                        was one of those men into whose way fate seems to strive to put everything
                        worth having. His business judgment was shrewd, but he cared nothing for the
                        big game he was playing except as a game. Like myself, he was simply a
                        sportsmanand, I think, that is why we liked each other. He could have
                        trusted almost any one that came into contact with him; but he trusted
                        nobody, and frankly warned every one not to trust hima safe frankness, for
                        his charm caused it to be forgotten or ignored. He would do anything to gain
                        an object, however trivial, which chanced to attract him; once it was his,
                        he would throw it aside as carelessly as an illfitting collar.
                    His expression, as he came into my office, was one of cynical amusement, as
                        if he were saying to himself: "Our friend Blacklock has caught the swollen
                        head at last." Not a suggestion of  ill humor,
                        of resentment at my impertinencefor, in the circumstances, I had been guilty
                        of an impertinence. Just languid, amused patience with the frailty of a
                        friend. "I see," said he, "that you have got Textile up to eighty-five."
                    He was the head of the Textile Trust which had been built by his
                        brother-in-law and had fallen to him in the confusion following his
                        brother-in-law's death. As he was just then needing some money for his share
                        in the National Coal undertaking, he had directed me to push Textile up
                        toward par and unload him of two or three hundred thousand shareshe, of
                        course, to repurchase the shares after he had taken profits and Textile had
                        dropped back to its normal fifty.
                    "I'll have it up to ninety-eight by the middle of next month," said I. "And
                        there I think we'd better stop."
                    "Stop at about ninety," said he. "That will give me all I find I'll need for
                        this Coal business. I don't want to be bothered with hunting up an
                        investment."
                    I shook my head. "I must put it up to within a point or two of par," I
                        declared. "In my public letter I've been saying it would go above
                        ninety-five, and I never deceive my public."
                    
                    He smiledmy notion of honesty always amused him. "As you please," he said
                        with a shrug. Then I saw a serious lookjust a fleeting flash of
                        warningbehind his smiling mask; and he added carelessly: "Be careful about
                        your own personal play. I doubt if Textile can be put any higher."
                    It must have been my mood that prevented those words from making the
                        impression on me they should have made. Instead of appreciating at once and
                        at its full value this characteristic and amazingly friendly signal of
                        caution, I showed how stupidly inattentive I was by saying: "Something
                        doing? Something new?"
                    But he had already gone further than his notion of friendship warranted. So
                        he replied: "Oh, no. Simply that everything's uncertain nowadays."
                    My mind had been all this time on those Manasquale mining properties. I now
                        said: "Has Roebuck told you that I had to buy those mines on my own
                        account?"
                    "Yes," he said. He hesitated, and again he gave me a look whose meaning came
                        to me only when it was too late. "I think, Blacklock, you'd better turn them
                        over to me."
                    
                    "I can't," I answered. "I gave my word."
                    "As you please," said he.
                    Apparently the matter didn't interest him. He began to talk of the
                        performances of my little two-year-old, Beachcomber; and after twenty
                        minutes or so, he drifted away. "I envy you your enthusiasm," he said,
                        pausing in my doorway. "Wherever I am, I wish I were somewhere else.
                        Whatever I'm doing, I wish I were doing something else. Where do you get all
                        this joy of the fight? What the devil are you fighting for?"
                    He didn't wait for a reply.
                    I thought over my situation steadily for several days. I went down to my
                        country place. I looked everywhere among all my belongings, searching,
                        searching, restless, impatient. At last I knew what ailed mewhat the lack
                        was that yawned so gloomily from everything I had once thought beautiful,
                        had once found sufficient. I was in the midst of the splendid, terraced
                        pansy beds my gardeners had just set out; I stopped short and slapped my
                        thigh. "A woman!" I exclaimed. "That's what I need. A womanthe right sort of
                        womana wife!"
                
                
                
                    IV
                    A CANDIDATE FOR "RESPECTABILITY"
                    To handle this new business properly I must put myself in position to look
                        the whole field over. I must get in line and in touch with "respectability."
                        When Sam Ellersly came in for his "rations," I said: "Sam, I want you to put
                        me up at the Travelers Club."
                    "The Travelers!" echoed he, with a blank look.
                    "The Travelers," said I. "It's about the best of the big clubs, isn't it? And
                        it has as members most of the men I do business with and most of those I
                        want to get into touch with."
                    He laughed. "It can't be done."
                    "Why not?" I asked.
                    "OhI don't know. You seethe fact iswell, they're a lot of old fogies up
                        there. You don't want to bother with that push, Matt. Take my advice. Do
                        business with them, but avoid them socially."
                    
                    "I want to go in there," I insisted. "I have my own reasons. You put me up."
                    "I tell you, it'd be no use," he replied, in a tone that implied he wished to
                        hear no more of the matter.
                    "You put me up," I repeated. "And if you do your best, I'll get in all right.
                        I've got lots of friends there. And you've got three relatives in the
                        committee on membership."
                    At this he gave me a queer, sharp glancea little fright in it.
                    I laughed. "You see, I've been looking into it, Sam. I never take a jump till
                        I've measured it."
                    "You'd better wait a few years, until"he began, then stopped and turned red.
                    "Until what?" said I. "I want you to speak frankly."
                    "Well, you've got a lot of enemiesa lot of fellows who've lost money in deals
                        you've engineered. And they'd say all sorts of things."
                    "I'll take care of that," said I, quite easy in mind. "Mowbray Langdon's
                        president, isn't he? Well, he's my closest friend." I spoke quite honestly.
                        It shows how simple-minded I was in certain ways that I had never once noted
                             the important circumstance that this
                        "closest friend" had never invited me to his house, or anywhere where I'd
                        meet his up-town associates at introducing distance.
                    Sam looked surprised. "Oh, in that case," he said, "I'll see what can be
                        done." But his tone was not quite cordial enough to satisfy me.
                    To stimulate him and to give him an earnest of what I intended to do for him,
                        when our little social deal had been put through, I showed him how he could
                        win ten thousand dollars in the next three days. "And you needn't bother
                        about putting up margins," said I, as I often had before. "I'll take care of
                        that."
                    He stammered a refusal and went out; but he came back within an hour, and, in
                        a strained sort of way, accepted my tip and my offer.
                    "That's sensible," said I. "When will you attend to the matter at the
                        Travelers? I want to be warned so I can pull my own set of wires in
                        concert."
                    "I'll let you know," he answered, hanging his head.
                    I didn't understand his queer actions then. Though I was an expert in
                        finance, I hadn't yet made a study of that other gamethe game of  "gentleman." And I didn't know how seriously
                        the frauds and fakirs who play it take it and themselves. I attributed his
                        confusion to a ridiculous mock modesty he had about accepting favors; it
                        struck me as being particularly silly on this occasion, because for once he
                        was to give as well as to take.
                    He didn't call for his profits, but wrote asking me to mail him the check for
                        them. I did so, putting in the envelop with it a little jog to his memory on
                        the club matter. I didn't see him again for nearly a month; and though I
                        searched and sent, I couldn't get his trail. On opening day at Morris Park,
                        I was going along the passage behind the boxes in the grand stand, on my way
                        to the paddock. I wanted to see my horse that was about to run for the
                        Salmagundi Sweepstakes, and to tell my jockey that I'd give him fifteen
                        thousand, instead of ten thousand, if he wonfor I had put quite a bunch
                        down. I was a figure at the tracks in those days. I went into racing on my
                        customary generous scale. I liked horses, just as I liked everything that
                        belonged out under the big sky; also I liked the advertising my string of
                        thoroughbreds gave me. I was rich enough to be beyond the stage at which a
                        man  excites suspicion by frequenting
                        race-tracks and gambling-houses; I was at the height where prodigalities
                        begin to be taken as evidences of abounding superfluity, not of a dangerous
                        profligacy. Jim Harkaway, who failed at playing the same game I played and
                        won, said to me with a sneer one day: "You certainly do know how to get a
                        dollar's worth of notoriety out of a dollar's worth of advertising."
                    "If I only knew that, Jim," said I, "I'd have been long ago where you're
                        bound for. The trick is to get it back ten for one. The more you advertise yourself, the more suspicious of you people become.
                        The more money I 'throw away' in advertising, the more convinced people are
                        that I can afford to do it."
                    But, as I was about to say, in one of the boxes I spied my shy friend, Sammy.
                        He was looking better than I had ever seen him. Less heavy-eyed, less pallid
                        and pasty, less like a man who had been shirking bed and keeping up on
                        cocktails and cold baths. He was at the rear of the box, talking with a lady
                        and a gentleman. As soon as I saw that lady, I knew what it was that had
                        been hiding at the bottom of my mind and rankling there.
                    
                    Luckily I was alone; ever since that lunch I had been cutting loose from the
                        old crowdfrom all its women, and from all its men except two or three real
                        friends who were good fellows straight through, in spite of their having
                        made the mistake of crossing the dead line between amateur "sport" and
                        professional. I leaned over and tapped Sammy on the shoulder.
                    He glanced round, and when he saw me, looked as if I were a policeman who had
                        caught him in the act.
                    "Howdy, Sam?" said I. "It's been so long since I've seen you that I couldn't
                        resist the temptation to interrupt. Hope your friends'll excuse me. Howdy
                        do, Miss Ellersly?" And I put out my hand.
                    She took it reluctantly. She was giving me a very unpleasant lookas if she
                        were seeing, not somebody, but some thing she didn't care
                        to see, or were seeing nothing at all. I liked that look; I liked the woman
                        who had it in her to give it. She made me feel that she was difficult and
                        therefore worth while, and that's what all we human beings are in business
                        forto make each other feel that we're worth while.
                    "Just a moment," said Sam, red as a cranberry 
                        and stuttering. And he made a motion to come out of the box and join me. At
                        the same time Miss Anita and the other fellow began to turn away.
                    But I was not the man to be cheated in that fashion. I wanted to see her, and I compelled her to see it and to feel it. "Don't
                        let me take you from your friends," said I to Sammy. "Perhaps they'd like to
                        come with you and me down to look at my horse. I can give you a good tiphe's
                        bound to win. I've had my boys out on the rails every morning at the trials
                        of all the other possibilities. None of 'em's in it with Mowghli."
                    "Mowghli!" said the young ladyshe had begun to turn toward me as soon as I
                        spoke the magic word, "tip." There may be men who can resist that word "tip"
                        at the race-track, but there never was a woman.
                    "My sister has to stay here," said Sammy hurriedly. "I'll go with you,
                        Blacklock."
                    All this time he was looking as if he were doing something he ought to be
                        ashamed of. I thought then he was ashamed because he, professing to be a
                        gentleman, had been neglecting his debt of honor. I now know he was ashamed
                             because he was responsible for his
                        sister's being contaminated by contact with such a man as I! I who hadn't a
                        dollar that wasn't honestly earned; I who had made a fortune by my own
                        efforts, and was spending my millions like a prince; I who had taste in art
                        and music and in architecture and furnishing and all the fine things of
                        life. Above all, I who had been his friend and benefactor. He knew I was more of a gentleman than he could ever hope to be, he
                        with no ability at anything but spending money; he a sponge and a cadger,
                        yes, and a welcherfor wasn't he doing his best to welch me? But just because
                        a lot of his friends, jealous of my success and angry that I refused to
                        truckle to them and be like them instead of like myself, sneered at mebehind
                        my backthis poor-spirited creature was daring to pretend to himself that I
                        wasn't fit for the society of his sister!
                    "Mowghli!" said Miss Ellersly. "What a quaint name!"
                    "My trainer gave it," said I. "I've got a second son of one of those
                        broken-down English noblemen at the head of my stables. He's trying to get
                        money enough together to be able to show up at Newport and take a shy at an
                        heiress."
                    
                    At this the fellow who was fourth in our party, and who had been giving me a
                        nasty, glassy stare, got as red as was Sammy. Then I noticed that he was an
                        Englishman, and I all but chuckled with delight. However, I said, "No
                        offense intended," and clapped him on the shoulder with a friendly smile.
                        "He's a good fellow, my man Monson, and knows a lot about horses."
                    Miss Ellersly bit her lip and colored, but I noticed also that her eyes were
                        dancing.
                    Sam introduced the Englishman to meLord Somebody-or-other, I forget what, as
                        I never saw him again. I turned like a bulldog from a toy terrier and was at
                        Miss Ellersly again. "Let me put a little something on Mowghli for you,"
                        said I. "You're bound to winand I'll see that you don't lose. I know how you
                        ladies hate to lose."
                    That was a bit stiff, as I know well enough now. Indeed, my instinct would
                        have told me better then, if I hadn't been so used to the sort of women that
                        jump at such an offer, and if I hadn't been casting about so desperately and
                        in such confusion for some way to please her. At any rate, I hardly deserved
                        her sudden frozen look. "I beg pardon," I stammered, and I think  my look at her must have been very humblefor
                        me.
                    The others in the box were staring round at us. "Come on," cried Sam,
                        dragging at my arm, "let's go."
                    "Won't you come?" I said to his sister. I shouldn't have been able to keep my
                        state of mind out of my voice, if I had tried. And I didn't try.
                    Trust the right sort of woman to see the right sort of thing in a man through
                        any and all kinds of barriers of caste and manners and breeding. Her voice
                        was much softer as she said: "I think I must stay here. Thank you, just the
                        same."
                    As soon as Sam and I were alone, I apologized. "I hope you'll tell your
                        sister I'm sorry for that break," said I.
                    "Oh, that's all right," he answered, easy again, now that we were away from
                        the others. "You meant welland motive's the thing."
                    "Motivehell!" cried I in my anger at myself. "Nobody but a man's God knows
                        his motives; he doesn't even know them himself. I judge others by what they
                        do, and I expect to be judged in the same way. I see I've got a lot to
                        learn." Then I suddenly remembered the Travelers  Club, and asked him what he'd done about it.
                    "II've beenthinking it over," said he. "Are you sure you
                        want to run the risk of an ugly cropper, Matt?"
                    I turned him round so that we were facing each other. "Do you want to do me
                        that favor, or don't you?" I demanded.
                    "I'll do whatever you say," he replied. "I'm thinking only of your
                        interests."
                    "Let me take care of them," said I. "You
                        put me up at that club to-morrow. I'll send you the name of a seconder not
                        later than noon."
                    "Up goes your name," he said. "But don't blame me for the consequences."
                    And my name went up, with Mowbray Langdon's brother, Tom, as seconder. Every
                        newspaper in town published the fact, most of them under big black
                        headlines. "The fun's about to begin," thought I, as I read. And I was
                        right, though I hadn't the remotest idea how big a ball I had opened.
                
                
                
                    V
                    DANGER SIGNALS
                    At that time I did not myself go over the bills before the legislatures of
                        those states in which I had interests. I trusted that work to my lawyersand,
                        like every man who ever absolutely trusted an important division of his
                        affairs to another, I was severely punished. One morning my eye happened to
                        light upon a minor paragraph in a newspapera list of the "small bills
                        yesterday approved by the governor." In the list was one "defining the power
                        of sundry commissions." Those words seemed to me somehow to spell "joker."
                        But why did I call up my lawyers to ask them about it? It's a mystery to me.
                        All I know is that, busy as I was, something inside me compelled me to drop
                        everything else and hunt that "joker" down.
                    I got Saxethen senior partner in Browne, Saxe and Einsteinon the 'phone, and
                        said: "Just see and tell me, will you, what is the 'bill  defining the power of sundry commissions'the
                        bill the governor signed yesterday?"
                    "Certainly, Mr. Blacklock," came the answer. My nerves are, and always have
                        been, on the watchout for the looks and the tones and the gestures that are
                        just a shade off the natural; and I feel that I do Saxe no injustice when I
                        say his tone was, not a shade, but a full color, off the natural. So I was
                        prepared for what he said when he returned to the telephone. "I'm sorry, Mr.
                        Blacklock, but we seem unable to lay our hands on that bill at this moment."
                    "Why not?" said I, in the tone that makes an employee jump as if a whip-lash
                        had cut him on the calves.
                    He had jumped all right, as his voice showed. "It's not in our file," said
                        he. "It's House Bill No. 427, and it's apparently not here."
                    "The hell you say!" I exclaimed. "Why?"
                    "I really can't explain," he pleaded, and the frightened whine confirmed my
                        suspicion.
                    "I guess not," said I, making the words significant and suggestive. "And
                        you're in my pay to look after such matters! But you'll have to explain, if
                        this turns out to be serious."
                    "Apparently our file of bills is complete except  that one," he went on. "I suppose it was lost in the mail, and I very
                        stupidly didn't notice the gap in the numbers."
                    "Stupid isn't the word I'd use," said I, with a laugh that wasn't of the kind
                        that cheers. And I rang off and asked for the state capitol on the "long
                        distance."
                    Before I got my connection Saxe, whose office was only two blocks away, came
                        flustering in. "The boy has been discharged, Mr. Blacklock," he began.
                    "What boy?" said I.
                    "The boy in charge of the bill filethe boy whose business it was to keep the
                        file complete."
                    "Send him to me, you damned scoundrel," said I. "I'll give him a job. What do
                        you take me for, anyway? And what kind of a cowardly hound are you to
                        disgrace an innocent boy as a cover for your own crooked work?"
                    "Really, Mr. Blacklock, this is most extraordinary," he expostulated.
                    "Extraordinary? I call it criminal," I retorted. "Listen to me. You look
                        after the legislation calendars for me, and for Langdon, and for Roebuck,
                        and for Melville, and for half a dozen others of the biggest financiers in
                        the country.  It's the most important work you
                        do for us. Yet you, as shrewd and careful a lawyer as there is at the bar,
                        want me to believe you trusted that work to a boy! If you did, you're a damn
                        fool. If you didn't, you're a damn scoundrel. There's no more doubt in my
                        mind than in yours which of those horns has you sticking on it."
                    "You are letting your quick temper get away with you, Mr. Blacklock," he
                        deprecated.
                    "Stop lying!" I shouted, "I knew you had been doing some skulduggery when I
                        first heard your voice on the telephone. And if I needed any proof, the meek
                        way you've taken my abuse would furnish it, and to spare."
                    Just then the telephone bell rang and I got the right department and asked
                        the clerk to read House Bill 427. It contained five short paragraphs. The
                        "joker" was in the third, which gave the State Canal Commission the right
                        "to institute condemnation proceedings, and to condemn, and to abolish, any
                        canal not exceeding thirty miles in length and not a part of the connected
                        canal system of the state."
                    When I hung up the receiver I was so absorbed that I had forgotten Saxe was
                        waiting. He made some slight sound. I wheeled on  him. I needed a vent. If he hadn't been there I should have smashed a
                        chair. But there was heand I kicked him out of my private office and would
                        have kicked him out through the anteroom into the outer hall, had he not
                        gathered himself together and run like a jack-rabbit.
                    Since that day I have done my own calendar watching.
                    By this incident I do not mean to suggest that there are not honorable men in
                        the legal profession. Most of them are men of the highest honor, as are most
                        business men, most persons of consequence in every department of life. But
                        you don't look for character in the proprietors, servants, customers and
                        hangers-on of dives. No more ought you to look for honor among any of the
                        people that have to do with the big gilded dive of the dollarocracy. They
                        are there to gamble, and to prostitute themselves. The fact that they look
                        like gentlemen and have the manners and the language of gentlemen ought to
                        deceive nobody but the callow chaps of the sort that believes the swell
                        gambler is "an honest fellow" and a "perfect gentleman otherwise," because
                        he wears a dress suit in the evening and  is a
                        judge of books and pictures. Lawyers are the doorkeepers and the messengers
                        of the big dive; and these lawyers, though they stand the highest and get
                        the biggest fees, are just what you would expect human beings to be who
                        expose themselves to such temptations, and yield whenever they get an
                        opportunity, as eager and as compliant as a cocotte.
                    
                    My lawyers had sold me out; I, fool that I was, had not guarded the only weak
                        plate in my armor against my companionsthe plate over my back, to shed
                        assassin thrusts. Roebuck and Langdon between them owned the governor; he
                        owned the Canal Commission; my canal, which gave me access to tide-water for
                        the product of my Manasquale mines, was as good as closed. I no longer had
                        the whip-hand in National Coal. The others could sell me out and take
                        two-thirds of my fortune, whenever they likedfor of what use were my mines
                        with no outlet now to any market, except the outlets the coal crowd owned?
                    As soon as I had thought the situation out in all its bearings, I realized
                        that there was no escape for me now, that whatever chance to escape I might
                        have had was closed by my uncovering to Saxe and kicking him. But I did not
                             regret; it was worth the money it would
                        cost me. Besides, I thought I saw how I could later on turn it to good
                        account. A sensible man never makes fatal errors. Whatever he does is at
                        least experience, and can also be used to advantage. If Napoleon hadn't been
                        half dead at Waterloo, I don't doubt he would have used its disaster as a
                        means to a greater victory.
                    Was I downcast by the discovery that those bandits had me apparently at their
                        mercy? Not a bit. Never in my life have I been downcast over money matters
                        more than a few minutes. Why should I be? Why should any man be who has made
                        himself all that he is? As long as his brain is sound, his capital is
                        unimpaired. When I walked into Mowbray Langdon's office, I was like a
                        thoroughbred exercising on a clear frosty morning; and my smile was as fresh
                        as the flower in my buttonhole. I thrust out my hand at him. "I congratulate
                        you," said I.
                    He took the proffered hand with a questioning look.
                    "On what?" said he. It is hard to tell from his face what is going on in his
                        head, but I think I guessed right when I decided that Saxe hadn't yet warned
                        him.
                    
                    "I have just found out from Saxe," I pursued, "about the Canal Bill."
                    "What Canal Bill?" he asked.
                    "That puzzled look was a mistake, Langdon," said I, laughing at him. "When
                        you don't know anything about a matter, you look merely blank. You overdid
                        it; you've given yourself away."
                    He shrugged his shoulders. "As you please," said he. As you please was his
                        favorite expression; a stereotyped irony, for in dealing with him, things
                        were never as you pleased, but always as he pleased.
                    "Next time you want to dig a mine under anybody," I went on, "don't hire
                        Saxe. Really I feel sorry for youto have such a clever scheme messed by such
                        an ass."
                    "If you don't mind, I'd like to know what you're talking about," said he,
                        with his patient, bored look.
                    "As you and Roebuck own the governor, I know your little law ends my little
                        canal."
                    "Still I don't know what you're talking about," drawled he. "You are always
                        suspecting everybody of double-dealing. I gather that this is another
                        instance of your infirmity. Really,  Blacklock,
                        the world isn't wholly made up of scoundrels."
                    "I know that," said I. "And I will even admit that its scoundrels are seldom
                        made up wholly of scoundrelism. Even Roebuck would rather do the decent
                        thing, if he can do it without endangering his personal interests. As for
                        youI regard you as one of the decentest men I ever knewoutside of business.
                        And even there, I believe you'd keep your word, as long as the other fellow
                        kept his."
                    "Thank you," said he, bowing ironically. "This flattery makes me suspect
                        you've come to get something."
                    "On the contrary," said I. "I want to give something. I want to give you my
                        coal mines."
                    "I thought you'd see that our offer was fair," said he. "And I'm glad you
                        have changed your mind about quarreling with your best friends. We can be
                        useful to you, you to us. A break would be silly."
                    "That's the way it looks to me," I assented. And I decided that my sharp talk
                        to Roebuck had set them to estimating my value to them.
                    "Sam Ellersly," Langdon presently remarked, "tells me he's campaigning hard
                        for you at the  Travelers. I hope you'll make
                        it. We're rather a slow crowd; a few men like you might stir things up."
                    I am always more than willing to give others credit for good sense and good
                        motives. It was not vanity, but this disposition to credit others with
                        sincerity and sense, that led me to believe him, both as to the Coal matter
                        and as to the Travelers Club. "Thanks, Langdon," I said; and that he might
                        look no further for my motive, I added: "I want to get into that club much
                        as the winner of a race wants the medal that belongs to him. I've built
                        myself up into a rich man, into one of the powers in finance, and I feel I'm
                        entitled to recognition."
                    "I don't quite follow you," he said. "I can't see that you'll be either
                        better or worse for getting into the Travelers."
                    "No more I shall," replied I. " No more is the winner of the race the better
                        or the worse for having the medal. But he wants it."
                    He had a queer expression. I suppose he regarded it as a joke, my attaching
                        apparently so much importance to a thing he cared nothing about. " You've
                        always had that sort of thing," said I, "and so you don't appreciate it.
                        You're  like a respectable woman. She can't
                        imagine what all the fuss over women keeping a good reputation is about.
                        Well, just let her lose it!"
                    " Perhaps," said he.
                    "And," I went on, " you can have the rule about the waiting list suspended,
                        and can move me up and get me in at once."
                    "We don't do things in quite such a hurry at the Travelers," said he,
                        laughing. " However, we'll try to comply with your commands."
                    His generous, cordial offer made me half ashamed of the plot I had underneath
                        my submission about the coal minesa plot to get into the coal combine in
                        order to gather the means to destroy it, and perhaps reconstruct it with
                        myself in control. I made up my mind that, if he continued to act squarely,
                        I would alter those plans.
                    "If you don't mind," Langdon was going on, "I'll make a suggestionmerely a
                        suggestion. It might not be a bad idea for you to arrange toto eliminate
                        some of thethe popular features from yourbrokerage business. There are
                        several influential members of the Travelers who have aa prejudice"
                    "I understand," I interposed, to spare him the 
                        necessity of saying things he thought I might regard as impertinent. "They
                        look on me as a keeper of a high-class bucket-shop."
                    "That's about the way they'd put it."
                    "But the things they object to are, unfortunately, my 'strong hold,"' I
                        explained. "You other big fellows gather in the big investors by simply
                        announcing your projects in a dignified way. I haven't got the ear of that
                        class of people. I have to send out my letters, have to advertise in all the
                        cities and towns, have to catch the little fellows. You can afford to send
                        out engraved invitations; I have to gather in my people with brass bands and
                        megaphones. Don't forget that my people count in the totals bigger than
                        yours. And what's my chief value to you? Why, when you want to unload, I
                        furnish the crowd to unload on, the crowd that gives you and your big
                        customers cash for your water and wind. I don't see my way to letting go of
                        what I've got until I get hold of what I'm reaching for." All this with not
                        a suspicion in my mind that he was at the same game that had caused Roebuck
                        to "hint" that same proposal. What a "con man" high finance got when Mowbray
                        Langdon became active down town!
                    
                    "That's true," he admitted, with a great air of frankness. "But the cry that
                        you're not a financier, but a bucket-shop man, might be fatal at the
                        Travelers. Of course, the sacrifice would be large for such a small object.
                        Still, you might have to make itif you really want to get in."
                    "I'll think it over," said I. He thought I meant that I'd think over dropping
                        my powerthought I was as big a snob as he and his friends of the Travelers,
                        willing to make any sacrifice to be "in the push." But, while Matthew
                        Black-lock has the streak of snob in him that's natural to all human beings
                        and to most animals, he is not quite insane. No, the thing I intended to
                        think over was how to stay in the "bucketshop" business, but wash myself of
                        its odium. Bucket-shop! What snobbery! Yet it's human nature, too. The
                        wholesale merchant looks down on the retailer, the big retailer on the
                        little; the burglar despises the pickpocket; the financier, the small
                        promoter; the man who works with his brain, the man who works with his
                        hands. A silly lot we aresilly to look down, sillier to feel badly when
                        we're looked down upon.
                
                
                
                    VI
                    OF "GENTLEMEN"
                    When I got back to my office and was settling to the proofs of the "Letter to
                        Investors," which I published in sixty newspapers throughout the country and
                        which daily reached upward of five million people, Sam Ellersly came in. His
                        manner was certainly different from what it had ever been before; a
                        difference so subtle that I couldn't describe it more nearly than to say it
                        made me feel as if he had not until then been treating me as of the same
                        class with himself. I smiled to myself and made an entry in my mental ledger
                        to the credit of Mowbray Langdon.
                    "That club business is going nicely," said Sam. "Langdon is enthusiastic, and
                        I find you've got good friends on the committee."
                    I knew that well enough. Hadn't I been carrying them on my books at a good
                        round loss for two years?
                    "If it wasn't forfor some features of this 
                        business of yours," he went on, "I'd say there wouldn't be the slightest
                        trouble."
                    "Bucket-shop?" said I with an easy laugh, though this nagging was beginning
                        to get on my nerves.
                    "Exactly," said he. "And, you know, you advertise yourself likelike"
                    "Like everybody else, only more successfully than most," said I. "Everybody
                        advertises, each one adapting his advertising to the needs of his
                        enterprises, as far as he knows how."
                    "That's true enough," he confessed. "But there are enterprises and
                        enterprises, you know."
                    "You can tell 'em, Sam," said I, "that I never put out a statement I don't
                        believe to be true, and that when any of my followers lose on one of my
                        tips, I've lost on it, too. For I play my own tipsand that's more than can
                        be said of any 'financier' in this town."
                    "It'd be no use to tell 'em that," said he. "Character's something of a
                        consideration in social matters, of course. But it isn't the chief
                        consideration by a long shot, and the absence of it isn't necessarily
                        fatal."
                    "I'm the biggest single operator in the country," I went on. "And it's my
                        methods that give  me successbecause I know how
                        to advertisehow to keep my name before the country, and how to make men say,
                        whenever they hear it: 'There's a shrewd, honest fellow.' That and the
                        people it brings me, in flocks, are my stock in trade. Honesty's a bluff
                        with most of the big respectables; under cover of their respectability, of
                        their 'old and honored names,' of their social connections, of their
                        church-going and that, they do all sorts of queer work."
                    "To hear you talk," put in Sam, with a grin, "one would think you didn't
                        shove off millions of dollars of suspicious stuff on the public through
                        those damn clever letters of yours."
                    "There's where you didn't stop to think, Sam," said I. "When I say a stock's
                        going to rise, it rises. When I stop talking about it, it may go on rising
                        or it may fall. But I never advise anybody to buy except when I have every
                        reason to believe it's a good thing. If they hold on too long, that's their
                        own lookout."
                    "But they invest"
                    "You use words too carelessly," I said. "When I say buy, I don't mean invest. When I mean invest, I say invest." There I
                        laughed.
                    "It's a word I don't often use."
                    
                    "And that's what you call honesty!" jeered he.
                    "That's what I call honesty," I retorted, "and that is
                        honesty." And I thought so then.
                    "Wellevery man has a right to his own notion of what's honest," he said. "But
                        no man's got a right to complain if a fellow with a different notion
                        criticizes him."
                    "None in the world," I assented. "Do you criticize me?"
                    "No, no, no, indeed!" he answered, nervous, and taking seriously what I had
                        intended as a joke.
                    After a while I dragged in the subject. "One thing I can
                        and will do to get myself in line for that club," I said, like a seal on
                        promenade. "I'm sick of the crowd I travel withthe men and the women. I feel
                        it's about time I settled down. I've got a fortune and establishment that
                        needs a woman to set it off. I can make some woman happy. You don't happen
                        to know any nice girlsthe right sort, I mean?"
                    "Not many," said Sam. "You'd better go back to the country where you came
                        from, and get her there. She'd be eternally grateful, and her head wouldn't
                        be full of mercenary nonsense."
                    
                    Excuse me!" exclaimed I. "It'd turn her head. She'd go clean crazy. She'd
                        plunge in up to her neckand not being used to these waters, she'd make a
                        show of herself, and probably drown, dragging me down with her, if
                        possible."
                    Sam laughed. "Keep out of marriage, Matt," he advised. not so obtuse to my
                        real point as he wanted me to believe. "I know the kind of girl you've got
                        in mind. She'd marry you for your money, and she'd never appreciate you.
                        She'd see in you only the lack of the things she's been taught to lay stress
                        on."
                    "For instance?"
                    "I couldn't tell you any more than I could enable you to recognize a person
                        you'd never seen by describing him."
                    "Ain't I a gentleman?" I inquired.
                    He laughed, as if the idea tickled him. "Of course," he said. "Of course."
                    "Ain't I got as proper a country place as there is a-going? Ain't my
                        apartment in the Willoughby a peach? Don't I give as elegant dinners as you
                        ever sat down to? Don't I dress right up to the Piccadilly latest? Don't I
                        act all rightknow enough to keep my feet off the table  and my knife out of my mouth?" All true enough; and I so crude
                        then that I hadn't a suspicion what a flat contradiction of my pretensions
                        and beliefs about myself the very words and phrases were.
                    "You're right in it, Matt," said Sam. "Butwellyou haven't traveled with our
                        crowd, and they're shy of strangers, especially asas energetic a sort of
                        stranger as you are. You're too sudden, Matttoo dazzlingtoo"
                    "Too shiny and new?" said I, beginning to catch his drift. "That'll be looked
                        after. What I want is you to take me round a bit."
                    "I can't ask you to people's houses," protested he, knowing I'd not realize
                        what a flimsy pretense that was.
                    While we were talking I had been thinkingworking out the proposition along
                        lines he had indicated to me without knowing it. "Look here, Sam, " I said.
                        "You imagine I'm trying to butt in with a lot of people that don't know me
                        and don't want to know me. But that ain't my point of view. Those people can
                        be useful to me. I need 'em. What do I care whether they want to be useful
                        to me or not? The machine'd have run down and rusted out long ago  if you and your friends' idea of a gentleman
                        had been taken seriously by anybody who had anything to do and knew how to
                        do it. In this world you've got to make people do what's
                        for your good and their own. Your idea of a gentleman was put forward by
                        lazy fakirs who were living off of what their ungentlemanly ancestors had
                        annexed, and who didn't want to be disturbed. So they "fixed" the game by
                        passing these rules you and your kind are fools enough to abide bythat is,
                        you are fools, unless you haven't got brains enough to get on in a
                        free-and-fair-for-all."
                    Sam laughed. "There's a lot of truth in what you say," he admitted.
                    "However," I ended, "my plans don't call for hurry just there. When I get
                        ready to go round, I'll let you know."
                
                
                
                    VII
                    BLACKLOCK GOES INTO TRAINING
                    This brings me to the ugliest story my enemies have concocted against me. No
                        one appreciates more thoroughly than I that, to rise high, a man must have
                        his own efforts seconded by the flood of vituperation that his enemies send
                        to over-whelm him, and which washes him far higher than he could hope to
                        lift himself. So I do not here refer to any attack on me in the public
                        prints; I think of them only with amusement and gratitude. The story that
                        rankles is the one these foes of mine set creeping, like a snake under the
                        fallen leaves, everywhere, anywhere, unseen, without a trail. It has been
                        whispered into every earand it is, no doubt, widely believedthat I
                        deliberately put old Bromwell Ellersly "in a hole," and there tortured him
                        until he consented to try to compel his daughter to marry me.
                    It is possible that, if I had thought of such a devilish device, I might have
                        tried itis not all  fair in love? But there was
                        no need for my cudgeling my brains to carry that particular fortification on
                        my way to what I had fixed my will upon. Bromwell Ellersly came
                            to me of his own accord.
                    
                    I suppose the Ellerslys must have talked me over in the family circle.
                        However this may be, my acquaintance with her father began with Sam's asking
                        me to lunch with him. " The governor has heard me talk of you so much," said
                        he, "that he is anxious to meet you."
                    I found him a dried-up, conventional old gentleman, very proud of his
                        ancestors, none of whom I had ever heard of, and very positive that a great
                        deal of deference was due himthough on what grounds I could not then, and
                        can not now, make out. I soon discovered that it was the scent of my
                        stock-tip generosity, wafted to him by Sammy, that had put him hot upon my
                        trail. I hadn't gone far into his affairs before I learned that he had been
                        speculating, mortgaging, kiting notes, doing what he called, and thought, "
                        business" on a large scale. He regarded business as beneath the dignity and
                        the intellect of a " gentleman"how my gorge does rise at that word! So he
                        put his great mind on it only for a few  hours
                        now and then; he reserved the rest of his time for what he regarded as the
                        proper concerns of a gentlemanattending to social "duties," reading
                        pretentious books, looking at the pictures and listening to the music
                        decreed fashionable.
                    They charge that I put him "in a hole." In fact, I found him at the bottom of
                        a deep pit he had dug for himself; and when he first met me he was, without
                        having the sense to realize it, just about to go smash, with not a penny for
                        his old age. As soon as I had got this fact clear of the tangle, I showed it
                        to him.
                    "My God, what is to become of me?" he said, That was his
                        only thoughtnot, what is to become of my wife and daughter; but, what is to
                        become of "me!" I do not blame him for this. Naturally
                        enough, people who have always been used to everything become,
                        unconsciously, monsters of egotism and selfishness; it is natural, too, that
                        they should imagine themselves liberal and generous if they give away
                        occasionally something that costs them, at most, nothing more serious than
                        the foregoing of some extravagant luxury or other. I recite his remark
                        simply to show what manner of man he was, what sort of creature I had to
                        deal with.
                    
                    I offered to help him, and I did help him. Is there any one, knowing anything
                        of the facts of life, who will censure me when I admit that Iwith
                        deliberationsimply tided him over, did not make for him and present to him a
                        fortune? What chance should I have had, if I had been so absurdly generous
                        to a man who deserved nothing but punishment for his selfish and bigoted
                        mode of life? I took away his worst burdens; but I left him more than he
                        could carry without my help. And it was not until he had appealed in vain to
                        all his social friends to relieve him of the necessity of my aid, not until
                        he realized that I was his only hope of escaping a sharp comedown from
                        luxury to very modest comfort in a flat somewherenot until then did his wife
                        send me an invitation to dinner. And I had not so much as hinted that I
                        wanted it.
                    I shall never forget the smallest detail of that dinnerit was a purely
                        "family" affair, only the Ellerslys and I. I can feel now the oppressive
                        atmosphere, the look as of impending sacrilege upon the faces of the old
                        servants; I can see Mrs. Ellersly trying to condescend to be "gracious," and
                        treating me as if I were some sort of museum freak or menagerie exhibit. I
                        can see  Anita. She was like a statue of snow;
                        she spoke not a word; if she lifted her eyes, I failed to note it. And when
                        I was leavingI with my collar wilted from the fierce, nervous strain I had
                        been enduringMrs. Ellersly, in that voice of hers into which I don't believe
                        any shade of a real human emotion ever penetrated, said: "You must come to
                        see us, Mr. Blacklock. We are always at home after five."
                    I looked at Miss Ellersly. She was white to the lips now, and the spangles on
                        her white dress seemed bits of ice glittering there. She said nothing; but I
                        knew she felt my look, and that it froze the ice the more closely in around
                        her heart. "Thank you," I muttered.
                    I stumbled in the hall; I almost fell down the broad steps. I stopped at the
                        first bar and took three drinks in quick succession. I went on down the
                        avenue, breathing like an exhausted swimmer. "I'll give her up!" I cried
                        aloud, so upset was I.
                    I am a man of impulse; but I have trained myself not to be a creature of impulse at least not in matters of importance. Without
                        that patient and painful schooling, I shouldn't have got where I now am;
                        probably I'd still be blacking boots, or sheet-writing for some bookmaker,
                        or clerking it  for some broker. Before I got
                        to my rooms, the night air and my habit of the "sober second thought" had
                        cooled me back to rationality.
                    "I want her, I need her," I was saying to myself. "I am worthier of her than
                        are those mincing manikins she has been bred to regard as men. She is for
                        meshe belongs to me. I'll abandon her to no smirking puppet who'd wear her
                        as a donkey, would a diamond. Why should I do myself and her an injury
                        simply because she has been too badly brought up to know her own interest?"
                    And now I see all the smooth frauds, all the weak people who never have
                        purposes or passions worthy of the name, all the finicky, finger-dusting
                        gentry with the "fine souls," who flatter themselves that their timidity is
                        the squeamishness of superior sensibilitiesI see all these feeble folk
                        fluttering their feeble fingers in horror of me. "The brute!" they cry; "the
                        bounder!" Well, I accept the names quite cheerfully. Those are the epithets
                        the wishy-washy always hurl at the strong; they put me in the small and
                        truly aristocratic class of men who do. I proudly avow
                        myself no subscriber to the code that was made by the shearers to encourage
                        the sheep to keep on  being nice docile
                        animals, trotting meekly up to be shorn or slaughtered as their masters may
                        decide. I harm no man, and no woman; but neither do I pause to weep over any
                        man or any woman who flings himself or herself upon my steady spear. I try
                        to be courteous and considerate to all; but I do not stop when some fellow
                        who has something that belongs to me shouts "Rude!" at me to sheer me off.
                    At the same time, her delicate beauty, her quiet, distinctive, high-bred
                        manner, had thrust it home to me that in certain respects I was ignorant and
                        crudeas who would not have been, brought up as was I? I knew there was,
                        somewhere between my roughness of the uncut individuality and the smoothness
                        of the planed and sand-papered nonentity of her "set," a mean, better than
                        either, better because more efficient.
                    When this was clear to me I sent for my trainer. He was one of those spare,
                        wiry Englishmen, with skin like tanned and painted hidebrown except where
                        the bones seem about to push their sharp angles through, and there a frosty,
                        winter-apple red. He dressed like a Deadwood gambler, he talked like a
                        stable boy; but for all that, you couldn't fail to see he was a gentleman
                        born and  bred. Yes, he was a gentleman, though
                        he mixed profanity into his ordinary flow of conversation more liberally
                        than did I when in a rage.
                    I stood up before him, threw my coat back, thrust my thumbs into my trousers
                        pockets and slowly turned about like a ready-made tailor's dummy. "Monson,"
                        said I, "what do you think of me?"
                    He looked me over as if I were a horse he was about to buy. "Sound, I'd say,"
                        was his verdict. "Good winduncommon good wind. A goer, and a stayer. Not a
                        lump. Not a hair out of place." He laughed. "Action a bit high perhapsfor
                        the track. But a grand reach."
                    "I know all that," said I. "You miss my point. Suppose you wanted to enter me
                        forsay, the Society Sweepstakeswhat then?"
                    "Umum," he muttered reflectively. "That's different."
                    "Don't I looksort ofnewas if the varnish was still sticky and might come off
                        on the ladies' dresses and on the fine furniture?"
                    "Ohthat!" said he dubiously. "But all those kinds of things are matters of
                        taste."
                    "Out with it!" I commanded. "Don't be afraid. I'm not one of those damn fools
                        that ask  for criticism when they want only
                        flattery, as you ought to know by this time. I'm aware of my good points,
                        know how good they are better than anybody else in the world. And I suspect
                        my weak pointsalways did. I've got on chiefly because I made people tell me
                        to my face what they'd rather have grinned over behind my back."
                    "What's your game?" asked Monson. "I'm in the dark."
                    "I'll tell you, Monson. I hired you to train horses. Now I want to hire you
                        to train me, too As it's double work, it's double pay."
                    "Say on," said he, "and say it slow."
                    "I want to marry," I explained. "I want to inspect all the offerings before I
                        decide. You are to train me so that I can go among the herds that'd shy off
                        from me if I wasn't on to their little ways."
                    He looked suspiciously at me, doubtless thinking this some new development of
                        "American humor."
                    "I mean it," I assured him. "I'm going to train, and train hard. I've got no
                        time to lose. I must be on my way down the aisle inside of three months. I
                        give you a free hand. I'll do just what you say."
                    
                    "The job's out of my line," he protested.
                    "I know better," said I. "I've always seen the parlor under the stable in
                        you. We'll begin right away. What do you think of these clothes?"
                    "Wellthey're not exactly noisy," he said. "Butthey're far from silent. That
                        waistcoat" He stopped and gave me another nervous, timid look. He found it
                        hard to believe a man of my sort, so self-assured, would stand the truth
                        from a man of his second-fiddle sort.
                    "Go on!" I commanded. "Speak out! Mowbray Langdon had on one twice as loud
                        the other day at the track."
                    "But, perhaps you'll remember, it was only his waistcoat that was loudnot he
                        himself. Now, a man of your manner and voice andyou've got a look out of the
                        eyes that'd wake the dead all by itself. People can feel you coming before
                        they hear you. When they feel and hear and see all togetherit's like a brass
                        band in scarlet uniform, with a seven-foot, sky-blue drum major. If your
                        hair wasn't so black and your eyes so steel-blue and sharp, and your teeth
                        so big and strong and white, and your jaw such asuch ajaw"
                    
                    "I see the point," said I. And I did. "You'll find you won't need to tell me
                        many things twice. I've got a busy day before me here; so we'll have to
                        suspend this until you come to dine with me at eightat my rooms. I want you
                        to put in the time well. Go to my house in the country and then up to my
                        apartment; take my valet with you; look through all my belongingsshirts,
                        ties, socks, trousers, waistcoats, clothes of every kind. Throw out every
                        rag you think doesn't fit in with what I want to be. How's my grammar?"
                    I was proud of it; I had been taking more or less pains with my mode of
                        speech for a dozen years. "Rather too good," said he. "But that's better
                        than making the breaks that aren't regarded as good form."
                    "Good form!" I exclaimed. "That's it! That's what I want! What does 'good
                        form' mean?"
                    He laughed. "You can search me," said he. "I could easier tell youanything
                        else. It's what everybody recognizes on sight, and nobody knows how to
                        describe. It's like the difference between a cultivated 'jimson' weed and a
                        wild one."
                    
                    "Like the difference between Mowbray Langdon and me," I suggested
                        good-naturedly. "How about my manners?"
                    "Not so bad," said he. "Not so rotten bad. Butwhen you're polite, you're a
                        little too polite; when you're not polite, you"
                    "Show where I came from too plainly?" said I. "Speak right outhit good and
                        hard. Am I too frank for 'good form'?"
                    "You needn't bother about that," he assured me. "Say whatever comes into your
                        headonly, be sure the right sort of thing comes into your head. Don't talk
                        too much about yourself, for instance. It's good form to think about
                        yourself all the time; it's bad form to let people see itin your talk. Say
                        as little as possible about your business and about what you've got. Don't
                        be lavish with the I's and the my's."
                    "That's harder," said I. "I'm a man who has always minded his own business,
                        and cared for nothing else. What could I talk about, except myself?"
                    "Blest if I know," replied he. "Where you want to go, the last thing people
                        mind is their own businessin talk, at least. But you'll get on all right if
                        you don't worry too much about  it. You've got
                        natural independence, and an original way of putting things, and common
                        sense. Don't be afraid."
                    "Afraid!" said I. "I never knew what it was to be afraid."
                    "Your nerve'll carry you through," he assured me. "Nerve'll take a man
                        anywhere."
                    "You never said a truer thing in your life," said I. "It'll take him wherever
                        he wants, and, after he's there, it'll get him whatever he wants."
                    And with that, I, thinking of my plans and of how sure I was of success,
                        began to march up and down the office with my chest thrown outuntil I caught
                        myself at it. That stopped me, set me off in a laugh at my own expense, he
                        joining in with a kind of heartiness I did not like, though I did not
                        venture to check him.
                    So ended the first lessonthe first of a long series. I soon saw that Monson
                        was being most useful to mefar more useful than if he were a "perfect
                        gentleman" with nothing of the track and stable and back stairs about him.
                        Being a sort of betwixt and between, he could appreciate my needs as they
                        could not have been appreciated by a fellow who had never lived in the
                        rough-and-tumble I had fought my way up through.  And being at bottom a real gentleman, and not one of those nervous,
                        snobbish make-believes, he wasn't so busy trying to hide his own
                        deficiencies from me that he couldn't teach me anything. He wasn't afraid of
                        being found out, as Samor perhaps, even Langdonwould have been in the same
                        circumstances. I wonder if there is another country where so many gentlemen
                        and ladies are born, or another where so many of them have their natural
                        gentility educated out of them.
                
                
                
                    VIII
                    ON THE TRAIL OF LANGDON
                    I had Monson with me twice each week-dayearly in the morning and again after
                        business hours until bed-time. Also he spent the whole of every Saturday and
                        Sunday with me. He developed astonishing dexterity as a teacher, and as soon
                        as he realized that I had no false pride and was thoroughly in earnest, he
                        handled me without gloveslike a boxing teacher who finds that his pupil has
                        the grit of a professional. It was easy enough for me to grasp the theory of
                        my new businessit was nothing more than "Be natural." But the rub came in
                        making myself naturally of the right sort. I hadas I suppose every man of
                        intelligence and decent instincts hasa disposition to be friendly and
                        simple. But my manner was by nature what you might call abrupt. My not very
                        easy task was to learn the subtle difference between the abrupt that injects
                        a tonic into social intercourse, and the 
                        abrupt that makes the other person shut up with a feeling of having been
                        insulted.
                    Then, there was the matter of good taste in conversation. Monson found, as I
                        soon saw, that my everlasting self-assertiveness was beyond cure. As I said
                        to him: "I'm afraid you might easier succeed in reducing my chest measure."
                        But we worked away at it, and perhaps my readers may discover even in this
                        narrative, though it is necessarily egotistic, evidence of at least an
                        honest effort not to be baldly boastful. Monson would have liked to make of
                        me a self-deprecating sort of personsuch as he was himself, with the result
                        that the other fellow always got the prize and he got left. But I would have
                        none of it.
                    "How are people to know about you, if you don't tell 'em?" I argued. "Don't
                        you yourself admit that men take a man at his own valuation less a slight
                        discount, and that women take him at his own valuation plus an allowance for
                        his supposed modesty?"
                    "Cracking yourself up is vulgar, nevertheless," declared the Englishman.
                        "It's the chief reason why we on the other side look on you Americans as a
                        lot of vulgarians"
                    
                    "And are in awe of our superior cleverness," I put in.
                    He laughed.
                    "Well, do the best you can," said he. "Only, you really must not brag and
                        swagger, and you must get out of the habit of talking louder than any one
                        else."
                    In the matter of dress, our task was easy. I had a fancy for bright colors
                        and for strong contrasts; but I know I never indulged in clashes and
                        discords. It was simply that in clothes I had the same taste as in
                        picturesthe taste that made me prefer Rubens to Rembrandt. We cast out of my
                        wardrobe everything in the least doubtful; and I gave away my jeweled canes,
                        my pins and links and buttons for shirts and waistcoats except plain gold
                        and pearls. I even left off the magnificent diamond I had worn for years on
                        my little fingerbut I didn't give away that stone; I put it by for resetting
                        into an engagement ring. However, when I was as quietly dressed as it was
                        possible for a gentleman to be, he still studied me dubiously, when he
                        thought I wasn't seeing him. And I recall that he said once: "It's your
                        face, Blacklock. If you could only manage to look less like a Spanish bull
                        dashing into the  ring, gazing joyfully about
                        for somebody to gore and toss!"
                    "But I can't," said I. "And I wouldn't if I couldbecause that's me!"
                    One Saturday he brought a dancing master down to my country placeDawn Hill,
                        which I bought of the Dumont estate and completely remodeled. I saw what the
                        man's business was the instant I looked at him. I left him in the hall and
                        took Monson into my den.
                    "Not for me!" I protested. "There's where I draw the line."
                    "You don't understand," he urged. "This fellow, this Alphonse Lynch, out in
                        the hall there, isn't going to teach you dancing so that you may dance, but
                        so that you shall be less awkward in strange company."
                    "My walk suits me," said I. "And I don't fall over furniture or trip people
                        up."
                    "True enough," he answered. "But you haven't the complete control of your
                        body that'll make you unconscious of it when you're suddenly shot by a
                        butler into a room full of people you suspect of being unfriendly and
                        critical."
                    Not until he used his authority as trainer-in-full-charge, did I yield. It
                        may seem absurd  to some for a serious man like
                        me solemnly to caper about in imitation of a scraping, grimacing
                        French-Irishman; but Monson was right, and I haven't in the least minded the
                        ridicule he has brought on me by tattling this and the other things
                        everywhere, since he turned against me. It's nothing new under the sun for
                        the crowds of chuckleheads to laugh where they ought to applaud; their habit
                        is to laugh and to applaud in the wrong places. There's no part of my career
                        that I'm prouder of than the whole of this thorough course of education in
                        the trifles that are yet not trifles. To have been ignorant is no disgrace;
                        the disgrace comes when one persists in ignorance and glories in it.
                    Yet those who make the most pretensions in this topsy-turvy of a world regard
                        it as a disgrace to have been obscure and ignorant, and pride themselves
                        upon their persistence in their own kind of obscurity and ignorance! No
                        wonder the few strong men do about as they please with such a race of
                        nincompoopery. If they didn't grow old and tired, what would they not do?
                    All this time I was giving myselfor thought I was giving myselfchiefly to my
                             business, as usual. I know now that the
                        new interests had in fact crowded the things down town far into the
                        background, had impaired my judgment, had suspended my common sense; but I
                        had no inkling of this then. The most important matter that was occupying me
                        down town was pushing Textile up toward par. Langdon's doubts, little though
                        they influenced me, still made enough of an impression to cause me to test
                        the market. I sold for him at ninety, as he had directed; I sold in quantity
                        every day. But no matter how much I unloaded, the price showed no tendency
                        to break.
                    "This," said I to myself, "is a testimonial to the skill with which I
                        prepared for my bull campaign." And that seemed to meall unsuspicious as I
                        then wasa sufficient explanation of the steadiness of the stock which I had
                        worked to establish in the public confidence.
                    I felt that, if my matrimonial plans should turn out as I confidently
                        expected, I should need a much larger fortune than I hadfor I was determined
                        that my wife should have an establishment second to none.
                        Accordingly, I enlarged my original plan. I had intended to keep close to
                        Langdon in that plunge; I believed I 
                        controlled the market, but I hadn't been in Wall Street twenty years without
                        learning that the worst thunderbolts fall from cloudless skies. Without
                        being in the least suspicious of Langdon, and simply acting on the general
                        principle that surprise and treachery are part of the code of high finance,
                        I had prepared to guard, first, against being taken in the rear by a secret
                        change of plan on Langdon's part, and second, against being involved and
                        overwhelmed by a sudden secret attack on him from some associate of his who
                        might think he had laid himself open to successful raiding.
                    The market is especially dangerous toward Christmas and in the springtoward
                        Christmas the big fellows often juggle the stocks to get the money for their
                        big Christmas gifts and alms; toward spring the motive is, of course, the
                        extra summer expenses of their families and the commencement gifts to
                        colleges. It was now late in the spring.
                    I say, I had intended to be cautious. I abandoned caution and rushed in
                        boldly, feeling that the market was, in general, safe and that Textile was
                        under my controland that I was one of the kings of high finance, with my
                        lucky star in  the zenith. I decided to
                        continue my bull campaign on my own account for two weeks after I had
                        unloaded for Langdon, to continue it until the stock was at par. I had no
                        difficulty in pushing it to ninety-seven, and I was not alarmed when I found
                        myself loaded up with it, quoted at ninety-eight for the preferred and
                        thirty for the common. I assumed that I was practically its only supporter
                        and that it would slowly settle back as I slowly withdrew my support.
                    To my surprise, the stock did not yield immediately under my efforts to
                        depress it. I sold more heavily; Textile continued to show a tendency to
                        rise. I sold still more heavily; it broke a point or two, then steadied and
                        rose again. Instead of sending out along my secret lines for inside
                        information, as I should have done, and would have done had I not been in a
                        state of hypnotized judgmentI went to Langdon! I who had been studying those
                        scoundrels for twenty-odd years, and dealing directly with and for them for
                        ten years!
                    He wasn't at his office; they told me there that they didn't know whether he
                        was at his town house or at his place in the country"probably in the
                        country," said his down-town secretary,  with
                        elaborate carelessness. "He wouldn't be likely to stay away from the office
                        or not to send for me, if he were in town, would he?"
                    It takes an uncommon good liar to lie to me when I'm on the alert. As I was
                        determined to see Langdon, I was in so far on the alert. And I felt the
                        fellow was lying. "That's reasonable," said I. "Call me up, if you hear from
                        him. I want to see himimportant, but not immediate." And I went away, having
                        left the impression that I would make no further effort.
                    Incredible though it may seem, especially to those who know how careful I am
                        to guard every point and to see in every friend a possible foe, I still did
                        not suspect that smooth, that profound scoundrel. I do not use these
                        epithets with heat. I flatter myself I am a connoisseur of finesse and can
                        look even at my own affairs with judicial impartiality. And Langdon was, and
                        is now, such a past master of finesse that he compels the admiration even of
                        his victims. He's like one of those fabled Damascus blades. When he takes a
                        leg off, the victim forgets to suffer in his amazement at the cleanness of
                        the wound, in his incredulity that the leg is no longer part of him.
                        "Langdon," said I to myself, "is a sly  dog. No
                        doubt he's busy about some woman, and has covered his tracks." Yet I ought,
                        in the circumstances, instantly to have suspected that I was the person he
                        was dodging.
                    I went up to his house. You, no doubt, have often seen and often admired its
                        beautiful faade, so simple that it hides its own magnificence from all but
                        experienced eyes, so perfect in its proportions that it hides the vastness
                        of the palace of which it is the face. I have heard men say: "I'd like to
                        have a housea moderate-sized houseone about the size of Mowbray
                        Langdon'sthough perhaps a little more elegant, not so plain."
                    That's typical of the man. You have to look closely at him, to study him,
                        before you appreciate how he has combined a thousand details of manner and
                        dress into an appearance which, while it can not but impress the ordinary
                        man with its distinction, suggests to all but the very observant the most
                        modest plainness and simplicity. How few realize that simplicity must be
                        profound, complex, studied, not to be and to appear crude and coarse. In
                        those days that truth had just begun to dawn on me.
                    "Mr. Langdon isn't at home," said the servant.
                    
                    I had been at his house once before; I knew he occupied the left sidethe
                        whole of the second floor, so shut off that it not only had a separate
                        entrance, but also could not be reached by those in the right side of the
                        house without descending to the entrance hall and ascending the left
                        stairway.
                    "Just take my card to his private secretary, to Mr. Rathburn," said I. "Mr.
                        Langdon has doubtless left a message for me."
                    The butler hesitated, yielded, showed me into the reception-room off the
                        entrance hall. I waited a few seconds, then adventured the stairway to the
                        left, up which he had disappeared. I entered the small salon in which
                        Langdon had received me on my other visit. From the direction of an open
                        door, I heard his voicehe was saying: "I am not at home. There's no
                        message."
                    And still I did not realize that it was I he was avoiding!
                    "It's no use now, Langdon," I called cheerfully. "Beg pardon for seeming to
                        intrude. I misunderstoodor didn't hear where the servant said I was to wait.
                        However, no harm done. So long! I'm off." But I made no move toward  the door by which I had entered; instead, I
                        advanced a few feet nearer the door from which his voice had come.
                    After a briefa very briefpause, there came in Langdon's voicelaughing, not a
                        trace of annoyance: "I might have known! Come in, Matt!"
                
                
                
                    IX
                    LANGDON AT HOME
                    I entered, with an amused glance at the butler, who was giving over his heavy
                        countenance to a delightful exhibition of disgust and discomfiture. It was
                        Langdon's sitting-room. He had had the carved antique oak interior of a room
                        in an old French palace torn out and transported to New York and set up for
                        him. I had made a study of that sort of thing, and at Dawn Hill had done
                        something toward realizing my own ideas of the splendid. But a glance showed
                        me that I was far surpassed. What I had done seemed in comparison like the
                        composition of a school-boy beside an essay by Goldsmith or Hazlitt.
                    And in the midst of this quiet splendor sat, or rather lounged, Langdon,
                        reading the newspapers. He was dressed in a dark blue velvet house-suit with
                        facings and cords of blue silk a shade or so lighter than the suit. I had
                        always thought him handsome; he looked now like a god. He  was smoking a cigarette in an oriental holder
                        nearly a foot long; but the air of the room, so perfect was the ventilation,
                        instead of being scented with tobacco, had the odor of some fresh, clean,
                        slightly saline perfume.
                    I think what was in my mind must have shown in my face, must have subtly
                        flattered him, for, when I looked at him, he was giving me a look of genuine
                        friendly kindliness. "This isperfect, Langdon," said I. "And I think I'm a
                        judge."
                    "Glad you like it," said he, trying to dissemble his satisfaction in so
                        strongly impressing me.
                    "You must take me through your house sometime," I went on. "I'm going to
                        build soon. Nodon't be afraid I'll imitate. I'm too vain for that. But I
                        want suggestions. I'm not ashamed to go to school to a masterto anybody, for
                        that matter."
                    "Why do you build?" said he. "A town house is a nuisance. If I could induce
                        my wife to take the children to the country to live, I'd dispose of this."
                    "That's itthe wife," said I.
                    "But you have no wife. At least"
                    "No," I replied with a laugh. "Not yet. But I'm going to have."
                    
                    I interpreted his expression then as amused cynicism. But I see a different
                        meaning in it now. And I can recall his tone, can find a strained note which
                        then escaped me in his usual mocking drawl.
                    "To marry?" said he. "I haven't heard of that."
                    "Nor no one else," said I.
                    "Except her," said he.
                    "Not even except her," said I. "But I've got my eye on herand you know what
                        that means with me."
                    "Yes, I know," drawled he. Then he added, with a curious twinkle which I do
                        not now misunderstand: "We have somewhat the same weakness."
                    "I shouldn't call it a weakness," said I. "It's the quality that makes the
                        chief difference between us and the common runthe fellows that have no
                        purposes beyond getting comfortably through each day"
                    "And getting real happiness," he interrupted, with just a tinge of
                        bitterness.
                    "We wouldn't think it happiness," was my answer.
                    "The worse for us," he replied. "We're  under
                        the tyranny of to-morrowand happiness is impossible."
                    "May I look at your bedroom?" I asked.
                    "Certainly," he assented.
                    I pushed open the door he indicated. At first glimpse I was disappointed. The
                        big room looked like a section of a hospital ward. It wasn't until I had
                        taken a second and very careful look at the tiled floor, walls, ceiling,
                        that I noted that those plain smooth tiles were of the very finest, were
                        probably of his own designing, certainly had been imported from some great
                        Dutch or German kiln. Not an inch of drapery, not a picture, nothing that
                        could hold dust or germs anywhere; a square of sanitary matting by the bed;
                        another square opposite an elaborate exercising machine. The bed was of the
                        simplest metallic constructionbut I noted that the metal was the finest
                        bronze. On it was a thin, hard mattress. You could wash the big room down
                        and out with the hose, without doing any damage.
                    "Quite a contrast," said I, glancing from the one room to the other.
                    "My architect is a crank on sanitation," he explained, from his lounge.
                    I noted that the windows were hugeto admit 
                        floods of lightand that they were hermetically sealed so that the air should
                        be only the pure air supplied from the ventilating apparatus. To many people
                        that room would have seemed a cheaply got together cell; to me, once I had
                        examined it, it was evidently built at enormous cost and represented an
                        extravagance of commonsense luxury which was more than princely or royal.
                    Suddenly my mind reverted to my business. "How do you account for the
                        steadiness of Textile, Langdon?" I asked, returning to the carved
                        sitting-room and trying to put those surroundings out of my mind.
                    "I don't account for it," was his languid, uninterested reply.
                    "Any of your people under the market?"
                    "It isn't to my interest to have it supported, is it?" he replied.
                    "I know that," I admitted. "But why doesn't it drop?"
                    "Those letters of yours may have overeducated the public in confidence,"
                        suggested he. "Your followers have the habit of believing implicitly
                        whatever you say."
                    "Yes, but I haven't written a line about Textile  tile for nearly a month now," I pretended to object, my vanity fairly
                        purring with pleasure.
                    "That's the only reason I can give," said he.
                    "You are sure none of your people is supporting the stock?" I asked, as a
                        form and not for information; for I thought I knew they weren'tI trusted him
                        to have seen to that.
                    "I'd like to get my holdings back," said he. "I can't buy until it's down.
                        And I know none of my people would dare support it."
                    You will notice he did not say directly that he was not himself supporting
                        the market; he simply so answered me that I, not suspecting him, would think
                        he reassured me. There is another of those mysteries of conscience. Had it
                        been necessary, Langdon would have told me the lie flat and direct, would
                        have told it without a tremor of the voice or a blink of the eye, would have
                        lied to me as I have heard him, and almost all the big fellows, lie under
                        oath before courts and legislative committees; yet, so long as it was
                        possible, he would thus lie to me with lies that were not lies. As if
                        negative lies are not falser and more cowardly than positive lies, because
                        securer and more deceptive.
                    "Well, then, the price must break," said I.
                    
                    "It won't be many days before the public begins to realize that there isn't
                        anybody under Textile."
                    "No sharp break!" he said carelessly. "No panic!"
                    "I'll see to that," replied I, with not a shadow of a notion of the subtlety
                        behind his warning.
                    "I hope it will break soon," he then said, adding in his friendliest voice
                        with what I now know was malignant treachery: "You owe it to me to bring it
                        down." That meant that he wished me to increase my already far too heavy and
                        dangerous line of shorts.
                    Just then a voicea woman's voicecame from the salon. "May I come in? Do I
                        interrupt?" it said, and its tone struck me as having in it something of
                        plaintive appeal.
                    "Excuse me a moment, Blacklock," said he, rising with what was for him haste.
                    But he was too late. The woman entered, searching the room with a piercing,
                        suspicious gaze. At once I saw, behind that look, a jealousy that pounced on
                        every object that came into its view, and studied it with a hope that feared
                        and a fear that hoped. When her eyes had toured the room, they paused upon
                        him, seemed to be saying:  "You've baffled me
                        again, but I'm not discouraged. I shall catch you yet."
                    "Well, my dear?" said Langdon, whom she seemed faintly to amuse. "It's only
                        Mr. Blacklock. Mr. Blacklock, my wife."
                    I bowed; she looked coldly at me, and her slight nod was more than a hint
                        that she wished to be left alone with her husband.
                    I said to him: "Well, I'll be off. Thank you for"
                    "One moment," he interrupted. Then to his wife: "Anything special?"
                    She flushed. "Nonothing special. I just came to see you. But if I am
                        disturbing youas usual"
                    "Not at all," said he. "When Blacklock and I have finished, I'll come to you.
                        It won't be longer than an houror so."
                    "Is that all?" she said almost savagely. Evidently she was one of those women
                        who dare not make "scenes" with their husbands in private and so are
                        compelled to take advantage of the presence of strangers to ease their
                        minds. She was an extremely pretty woman, would have been beautiful but for
                        the worn, strained, nervous look that probably came from her jealousy. She
                             was small in stature; her figure was
                        approaching that stage at which a woman is calved "well rounded" by the
                        charitable, fat by the frank and accurate. A few years more and she would be
                        hunting down and destroying early photographs. There was in the arrangement
                        of her hair and in the details of her toiletas well as in her giving way to
                        her tendency to fatthat carelessness that so many women allow themselves,
                        once they are safely married to a man they care for.
                    "Curious," thought I, "that being married to him should make her feel secure
                        enough of him to let herself go, although her instinct is warning her all
                        the time that she isn't in the least sure of him. "Her laziness must be
                        stronger than her loveher laziness or her vanity."
                    While I was thus sizing her up, she was reluctantly leaving. She didn't even
                        give me the courtesy of a bowwhether from self-absorption or from
                        haughtiness I don't know; probably from both. She was a Western woman, and
                        when those Western women do become perverts to New York's gospel of
                        snobbishness, they are the worst snobs in the push. Langdon, regardless of
                        my presence, looked after her with a faintly amused, faintly contemptuous
                        expression that  well, it didn't fit in with
                            my notion of what constitutes a gentleman. In fact, I
                        didn't know which of them had come off the worse in that brief encounter in
                        my presence. It was my first glimpse of a fashionable behind-the-scenes, and
                        it made a profound impression upon mean impression that has grown deeper as
                        I have learned how much of the typical there was in it. Dirt looks worse in
                        the midst of finery than where one naturally expects to find itlooks worse,
                        and is worse.
                    When we were seated again, Langdon, after a few reflective puffs at his
                        cigarette, said: "So you're about to marry?"
                    "I hope so," said I. "But as I haven't asked her yet, I can't be quite sure."
                        For obvious reasons I wasn't so enamored of the idea of matrimony as I had
                        been a few minutes before.
                    "I trust you're making a sensible marriage," said he. "If the part that may
                        be glamour should by chance rub clean away, there ought to be something to
                        make one feel he wasn't wholly an ass."
                    "Very sensible," I replied with emphasis. "I want the woman. I need her."
                    He inspected the coal of his cigarette, lifting 
                        his eyebrows at it. Presently he said: "And she?"
                    "I don't know how she feels about itas I told you," I replied curtly. In
                        spite of myself, my eyes shifted and my skin began to burn. "By the way,
                        Langdon, what's the name of your architect? "
                    "Wilder and Marcy," said he. "They're fairly satisfactory, if you tell 'em
                        exactly what you want and watch 'em all the time. They're perfectly
                        conventional and so can't distinguish between originality that's artistic
                        and originality that's only bizarre. They're like most peoplethey keep to
                        the beaten track and fight tooth and nail against being drawn out of it and
                        against those who do go out of it."
                    "I'll have a talk with Marcy this very day," said I.
                    "Oh, you're in a hurry!" He laughed. "And you haven't asked her. You remind
                        me of that Greek philosopher who was in love with Lais. They asked him: 'But
                        does she love you?' And he said: 'One does not inquire of the fish one likes
                        whether it likes one."'
                    I flushed. "You'll pardon me, Langdon," said I, "but I don't like that. It
                        isn't my attitude  at all towardthe right sort
                        of women."
                    He looked half-quizzical, half-apologetic. "Ah, to be sure," said he. "I
                        forgot you weren't a married man."
                    "I don't think I'll ever lose the belief that there's a quality in a good
                        woman for a man toto respect and look up to."
                    "I envy you," said he, but his eyes were mocking still. I saw he was a little
                        disdainful of my rebuking himand angry at me, too.
                    "Woman's a subject of conversation that men ought to avoid," said I
                        easilyfor, having set myself right, I felt I could afford to smooth him
                        down.
                    "Well, good-bygood luckor, if I may be permitted to say it to one so touchy,
                        the kind of luck you're bent on having, whether it's good or bad."
                    "If my luck ain't good, I'll make it good," said I with a laugh.
                    And so I left him, with a look in his eyes that came back to me long
                        afterward when I realized the full meaning of that apparently almost
                        commonplace interview.
                    That same day I began to plunge on Textile. 
                        watching the market closely, that I might go more slowly should there be
                        signs of a dangerous breakfor no more than Langdon did I want a sudden
                        panicky slump. The price held steady, however; but I, fool that I was,
                        certain the fall must come, plunged on, digging the pit for my own
                        destruction deeper and deeper.
                
                
                
                    X
                    TWO "PILLARS OF SOCIETY"
                    I was neither seeing nor hearing from the Ellerslys, father or son; but, as I
                        knew why, I was not disquieted. I had made them temporarily easy in their
                        finances just before that dinner, and they, being fatuous, incurable
                        optimists, were probably imagining they would never need me again. I did not
                        disturb them until Monson and I had got my education so well under way that
                        even I, always severe in self-criticism and now merciless, was compelled to
                        admit to myself a distinct change for the better. You know how it is with a
                        boy at the "growing age"how he bursts out of clothes and ideas of life
                        almost as fast as they are supplied him, so swiftly is he transforming into
                        a man. Well, I think it is much that way with us Americans all our lives; we
                        continue on and on at the growing age. And if one of us puts his or her mind
                        hard upon growth in some particular direction, you see almost  overnight a development fledged to the last
                        tail-feathers and tip of top-knot where there was nothing at all. What
                        miracles can be wrought by an open mind and a keen sense of the cumulative
                        power of the unwasted minute! All this apropos of a very trivial matter, you
                        may be thinking. But, be careful how you judge what is trivial and what
                        important in a universe built up of atoms.
                    HoweverWhen my education seemed far enough advanced, I sent for Sam. He,
                        after his footless fashion, didn't bother to acknowledge my note. His margin
                        account with me was at the moment straight; I turned to his father. I had my
                        cashier send him a formal, type-written letter signed Blacklock &
                        Co., informing him that his account was overdrawn and that we "would be
                        obliged if he would give the matter his immediate attention." The note must
                        have reached him the following morning; but he did not come until, after
                        waiting three days, "we" sent him a sharp demand for a check for the balance
                        due us.
                    A pleasing, aristocratic-looking figure he made as he entered my office, with
                        his air of the man whose hands have never known the stains of toil,  with his manner of having always received
                        deferential treatment. There was no pretense in my curt greeting, my tone of
                        "despatch your business, sir, and be gone"; for I was both busy and much
                        irritated against him. "I guess you want to see our cashier," said I, after
                        giving him a hasty, absent-minded hand-shake. "My boy out there will take
                        you to him."
                    The old do-nothing's face lost its confident, condescending expression. His
                        lip quivered, and I think there were tears in his bad, dim, gray-green eyes.
                        I suppose he thought his a profoundly pathetic case; no doubt he hadn't the
                        remotest conception what he really wasand no doubt, also, there are many who
                        would honestly take his view. As if the fact that he was born with all
                        possible advantages did not make him and his plight inexcusable. It passes
                        my comprehension why people of his sort, when suffering from the calamities
                        they have deliberately brought upon themselves by laziness and
                        self-indulgence and extravagance, should get a sympathy that is withheld
                        from those of the honest human rank and file falling into far more real
                        misfortunes not of their own making.
                    "No, my dear Blacklock," said he, cringing  now
                        as easily as he had condescendedhow to cringe and how to condescend are
                        taught at the same school, the one he had gone to all his life. "It is you I
                        want to talk with. And, first, I owe you my apologies. I know you'll make
                        allowances for one who was never trained to business methods. I've always
                        been like a child in those matters."
                    "You frighten me," said I. "The last 'gentleman' who came throwing me off my
                        guard with that plea was shrewd enough to get away with a very large sum of
                        my hard-earned money. Besides"and I was laughing, though not too
                        good-naturedly"I've noticed that you 'gentlemen' become vague about business
                        only when the balance is against you. When it's in your favor, you manage to
                        get your minds on business long enough to collect to the last fraction of a
                        cent."
                    He heartily echoed my laugh. "I only wish I were clever,"
                        said he. "However, I've come to ask your indulgence. I'd have been here
                        before, but those who owe me have been putting me off. And they're of the
                        sort of people whom it's impossible to press."
                    "I'd like to accommodate you further," said I, shedding that last little hint
                        as a cliff sheds  rain, "but your account has
                        been in an unsatisfactory state for nearly a month now."
                    "I'm sure you'll give me a few days longer," was his easy reply, as if we
                        were discussing a trifle. "By the way, you haven't been to see us yet. Only
                        this morning my wife was wondering when you'd come. You quite captivated
                        her, Blacklock. Can't you dine with us to-morrow nightno, Sundayat eight?
                        We're having in a few people I think you'd like to meet."
                    If any one imagines that this bald, businesslike way of putting it set my
                        teeth on edge, let him dismiss the idea; my nerves had been too long
                        accustomed to the feel of the harsh facts of life. It is evidence of the
                        shrewdness of the old fellow at character-reading that he wasted none of his
                        silk and velvet pretenses upon me, and so saved his time and mine. Probably
                        he wished me to see that I need have no timidity or false shame in dealing
                        with him, that when the time came to talk business I was free to talk it in
                        my own straight fashion.
                    "Glad to come," said I, wishing to be rid of him, now that my point was
                        gained. "We'll let the account stand open for the presentI rather think your
                        stocks are going up. Give my regards  tothe
                        ladies, please, especially to Miss Anita."
                    He winced, but thanked me graciously; gave me his soft, fine hand to shake
                        and departed, as eager to be off as I to be rid of him. "Sunday nextat
                        eight," were his last words. "Don't fail us"that in the tone of a king
                        addressing some obscure person whom he had commanded to court. It may be
                        that old Ellersly was wholly unconscious of his superciliousness, fancied he
                        was treating me as if I were almost an equal; but I suspect he rather
                        accentuated his natural manner, with the idea of impressing upon me that in
                        our deal he was giving at least as much as I.
                    I recall that I thought about him for several minutes after he was
                        gonephilosophized on the folly of a man's deliberately weaving a net to
                        entangle himself. As if any man was ever caught in any net not of his own
                        weaving and setting; as if I myself were not just then working at the last
                        row of meshes of a net in which I was to ensnare myself.
                    My petty and inevitable success with that helpless creature added amazingly,
                        ludicrously, to that dangerous elation which, as I can now see, had been
                        growing in me ever since the day Roebuck 
                        yielded so readily to my demands as to National Coal. The whole trouble with
                        me was that up to that time I had won all my victories by the plainest kind
                        of straightaway hard work. I was imagining myself victor in contests of wit
                        against wit, when, in fact, no one with any especial equipment of brains had
                        ever opposed me; all the really strong men had been helping me because they
                        found me useful. Too easy successthere is the clue to the wild folly of my
                        performances in those days, a folly that seems utterly inconsistent with the
                        reputation for shrewdness I had, and seemed to have earned.
                    I can find a certain small amount of legitimate excuse for my falling under
                        Langdon's spell. He had, and has, fascinations, through personal magnetism,
                        which it is hardly in human nature to resist. But for my self-hypnotism in
                        the case of Roebuck, I find no excuse whatever for myself.
                    He sent for me and told me what share in National Coal they had decided to
                        give me for my Manasquale mines. "Langdon and Melville," said he, "think me
                        too liberal; far too liberal, my boy. But I insistedin your case I felt we
                        could afford to be generous as well as  just."
                        All this with an air that was a combination of the pastor and the parent.
                    I can't even offer the excuse of not having seen that he was a hypocrite. I
                        felt his hypocrisy at once, and my first impulse was to jump for my
                        breastworks. But instantly my vanity got behind me, held me in the open,
                        pushed me on toward him. If you will notice, almost all "confidence" games
                        rely for success chiefly upon enlisting a man's vanity to play the traitor
                        to his judgment. So, instead of reading his liberality as plain proof of
                        intended treachery, I read it as plain proof of my own greatness, and of the
                        fear it had inspired in old Roebuck. Laugh with me if you
                        like; but, before you laugh at me, think carefullythose of
                        you who have ever put yourselves to the test on the field of actionthink
                        carefully whether you have never found that your head decoration which you
                        thought a crown was in reality the peaked and belled cap of the fool.
                    But my vanity was not done with me. Led on by it, I proceeded to have one of
                        those ridiculous "generous impulses"I persuaded myself that there must be
                        some decency in this liberality, in addition to the prudence which I
                        flattered myself was the chief cause. "I have been unjust  to Roebuck," I thought. "I have been
                        misjudging his character." And incredible though it seems, I said to him
                        with a good deal of genuine emotion: "I don't know how to thank you, Mr.
                        Roebuck. And, instead of trying, I want to apologize to you. I have thought
                        many hard things against you; have spoken some of them. I had better have
                        been attending to my own conscience, instead of criticizing yours."
                    I had often thought his face about the most repulsive, hypocrisy-glozed
                        concourse of evil passions that ever fronted a fiend in the flesh. It had
                        seemed to me the fitting result of a long career which, according to common
                        report, was stained with murder, with rapacity and heartless cruelty, with
                        the most brutal secret sensuality, and which had left in its wake the ruins
                        of lives and hearts and fortunes innumerable. I had looked on the vast
                        wealth he had heaped mountain high as a monument to devil-daringother men
                        had, no doubt, dreamed of doing the ferocious things he had done, but their
                        weak, human hearts failed when it came to executing such horrible acts, and
                        they had to be content with smaller fortunes, with the comparatively small
                        fruits of their comparatively small infamies. He had  dared all, had won; the most powerful bowed with quaking knees
                        before him, and trembled lest they might, by a blundering look or word,
                        excite his anger and cause him to snatch their possessions from them.
                    Thus I had regarded him, accepting the universal judgment, believing the
                        thousand and one stories. But as his eyes, softened by his hugely generous
                        act, beamed upon me now, I was amazed that I had so misjudged him. In that
                        face which I had thought frightful there was, to my hypnotized gaze, the
                        look of strong, sincereyes, holybeauty and powerthe look of an archangel.
                    "Thank you, Blacklock," said he, in a voice that made me feel as if I were a
                        little boy in the crossroads church, believing I could almost see the angels
                        floating above the heads of the singers in the choir behind the preacher.
                        "Thank you. I am not surprised that you have misjudged me. God has given me
                        a great work to do, and those who do His will in this wicked world must
                        expect martyrdom. I should never have had the courage to do what I have
                        done, what He has done through me, had He not guided my every step. You are
                        not a religious man?"
                    
                    "I try to do what's square," said I. "But I'd prefer not to talk about it."
                    "That's right! That's right!" he approved earnestly. "A man's religion is a
                        matter between himself and his God. But I hope, Matthew, you will never
                        forget that, unless you have daily, hourly communion with Almighty God, you
                        will never be able to bear the great burdens, to do the great work
                        fearlessly, disregarding the lies of the wicked, and, hardest of all to
                        endure, the honestly-mistaken judgments of honest men."
                    "I'll look into it," said I. And I don't know to what lengths of foolish
                        speech I should have gone had I not been saved by an office boy interrupting
                        with a card for him.
                    "Ah, here's Walters now," said he. Then to the boy: "Bring him in when I
                        ring."
                    I rose to go.
                    "No, sit down, Blacklock," he insisted. "You are in with us now, and you may
                        learn something by seeing how I deal with the larger problems that face men
                        in these large undertakings, the problems that have faced me in each new
                        enterprise I have inaugurated to the glory of God."
                    Naturally, I accepted with enthusiasm.
                    
                    You would not believe what a mood I had by this time been worked into by my
                        rampant and raging vanity and emotionalism and by his snakelike charming.
                        "Thank you," I said, with an energetic warmth that must have secretly amused
                        him mightily.
                    "When my reorganization of the iron industry proved such a great success, and
                        God rewarded my labors with large returns," he went on, "I looked about me
                        to see what new work He wished me to undertake, how He wished me to invest
                        His profits. And I saw the coal industry and the coal-carrying railroads in
                        confusion, with waste on every side, and godless competition. Thousands of
                        widows and orphans who had invested in coal railways and mines were getting
                        no returns. Labor was fitfully employed, owing to alternations of
                        over-production and no production at all. I saw my work ready for my hand.
                        And now we are bringing order out of chaos. This man Walters, useful up to a
                        certain point, has become insolent, corrupt, a stumbling-block in our way."
                        Here he pressed the button of his electric bell.
                
                
                
                    XI
                    WHEN A MAN IS NOT A MAN
                    Walters entered. He was one of the great railway presidents, was universally
                        regarded as a power, though I, of course, knew that he, like so many other
                        presidents of railways, of individual corporations, of banks, of insurance
                        companies, and high political officials in cities, states and the nation,
                        was little more than a figurehead put up and used by the inside financial
                        ring. As he shifted from leg to leg, holding his hat and trying to steady
                        his twitching upper lip, he looked as one of his smallest section-bosses
                        would have looked, if called up for a wigging.
                    Roebuck shook hands cordially with him, responded to his nervous glance at me
                        with: "Blacklock is practically in our directory." We all sat, then Roebuck
                        began in his kindliest tone:
                    "We have decided, Walters, that we must give your place to a stronger man.
                        Your gross receipts, outside of coal, have fallen rapidly and  steadily for the past three quarters. You
                        were put into the presidency to bring them up. They have shown no change
                        beyond what might have been expected in the natural fluctuations of freight.
                        We calculated on resuming dividends a year ago. We have barely been able to
                        meet the interest on our bonds."
                    "But, Mr. Roebuck," pleaded Walters, "you doubled the bonded indebtedness of
                        the road just before I took charge."
                    "The money went into improvements, into increasing your facilities, did it
                        not?" inquired Roebuck, his paw as soft as a playful tiger's.
                    "Part of it," said Walters. "But you remember the reorganizing syndicate got
                        five millions, and then the contracts for the new work had to be given to
                        construction companies in which directors of the road were silent partners.
                        Then they are interested in the supply companies from which I must buy. You
                        know what all that means, Mr. Roebuck."
                    "No doubt," said Roebuck, still smooth and soft. "But if there was waste, you
                        should have reported"
                    "To whom?" demanded Walters. "Every one of our directors, including yourself,
                        Mr.  Roebuck, is a stock-holdera large
                        stock-holderin one or more of those companies."
                    "Have you proof of this, Walters?" asked Roebuck, looking profoundly shocked.
                        "It's a very grave chargea criminal charge."
                    "Proof?" said Walters. "You know how that is. The real books of all big
                        companies are kept in the memories of the directorsand mighty treacherous
                        memories they are." This with a nervous laugh. "As for the holdings of
                        directors in construction and supply companiesmost of those holdings are in
                        other namesall of them are disguised where the connection is direct."
                    Roebuck shook his head sadly. "You admit, then, that you have allowed
                        millions of the road's money to be wasted, that you made no complaint, no
                        effort to stop the waste; and your only defense is that you suspect the directors of fraud. And you accuse them to excuse
                        yourselfaccuse them with no proof. Were you in any of those companies,
                        Walters?"
                    "No," he said, his eyes shifting.
                    Roebuck's face grew stern. "You bought two hundred thousand dollars of the
                        last issue of government bonds, they tell me, with your  two years' profits from the Western Railway Construction
                        Company."
                    "I bought no bonds," blustered Walters. "What money I have I made out of
                        speculating in the stock of my roadon legitimate inside information."
                    "Your uncle in Wilkesbarre, I meant," pursued Roebuck.
                    Walters reddened, looked straight at Roebuck without speaking.
                    "Do you still deny?" demanded Roebuck.
                    "I saw everybodyeverybodygrafting," said Walters boldly,
                        "and I thought I might as well take my share. It's part of the business."
                        Then he added cynically: "That's the way it is nowadays. The lower ones see
                        the higher ones raking off, and they rake off, toodown to conductors and
                        brakemen. We caught some track-walkers in a conspiracy to dispose of the
                        discarded ties and rails the other day." He laughed. "We jailed them."
                    "If you can show that any director has taken anything that did not belong to
                        him, if you can show that a single contract you let to a construction or a
                        supply companyexcept, of course, the contracts you let to yourselfof them I
                        know  nothing, suspect muchif you can show one
                        instance of these criminal doings, Mr. Walters, I shall back you up with all
                        my power in prosecution."
                    "Of course I can't show it," cried Walters. "If I tried, wouldn't they ruin
                        and disgrace me, perhaps send me to the penitentiary? Wasn't I the one that
                        passed on and signed their contracts? And wouldn't theywouldn't you, Mr.
                        Roebuckhave fired me if I had refused to sign?"
                    "Excuses, excuses, Walters," was Roebuck's answer, with a sad, disappointed
                        look, as if he had hoped Walters would make a brighter showing for himself.
                        "How many times have you yourself talked to me of this eternal excuse habit
                        of men who fail? And if I expended my limited brain-power in looking into
                        all the excuses and explanations, what energy or time would I have for
                        constructive work? All I can do is to select a man for a position and to
                        judge him by results. You were put in charge to produce dividends. You
                        haven't produced them. I'm sorry, and I venture to hope that things are not
                        so bad as you make out in your eagerness to excuse yourself. For the sake of
                        old times, Tom, I ignore your angry insinuations against me. I try to be  just, and to be just one must always be
                        impersonal."
                    "Well," said Walters with an air of desperation, "give me another year, Mr.
                        Roebuck, and I'll produce results all right. I'll break the agreements and
                        cut rates. I'll freeze out the branch roads and our minority stock-holders.
                        I'll keep the books so that all the expert accountants in New York couldn't
                        untangle them. I'll wink at and commit and order committed all the necessary
                        crimes. I don't know why I've been so squeamish, when there were so many
                        penitentiary offenses that I did consent to, and, for that matter, commit,
                        without a quiver. I thought I ought to draw the line somewhereand I drew it
                        at keeping my personal word and at keeping the books reasonably straight.
                        But I'll go the limit."
                    I'll never forget Roebuck's expression; it was perfect, simply perfecta great
                        and good man outraged beyond endurance, but a Christian still. "You have
                        made it impossible for me to temper justice with mercy, Walters," said he.
                        "If it were not for the long years of association, for the affection for you
                        which has grown up in me, I should hand you over to the fate you have
                        earned. You tell me you have been committing crimes in  my service. You tell me you will commit more and greater
                        crimes. I can scarcely believe my own ears."
                    Walters laughed scornfullythe reckless laugh of a man who suddenly sees that
                        he is cornered and must fight for his life. "Rot!" he jeered. "Rot! You
                        always have been a wonder at juggling with your conscience. But do you
                        expect me to believe you think yourself innocent because you do not yourself
                        execute the orders you issueorders that can be carried out only by
                        committing crimes?" Walters was now beside himself with rage. He gave the
                        reins to that high horse he had been riding ever since he was promoted to
                        the presidency of the great coal road. He began to lay on whip and spur. "Do
                        you think," he cried to Roebuck, "the blood of those five hundred men
                        drowned in the Pequot mine is not on your handsyour head? You, who ordered John Wilkinson to suppress the
                        competition the Pequot was giving you, ordered him in such a way that he
                        knew the alternative was his own ruin? He shot himselfyet he had as good an
                        excuse as you, for he, too, passed on the order until it got to the poor
                        firemanthat wretched fellow they sent to the penitentiary  for life? And as sure as there is a God in
                        Heaven, you will some day do a long, long sentence in whatever hell there
                        is, for letting that wretch rot in prisonyes, and for John Wilkinson's
                        suicide, and for the lives of those five hundred drowned. Your pensions to
                        the widows and orphans can't save you."
                    I listened to this tirade astounded. Used as I was to men losing their heads
                        through vanity, I could not credit my own ears and eyes when they reported
                        to me this insane exhibition. I looked at Roebuck. He was wearing an
                        expression of beatific patience; he would have made a fine study for a
                        picture of the martyr at the stake.
                    "I forgive you, Tom," he said, when Walters stopped for breath. "Your own
                        sinful heart makes you see the black of sin upon everything. I had heard
                        that you were going about making loud boasts of your power over your
                        employers, but I tried not to believe it. I see now that you have, indeed,
                        lost your senses. Your prosperity has been too much for your good sense." He
                        sighed mournfully. "I shall not interfere to prevent your getting a position
                        elsewhere," he continued. "But after what you have confessed, after your
                        slanders, how can I put you back in  your old
                        place out West, as I intended? How can I continue the interest in you and
                        care for your career that I have had, in spite of all your shortcomings? I
                        who raised you up from a clerk."
                    "Raised me up as you fellows always raise men upbecause you find them clever
                        at doing your dirty work. I was a decent, honest fellow when you first took
                        notice of me and tempted me. But, by God, Mr. Roebuck, if I've sold out
                        beyond hope of living decent again, I'll have my priceto the last cent.
                        You've got to leave me where I am or give me a place and salary equally as
                        good." This Walters said blusteringly, but beneath I could detect the
                        beginnings of a whine.
                    "You are angry, Tom," said Roebuck soothingly. "I have hurt your vanityit is
                        one of the heaviest crosses I have to bear, that I must be continually
                        hurting the vanity of men. Go away andand calm down. Think the situation
                        over coolly; then come and apologize to me, and I will do what I can to help
                        you. As for your threatswhen you are calm, you will see how idle they are."
                    Walters gave a sort of groan; and though I, blinded by my prejudices in favor
                        of Roebuck  and of the crowd with whom my
                        interests lay, had been feeling that he was an impudent and crazy ingrate, I
                        pitied him.
                    "What proofs have I got?" he said desperately. "If I show up the things I
                        know about, I show up myself, and everybody will say I'm lying about you and
                        the others in the effort to save myself. The newspapers would denounce me as
                        a treacherous liaryou fellows own or control or foozle them in one way and
                        another. And if I was believed, who'd prosecute you and what court'd condemn
                        you? Don't you own both political parties and make all the tickets, and
                        can't you ruin any office-holders who lifted a finger against you? What a
                        hell of a state of affairs!"
                    A swifter or a weaker descent I never witnessed. My pity changed to contempt.
                        "This fellow, with his great reputation," thought I, "is a fool and a knave,
                        and a weak one at that."
                    "Go away now, Tom," said Roebuck. "When you're master of yourself again, come
                        to see me."
                    "Master of myself!" cried Walters bitterly. "Who that's got anything to lose
                        is master of himself in this country?" With shoulders sagging and a sort of
                        stumble in his gait, he went 
                        
                            "I'LL HAVE MY PRICETO THE LAST CENT" Page 121
                            
                        
                        
                         toward the door. He paused there to say:
                        "I've served too long, Mr. Roebuck. There's no fight in me. I thought there
                        was, but there ain't. Do the best you can for me." And he took himself out
                        of our sight.
                    You will wonder how I was ever able to blind myself to the reality of this
                        frightful scene. But please remember that in this world every thought and
                        every act is a mixture of the good and the bad; and the one or the other
                        shows the more prominently according to one's point of view. There probably
                        isn't a criminal in any cell, anywhere, no matter what he may say in
                        sniveling pretense in the hope of lighter sentence, who doesn't at the
                        bottom of his heart believe his crime or crimes somehow justifiableand who
                        couldn't make out a plausible case for himself.
                    At that time I was stuffed with the arrogance of my fancied membership in the
                        caste of directing financial geniuses; I was looking at everything from the
                        viewpoint of the brotherhood of which Roebuck was the strongest brother, and
                        of which I imagined myself a full and equal member. I did not, I could not,
                        blind myself to the vivid reminders of his relentlessness; but I knew too
                        well how necessary the iron hand and the 
                        fixed purpose are to great affairs to judge him as infuriated Walters, with
                        his vanity savagely wounded, was judging him. I'd as soon have thought of
                        describing General Grant as a murderer, because he ordered the battles in
                        which men were killed or because he planned and led the campaigns in which
                        subordinates committed rapine and pillage and assassination. I did not then
                        see the radical differencedid not realize that while Grant's work was at the
                        command of patriotism and necessity, there was no necessity whatever for
                        Roebuck's getting rich but the command of his own greedy and cruel
                        appetites.
                    Don't misunderstand me. My morals are practical, not theoretical. Men must
                        die, old customs embodied in law must be broken, the venal must be bribed
                        and the weak cowed and compelled, in order that civilization may advance.
                        You can't establish a railway or a great industrial system by rose-water
                        morality. But I shall show, before I finish, that Roebuck and his gang of
                        socalled "organizers of industry" bear about the same relation to industry
                        that the boll weevil bears to the cotton crop.
                    I'll withdraw this, if any one can show me that, as the result of the
                        activities of those parasites,  anybody
                        anywhere is using or is able to use a single pound or bushel or yard more of
                        any commodity whatsoever. I'll withdraw it, if I can not show that but for
                        those parasites, bearing precisely the same relation to our society that the
                        kings and nobles and priests bore to France before the Revolution, everybody
                        except them would have more goods and more money than they have under the
                        system that enables these parasites to overshadow the highways of commerce
                        with their strongholds and to clog them with their tollgates. They know
                        little about producing, about manufacturing, about distributing, about any
                        process of industry. Their skill is in temptation, in trickery and in
                        terror.
                    On that day, however, I sidedhonestly, as I thoughtwith Roebuck. What I saw
                        and heard increased my admiration of the man, my already profound respect
                        for his master mind. And when, just after Walters went out, he leaned back
                        in his chair and sat silent with closed eyes and moving lips, Iyes, I, Matt
                        Blacklock, "Black Matt," as they call mewas awed in the presence of this
                        great and good man at prayer!
                    How he and that God of his must have laughed at me! So infatuated was I that,
                        clear as it is  that he'd never have let me be
                        present at such a scene without a strong ulterior motive, not until he
                        himself long afterward made it impossible for me to deceive myself did I
                        penetrate to his real purposethat he wished to fill me with a prudent dread
                        and fear of him, with a sense of the absoluteness of his power and of the
                        hopelessness of trying to combat it. But at the time I thoughtimbecile that
                        my vanity had made meat the time I thought he had let me be present because
                        he genuinely liked, admired and trusted me!
                    Is it not amazing that one who could fall into such colossal blunders should
                        survive to tell of them? I would not have survived had not Roebuck and his
                        crowd been at the same time making an even more colossal misestimate of me
                        than I was making of them. My attack of vanity was violent, but temporary;
                        theirs was equally violent, and chronic and incurable to boot.
                
                
                
                    XII
                    ANITA
                    On my first day in long trousers I may have been more ill at ease than I was
                        that Sunday evening at the Ellerslys'; but I doubt it.
                    When I came into their big drawing-room and took a look round at the
                        assembled guests, I never felt more at home in my life. "Yes," said I to
                        myself, as Mrs. Ellersly was greeting me and as I noted the friendly
                        interest in the glances of the women, "this is where I belong. I'm beginning
                        to come into my own."
                    As I look back on it now, I can't refrain from smiling at my own
                        simplicityand snobbishness. For, so determined was I to believe what I was
                        working for was worth while, that I actually fancied there were upon these
                        in reality ordinary people, ordinary in looks, ordinary in intelligence,
                        some subtle marks of superiority, that made them at a glance superior to the
                        common run. This ecstasy of snobbishness deluded me  as to the women onlyfor, as I looked at the men, I at once
                        felt myself their superior. They were an inconsequential, patterned lot. I
                        even was better dressed than any of them, except possibly Mowbray Langdon;
                        and, if he showed to more advantage than I, it was because of his manner,
                        which, as I have probably said before, is superior to that of any human
                        being I've ever seenman or woman.
                    "You are to take Anita in," said Mrs. Ellersly. With a laughable sense that I
                        was doing myself proud, I crossed the room easily and took my stand in front
                        of her. She shook hands with me politely enough. Langdon was sitting beside
                        her; I had interrupted their conversation.
                    "Hello, Blacklock!" said Langdon, with a quizzical, satirical smile with the
                        eyes only. "It seems strange to see you at such peaceful pursuits." His
                        glance traveled over me criticallyand that was the beginning of my trouble.
                        Presently, he rose, left me alone with her.
                    "You know Mr. Langdon?" she said, obviously because she felt she must say
                        something.
                    "Oh, yes," I replied. "We are old friends. What a tremendous swell he
                        isreally a swell." This with enthusiasm.
                    
                    She made no comment. I debated with myself whether to go on talking of
                        Langdon. I decided against it because all I knew of him had to do with
                        matters down townand Monson had impressed it upon me that down town was
                        taboo in the drawing-room. I rummaged my brain in vain for another and
                        suitable topic.
                    She sat, and I stoodshe tranquil and beautiful and cold, I every instant more
                        miserably self-conscious. When the start for the dining-room was made I
                        offered her my left arm, though I had carefully planned beforehand just what
                        I would do. Shewithout hesitation and, as I know now, out of sympathy for me
                        in my sufferingwas taking my wrong arm, when it flashed on me like a
                        blinding blow in the face that I ought to be on the other side of her. I got
                        red, tripped in the far-sprawling train of Mrs. Langdon, tore it slightly,
                        tried to get to the other side of Miss Ellersly by walking in front of her,
                        recovered myself somehow, stumbled round behind her, walked on her train and
                        finally arrived at her left side, conscious in every red-hot atom of me that
                        I was making a spectacle of myself and that the whole company was enjoying
                        it. I must have seemed to them an ignorant boor; in fact, I had  been about a great deal among people who knew
                        how to behave, and had I never given the matter of how to conduct myself on
                        that particular occasion an instant's thought, I should have got on without
                        the least trouble.
                    It was with a sigh of profound relief that I sank upon the chair between Miss
                        Ellersly and Mrs. Langdon, safe from danger of making "breaks," so I hoped,
                        for the rest of the evening. But within a very few minutes I realized that
                        my little misadventure had unnerved me. My hands were trembling so that I
                        could scarcely lift the soup spoon to my lips, and my throat had got so far
                        beyond control that I had difficulty in swallowing. Miss Ellersly and Mrs.
                        Langdon were each busy with the man on the other side of her; I was left to
                        my own reflections, and I was not sure whether this made me more or less
                        uncomfortable. To add to my torment, I grew angry, furiously angry, with
                        myself. I looked up and down and across the big table, noted all these
                        self-satisfied people perfectly at their ease; and I said to myself: "What's
                        the matter with you, Matt? They're only men and women, and by no means the
                        best specimens of the breed. You've got more brains than all of 'em put
                        together,  probably; is there one of the lot
                        that could get a job at good wages if thrown on the world? What do you care
                        what they think of you? It's a damn sight more important what you think of
                        them; as it won't be many years before you'll hold everything they value,
                        everything that makes them of consequence, in the hollow of your hand."
                    But it was of no use. When Miss Ellersly finally turned her face toward me to
                        indicate that she would be graciously pleased to listen if I had anything to
                        communicate, I felt as if I were slowly wilting, felt my throat contracting
                        into a dry twist. What was the matter with me? Partly, of course, my own
                        snobbishness, which led me to attach the same importance to those people
                        that the snobbishness of the small and silly had got them in the way of
                        attaching to themselves. But the chief cause of my inability was Monson and
                        his lessons. I had thought I was estimating at its proper value what he was
                        teaching. But so earnest and serious am I by nature, and so earnest and
                        serious was he about those trivialities that he had been brought up to
                        regard as the whole of life, that I had unconsciously absorbed his attitude;
                        I was like a fellow  low who, after cramming
                        hard for an examination, finds that all the questions put to him are on
                        things he hasn't looked at. I had been making an ass of myself, and that
                        evening I got the first instalment of my sound and just punishment. I who
                        had prided myself on being ready for anything or anybody, I who had laughed
                        contemptuously when I read how men and women, presented at European courts,
                        made fools of themselvesI was made ridiculous by these people who, as I well
                        know, had nothing to back their pretensions to superiority but a barefaced
                        bluff.
                    Perhaps, had I thought this out at the table, I should have got back to
                        myself and my normal ease; but I didn't, and that long and terrible dinner
                        was one long and terrible agony of stage fright. When the ladies withdrew,
                        the other men drew together, talking of people I did not know and of things
                        I did not care aboutI thought then that they were avoiding me deliberately
                        as a flock of tame ducks avoids a wild one that some wind has accidentally
                        blown down among them. I know now that my forbidding aspect must have been
                        responsible for my isolation. However, I sat alone, sullenly resisting  old Ellersly's constrained efforts to get me
                        into the conversation, and angrily suspicious that Langdon was enjoying my
                        discomfiture more than the cigarette he was apparently absorbed in.
                    Old Ellersly, growing more and more nervous before my dark and sullen look,
                        finally seated himself beside me. "I hope you'll stay after the others have
                        gone," said he. "They'll leave early, and we can have a quiet smoke and
                        talk."
                    All unstrung though I was, I yet had the desperate courage to resolve that
                        I'd not leave, defeated in the eyes of the one person whose opinion I really
                        cared about. "Very well," said I, in reply to him.
                    He and I did not follow the others to the drawing-room, but turned into the
                        library adjoining. From where I seated myself I could see part of the
                        drawing-roomsaw the others leaving, saw Langdon lingering, ignoring the
                        impatient glances of his wife, while he talked on and on with Miss Ellersly.
                        Her face was full toward me; she was not aware that I was looking at her, I
                        am sure, for she did not once lift her eyes. As I sat studying her,
                        everything else was crowded out of my mind. She was indeed wonderfultoo
                        wonderful and fine and fragile, it seemed to 
                        me at that moment, for one so plain and rough as I. "Incredible," thought I,
                        "that she is the child of such a pair as Ellersly and his wifebut again, has
                        she any less in common with them than she'd have with any other pair of
                        human creatures?" Her slender white arms, her slender white shoulders, the
                        bloom on her skin, the graceful, careless way her hair grew round her
                        forehead and at the nape of her neck, the rather haughty expression of her
                        small face softened into sweetness and even tenderness, now that she was
                        talking at her ease with one whom she regarded as of her own kind"but he
                        isn't!" I protested to myself. "Langdonnone of these mennone of these women,
                        is fit to associate with her. They can't appreciate her. She belongs to me
                        who can." And I had a mad impulse then and there to seize her and bear her
                        awayhometo the home she could make for me out of what I would shower upon
                        her.
                    At last Langdon rose. It irritated me to see her color under that indifferent
                        fascinating smile of his. It irritated me to note that he held her hand all
                        the time he was saying good-by, and the fact that he held it as if he'd as
                        lief not be holding it hardly lessened my longing to rush in  and knock him down. What he did was all in
                        the way of perfect good manners, and would have jarred no one not
                        supersensitive, like meand like his wife. I saw that she, too, was frowning.
                        She looked beautiful that evening, in spite of her too great breadth for her
                        heighther stoutness was not altogether a defect when she was wearing evening
                        dress. While she seemed friendly and smiling to Miss Ellersly, I saw,
                        whether others saw it or not, that she quivered with apprehension at his
                        mildly flirtatious ways. He acted toward any and every attractive woman as
                        if he were free and were regarding her as a possibility, and didn't mind if
                        she flattered herself that he regarded her as a probability.
                    In an aimless sort of way Miss Ellersly, after the Langdons had disappeared,
                        left the drawing-room by the same door. Still aimlessly wandering, she
                        drifted into the library by the hall door. As I rose, she lifted her eyes,
                        saw me, and drove away the frown of annoyance which came over her face like
                        the faintest haze. In fact, it may have existed only in my imagination. She
                        opened a large, square silver box on the table, took out a cigarette,
                        lighted it and holding  it, with the smoke
                        lazily curling up from it, between the long slender first and second fingers
                        of her white hand, stood idly turning the leaves of a magazine. I threw my
                        cigar into the fireplace. The slight sound as it struck made her jump, and I
                        saw that, underneath her surface of perfect calm, she was in a nervous state
                        full as tense as my own.
                    "You smoke?" said I.
                    "Sometimes," she replied. "It is soothing and distracting. I don't know how
                        it is with others, but when I smoke, my mind is quite empty."
                    "It's a nasty habitsmoking," said I.
                    "Do you think so?" said she, with the slightest lift to her tone and her
                        eyebrows.
                    "Especially for a woman," I went on, because I could think of nothing else to
                        say, and would not, at any cost, let this conversation, so hard to begin,
                        die out.
                    "You are one of those men who have one code for themselves and another for
                        women," she replied.
                    "I'm a man," said I. "All men have the two codes."
                    "Not all," said she after a pause.
                    
                    "All men of decent ideas," said I with emphasis.
                    "Really?" said she, in a tone that irritated me by suggesting that what I
                        said was both absurd and unimportant.
                    "It is the first time I've ever seen a respectable woman smoke," I went on,
                        powerless to change the subject, though conscious I was getting tedious.
                        "I've read of such things, but I didn't believe."
                    "That is interesting," said she, her tone suggesting the reverse.
                    "I've offended you by saying frankly what I think," said I. "Of course, it's
                        none of my business."
                    "Oh, no," replied she carelessly. "I'm not in the least offended. Prejudices
                        always interest me."
                    I saw Ellersly and his wife sitting in the drawing-room, pretending to talk
                        to each other. I understood that they were leaving me alone with her
                        deliberately, and I began to suspect she was in the plot. I smiled, and my
                        courage and self-possession returned as summarily as they had fled.
                    "I'm glad of this chance to get better acquainted  quainted with you," said I. "I've wanted it ever since I first
                        saw you."
                    As I put this to her directly, she dropped her eyes and murmured something
                        she probably wished me to think vaguely pleasant.
                    "You are the first woman I ever knew," I went on, "with whom it was hard for
                        me to get on any sort of terms. I suppose it's my fault. I don't know this
                        game yet. But I'll learn it, if you'll be a little patient; and when I do, I
                        think I'll be able to keep up my end."
                    She looked at mejust looked. I couldn't begin to guess what was going on in
                        that gracefully-poised head of hers.
                    "Will you try to be friends with me?" said I with directness.
                    She continued to look at me in that same steady, puzzling way.
                    "Will you?" I repeated.
                    "I have no choice," said she slowly.
                    I flushed. "What does that mean?" I demanded.
                    She threw a hurried and, it seemed to me, frightened glance toward the
                        drawing-room. "I didn't intend to offend you," she said in a low voice. "You
                        have been such a good friend  to papaI've no
                        right to feel anything but friendship for you."
                    "I'm glad to hear you say that," said I. And I was; for those words of hers
                        were the first expression of appreciation and gratitude I had ever got from
                        any member of that family which I was holding up from ruin. I put out my
                        hand, and she laid hers in it.
                    "There isn't anything I wouldn't do to earn your friendship, Miss Anita," I
                        said, holding her hand tightly, feeling how lifeless it was, yet feeling,
                        too, as if a flaming torch were being borne through me, were lighting a fire
                        in every vein.
                    The scarlet poured into her face and neck, wave on wave, until I thought it
                        would never cease to come. She snatched her hand away and from her face
                        streamed proud resentment. God, how I loved her at that moment!
                    "Anita! Mr. Blacklock!" came from the other room, in her mother's voice.
                        "Come in here and save us old people from boring each other to sleep."
                    She turned swiftly and went into the other room, I following. There were a
                        few minutes of conversationa monologue by her mother. Then I ceased to
                        disregard Ellersly's less and less  covert
                        yawns, and rose to take leave. I could not look directly at Anita, but I was
                        seeing that her eyes were fixed on me, as if by some compulsion, some
                        sinister compulsion. I left in high spirits. "No matter why or how she looks
                        at you," said I to myself. "All that is necessary is to get yourself
                        noticed. After that, the rest is easy. You must keep cool enough always to
                        remember that under this glamour that intoxicates you, she's a woman, just a
                        woman, waiting for a man."
                
                
                
                    XIII
                    "UNTIL TO-MORROW"
                    On the following Tuesday afternoon, toward five o'clock, I descended from my
                        apartment on my way to my brougham. In the entrance hall I met Monson coming
                        in.
                    "Hello, you!" said he. "Slipping away to get married?"
                    "No, I'm only making a call," replied I, taking alarm instantly.
                    "Oh, is that all?" said he with a sly grin. "It must be a
                        mighty serious matter."
                    "I'm in no hurry," said I. "Come up with me for a few minutes."
                    As soon as we were alone in my sitting-room, I demanded: "What's wrong with
                        me?"
                    "Nothingnot a thing," was his answer, in a tone I had a struggle with myself
                        not to resent. "I've never seen any one quite so grandtop hat, latest style,
                        long coat ditto, white buckskin waistcoat, twenty-thousand-dollar pearl in
                        pale  blue scarf, white spats, spotless
                        varnish boots just from the varnishers, cream-colored gloves. You will make a hit! My eye, I'll bet she won't be able to
                        resist you."
                    I began to shed my plumage. "I thought this was the thing when you're calling
                        on people you hardly know."
                    "I should say you'd have to know 'em uncommon well to give 'em such a treat.
                        Rather!"
                    "What shall I wear?" I asked. "You certainly told me the other day that this
                        was proper."
                    "Properso it istoo damn proper," was his answer. "That'd be all right for a
                        bridegroom or a best man or an usheror perhaps for a wedding guest. It
                        wouldn't do any particular harm even to call in it, if the people were used
                        to you. But"
                    "I look dressed up?"
                    "Like a fashion platelike a tailorlike a society actor."
                    "What shall I wear?"
                    "Oh, just throw yourself together any old way. Business suit's good enough."
                    "But I barely know these peoplesocially. I never called there," I objected.
                    "Then don't call," he advised. "Send your 
                        valet in a cab to leave a card at the door. Calling has gone clean outunless
                        a man's got something very especial in mind. Never show that you're eager.
                        Keep your hand hid."
                    "They'd know I had something especial in mind if I called?"
                    "Certainly, and if you'd gone in those togs, they'd have assumed you had come
                        toto ask the old man for his daughteror something like that."
                    I lost no time in getting back into a business suit.
                    A week passed and, just as I was within sight of my limit of patience,
                        Bromwell Ellersly appeared at my office. "I can't put my hand on the
                        necessary cash, Mr. Blacklockat least, not for a few days. Can I count on
                        your further indulgence?" This in his best exhibit of old-fashioned
                        courtlinessthe "gentleman" through and through, ignorant of anything useful.
                    "Don't let that matter worry you, Ellersly," said I, friendly, for I wanted
                        to be on a somewhat less business-like basis with that family. "The market's
                        steady, and will go up before it goes down,"
                    
                    "Good!" said he. "By the way, you haven't kept your promise to call."
                    "I'm a busy man," said I. "You must make my excuses to your wife. Butin the
                        evenings. Couldn't we get up a little theater-partyMrs. Ellersly and your
                        daughter and you and ISam, too, if he cares to come?"
                    "Delightful!" cried he.
                    "Whichever one of the next five evenings you say," I said. "Let me know by
                        to-morrow morning, will you?" And we talked no more of the neglected
                        margins; we understood each other. When he left he had negotiated a three
                        months' loan of twenty thousand dollars.
                    They were so surprised that they couldn't conceal it, when they were ushered
                        into my apartment on the Wednesday evening they had fixed upon. If my taste
                        in dress was somewhat too pronounced, my taste in my surroundings was not. I
                        suppose the same instinct that made me like the music and the pictures and
                        the books that were the products of superior minds had guided me right in
                        architecture, decoration and furniture. I know I am one of those who are
                        born with the instinct for the best. Once Monson  got in the way of free criticism, he indulged himself without
                        stint, after the customary human fashion; in fact, so free did he become
                        that had I not feared to frighten him and so bring about the defeat of my
                        purposes, I should have sat on him hard very soon after we made our bargain.
                        As it was, I stood his worst impudences without flinching, and partly
                        consoled myself with the amusement I got out of watching his vanity lead him
                        on into thinking his knowledge the most vital matter in the worldjust as you
                        sometimes see a waiter or a clerk with the air of sharing the care of the
                        universe with the Almighty.
                    But even Monson could find nothing to criticize either in my apartment or in
                        my country house. And, by the way, he showed his limitations by remarking,
                        after he had inspected: "I must say, Blacklock, your architects and
                        decorators have done well by you." As if a man's surroundings were not the
                        unfailing index to himself, no matter how much money he spends or how good
                        architects and the like he hires. As if a man could ever buy good taste.
                    I was pleased out of all proportion to its value by what Ellersly and his
                        wife looked and said.  But, though I watched
                        Miss Ellersly closely, though I tried to draw from her some comment on my
                        belongingson my pictures, on my superb tapestries, on the beautiful carving
                        of my furnitureI got nothing from her beyond that first look of surprise and
                        pleasure. Her face resumed its statuelike calm, her eyes did not wander; her
                        lips, like a crimson bow painted upon her clear, white skin, remained
                        closed. She spoke only when she was spoken to, and then as briefly as
                        possible. The dinnerand a mighty good dinner it waswould have been memorable
                        for strain and silence had not Mrs. Ellersly kept up her incessant chatter.
                        I can't recall a word she said, but I admired her for being able to talk at
                        all. I knew she was in the same state as the rest of us, yet she acted
                        perfectly at her ease; and not until I thought it over afterward did I
                        realize that she had done all the talking, except answers to her occasional
                        and cleverly-sprinkled direct questions.
                    Ellersly sat opposite me, and I was irritated, and thrown into confusion,
                        too, every time I lifted my eyes, by the crushed, criminal expression of his
                        face. He ate and drank hugelyand extremely bad manners it would have been
                             regarded in me had I made as much noise
                        as he, or lifted such quantities at a time into my mouth. But through his
                        noisy gluttony he managed somehow to maintain that hang-dog airlike a thief
                        who has gone through the house and, on his way out, has paused at the
                        pantry, with the sack of plunder beside him, to gorge himself.
                    I looked at Anita several times, each time with a carefully-framed remark
                        ready; each time I found her gaze on meand I could say nothing, could only
                        look away in a sort of panic. Her eyes were strangely variable. I have seen
                        them of a gray, so pale that it was almost silverlike the steely light of
                        the snow-line at the edge of the horizon; again, and they were so that
                        evening, they shone with the deepest, softest blue, and made one think, as
                        one looked at her, of a fresh violet frozen in a block of clear ice.
                    I sat behind her in the box at the theater. During the first and second
                        intermissions several men dropped in to speak to her mother and herfellows
                        who didn't ever come down town, but I could tell they knew who I was by the
                        way they ignored me. It exasperated me to a pitch of fury, that coldly
                        insolent air of theirsa jerky  nod at me
                        without so much as a glance, and no notice of me when they were leaving my box beyond a faint, supercilious smile as they passed
                        with eyes straight ahead. I knew what it meant, what they were thinkingthat
                        the "Bucket-Shop King," as the newspapers had dubbed me, was trying to use
                        old Ellersly's necessities as a "jimmy" and "break into society." When the
                        curtain went down for the last intermission, two young men appeared; I did
                        not get up as I had before, but stuck to my seatI had reached that point at
                        which courtesy has become cowardice.
                    They craned and strained at her round me and over me, presently gave up and
                        retired, disguising their anger as contempt for the bad manners of a
                        bounder. But that disturbed me not a ripple, the more as I was delighting in
                        a consoling discovery. Listening and watching as she talked with these young
                        men, whom she evidently knew well, I noted that she was distant and only
                        politely friendly in manner habitually, that while the ice might thicken for
                        me, it was there always. I knew enough about women to know that, if the
                        woman who can thaw only for one man is the most difficult, she is also the
                        most constant.  "Once she thaws toward me!" I
                        said to myself.
                    When the young men had gone, I leaned forward until my head was close to
                        hers, to her hairfine, soft, abundant, electric hair. Like the infatuated
                        fool that I was, I tore out all the pigeon-holes of my brain in search of
                        something to say to her, something that would start her to thinking well of
                        me. She must have felt my breath upon her neck, for she moved away slightly,
                        and it seemed to me a shiver visibly passed over that wonderful white skin
                        of hers.
                    I drew back and involuntarily said, "Beg pardon." I glanced at her mother and
                        it was my turn to shudder. I can't hope to give an accurate impression of
                        that stony, mercenary, mean face. There are looks that paint upon the human
                        countenance the whole of a life, as a flash of lightning paints upon the
                        blackness of the night miles on miles of landscape. That look of Mrs.
                        Ellersly'sstern disapproval at her daughter, stern command that she be more
                        civil, that she unbendshowed me the old woman's soul. And I say that no old
                        harpy presiding over a dive is more full of the venom of the hideous
                        calculations of the market for flesh and blood  than is a woman whose life is wrapped up in wealth and show.
                    "If you wish it," I said, on impulse, to Miss Ellersly in a low voice, "I
                        shall never try to see you again."
                    I could feel rather than see the blood suddenly beating in her skin, and
                        there was in her voice a nervousness very like fright as she answered: "I'm
                        sure mama and I shall be glad to see you whenever you come."
                    "You?" I persisted.
                    "Yes," she said, after a brief hesitation.
                    "Glad?" I persisted.
                    She smiledthe faintest change in the perfect curve of her lips. "You are very
                        persistent, aren't you?"
                    "Very," I answered. "That is why I have always got whatever I wanted."
                    "I admire it," said she.
                    "No, you don't," I replied. "You think it is vulgar, and you think I am
                        vulgar because I have that qualitythat and some others."
                    She did not contradict me.
                    "Well, I am vulgarfrom your standpoint," I went on. "I have
                        purposes and passions. And I pursue them. For instance, you."
                    
                    "I?" she said tranquilly.
                    "You," I repeated. "I made up my mind the first day I saw you that I'd make
                        you like me. Andyou will."
                    "That is very flattering," said she. "And a little terrifying. For"she
                        faltered, then went bravely on"I suppose there isn't anything you'd stop at
                        in order to gain your end."
                    "Nothing," said I, and I compelled her to meet my gaze.
                    She drew a long breath, and I thought there was a sob in itlike a frightened
                        child.
                    "But I repeat," I went on, "that if you wish it, I shall never try to see you
                        again. Do you wish it?"
                    "Idon'tknow," she answered slowly. "I thinknot."
                    As she spoke the last word, she lifted her eyes to mine with a look of forced
                        friendliness in them that I'd rather not have seen there. I wished to be
                        blind to her defects, to the stains and smutches with which her surroundings
                        must have sullied her. And that friendly look seemed to me an unmistakable
                        hypocrisy in obedience to her mother. However, it had the effect of bringing
                        her nearer to my own earthy level, of putting 
                        me at ease with her; and for the few remaining minutes we talked freely, I
                        indifferent whether my manners and conversation were correct. As I helped
                        her into their carriage, I pressed her arm slightly, and said in a voice for
                        her only, "Until to-morrow."
                
                
                
                    XIV
                    FRESH AIR IN A GREENHOUSE
                    At five the next day I rang the Ellerslys' bell, was taken through the
                        drawing-room into that same library. The curtains over the double doorway
                        between the two rooms were almost drawn. She presently entered from the
                        hall. I admired the picture she made in the doorwayher big hat, her
                        embroidered dress of white cloth, and that small, sweet, cold face of hers.
                        And as I looked, I knew that nothing, nothingno, not even her wish, her
                        commandcould stop me from trying to make her my own. That resolve must have
                        shown in my faceit or the passion that inspired itfor she paused and paled.
                    "What is it?" I asked. "Are you afraid of me?"
                    She came forward proudly, a fine scorn in her eyes. "No," she said. "But if
                        you knew, you might be afraid of me."
                    "I am," I confessed. "I am afraid of you 
                        because you inspire in me a feeling that is beyond my control. I've
                        committed many follies in my lifeI have moods in which it amuses me to defy
                        fate. But those follies have always been of my own willing. You"I
                        laughed"you are a folly for me. But one that compels me."
                    She smilednot discouraginglyand seated herself on a tiny sofa in the corner,
                        a curiously impregnable intrenchment, as I notedfor my impulse was to carry
                        her by storm. I was astonished at my own audacity; I was wondering where my
                        fear of her had gone, my awe of her superior fineness and breeding. "Mama
                        will be down in a few minutes," she said.
                    "I didn't come to see your mother," replied I. "I came to see you."
                    She flushed, then frozeand I thought I had once more "got upon" her nerves
                        with my rude directness. How eagerly sensitive our nerves are to bad
                        impressions of one we don't like, and how coarsely insensible to bad
                        impressions of one we do like!
                    "I see I've offended again, as usual," said I. "You attach so much importance
                        to petty little dancing-master tricks and caperings. You live 
                        
                            SHE PRESENTLY ENTERED FROM THE HALL Page 153
                            
                        
                        
                         always have livedin an artificial atmosphere.
                        Real things act on you like fresh air on a hothouse flower."
                    "You arefresh air?" she inquired, with laughing sarcasm.
                    "I am that," retorted I. "And good for youas you'll find when you get used to
                        me."
                    I heard voices in the next roomher mother's and some man's. We waited until
                        it was evident we were not to be disturbed. As I realized that fact and
                        surmised its meaning, I looked triumphantly at her. She drew further back
                        into her corner, and the almost stern firmness of her contour told me she
                        had set her teeth.
                    "I see you are nerving yourself," said I with a laugh. "You are perfectly
                        certain I am going to propose to you."
                    She flamed scarlet and half-started up.
                    "Your motherin the next roomexpects it, too," I went on, laughing even more
                        disagreeably. "Your parents need moneythey have decided to sell you, their
                        only large income-producing asset. And I am willling to buy. What do you
                        say?"
                    I was blocking her way out of the room. She was standing, her breath coming
                        fast, her eyes  blazing. "You arefrightful!" she exclaimed in a low voice.
                    "Because I am frank, because I am honest? Because I want to put things on a
                        sound basis? I suppose, if I came lying and pretending, and let you lie and
                        pretend, and let your parents and Sam lie and pretend, you would find
                        mealmost tolerable. Well, I'm not that kind. When there's no especial reason
                        one way or the other, I'm willing to smirk and grimace and dodder and
                        drivel, like the rest of your friends, those ladies and gentlemen. But when
                        there's business to be transacted, I am business-like. Let's not begin with
                        your thinking you are deceiving me, and so hating me and despising me and
                        trying to keep up the deception. Let's begin right."
                    She was listening; she was no longer longing to fly from the room; she was
                        curious. I knew I had scored.
                    "In any event," I continued, "you would have married for money. You've been
                        brought up to it, like all these girls of your set. You'd be miserable
                        without luxury. If you had your choice between love without luxury and
                        luxury without love, it'd be as easy to foretell which you'd do as to
                        foretell how a starving poet would  choose
                        between a loaf of bread and a volume of poems. You may love love; but you
                        love lifeyour kind of lifebetter!"
                    She lowered her head. "It is true," she said. "It is low and vile, but it is
                        true."
                    "Your parents need money" I began.
                    She stopped me with a gesture. "Don't blame them," she pleaded. "I am more
                        guilty than they."
                    I was proud of her as she made that confession. "You have the making of a
                        real woman in you," said I. "I should have wanted you even if you hadn't.
                        But what I now see makes what I thought a folly of mine look more like
                        wisdom."
                    "I must warn you," she said, and now she was looking directly at me, "I shall
                        never love you."
                    "Never is a long time," replied I. "I'm old enough to be cynical about
                        prophecy."
                    "I shall never love you," she repeated. "For many reasons you wouldn't
                        understand. For one you will understand."
                    "I understand the 'many reasons' you say are beyond me," said I. "For, dear
                        young lady, under this coarse exterior I assure you there's  hidden a rather sharp outlook on human
                        natureandwell, nerves that respond to the faintest changes in you as do mine
                        can't be altogether without sensitiveness. What's the other reasonthe reason? That you think you love some one else?"
                    "Thank you for saying it for me," she replied.
                    You can't imagine how pleased I was at having earned her gratitude, even in
                        so little a matter. "I have thought of that," said I. "It is of no
                        consequence."
                    "But you don't understand," she pleaded earnestly.
                    "On the contrary, I understand perfectly," I assured her. "And the reason I
                        am not disturbed isyou are here, you are not with him."
                    She lowered her head so that I had no view of her face.
                    "You and he do not marry," I went on, "because you are both poor?"
                    "No," she replied.
                    "Because he does not care for you?"
                    "Nonot that," she said.
                    "Because you thought he hadn't enough for two?"
                    
                    A long pause, thenvery faintly: "Nonot that."
                    "Then it must be because he hasn't as much money as he'd like, and must find
                        a girl who'll bring himwhat he most wants."
                    She was silent.
                    "That is, while he loves you dearly, he loves money more. And he's willing to
                        see you go to another man, be the wife of another man, beeverything to
                        another man." I laughed. "I'll take my chance against love of that sort."
                    "You don't understand," she murmured. "You don't realizethere are many things
                        that mean nothing to you and that meanoh, so much to people brought up as we
                        are."
                    "Nonsense!" said I. "What do you mean by 'we'? Nature has been bringing us up
                        for a thousand thousand years. A few years of silly false training doesn't
                        undo her work. If you and he had cared for each other, you wouldn't be here,
                        apologizing for his selfish vanity."
                    "No matter about him," she cried impatiently, lifting her head haughtily.
                        "The point is, I love himand always shall. I warn you."
                    "And I take you at my own risk?"
                    Her look answered "Yes!"
                    
                    "Well,"and I took her hand"then, we are engaged."
                    Her whole body grew tense, and her hand chilled as it lay in mine.
                        "Don'tplease don't," I said gently. "I'm not so bad as all that. If you will
                        be as generous with me as I shall be with you, neither of us will ever
                        regret this."
                    There were tears on her cheeks as I slowly released her hand.
                    "I shall ask nothing of you that you are not ready freely to give," I said.
                    Impulsively she stood and put out her hand, and the eyes she lifted to mine
                        were shining and friendly. I caught her in my arms and kissed hernot once
                        but many times. And it was not until the chill of her ice-like face had
                        cooled me that I released her, drew back red and ashamed and stammering
                        apologies. But her impulse of friendliness had been killed; she once more,
                        as I saw only too plainly, felt for me that sense of repulsion, felt for
                        herself that sense of self-degradation.
                    "I can not marry you!" she muttered.
                    "You canand willand must," I cried, infuriated by her look.
                    
                    There was a long silence. I could easily guess what was being fought out in
                        her mind. At last she slowly drew herself up. "I can not refuse," she said,
                        and her eyes sparkled with defiance that had hate in it. "You have the power
                        to compel me. Use it, like the brute you refuse to let me forget that you
                        are." She looked so young, so beautiful, so angryand so tempting.
                    "So I shall!" I answered. "Children have to be taught what is good for them.
                        Call in your mother, and we'll tell her the news."
                    Instead, she went into the next room. I followed, saw Mrs. Ellersly seated at
                        the tea-table in the corner farthest from the library where her daughter and
                        I had been negotiating. She was reading a letter, holding her lorgnon up to
                        her painted eyes.
                    "Won't you give us tea, mother?" said Anita, on her surface not a trace of
                        the cyclone that must still have been raging in her.
                    "Congratulate me, Mrs. Ellersly," said I. "Your daughter has consented to
                        marry me."
                    Instead of speaking, Mrs. Ellersly began to cryreal tears. And for a moment I
                        thought there was a real heart inside of her somewhere. But when she spoke,
                        that delusion vanished.
                    
                    "You must forgive me, Mr. Blacklock," she said in her hard, smooth, politic
                        voice. "It is the shock of realizing I'm about to lose my daughter." And I
                        knew that her tears were from joy and reliefAnita had "come up to the
                        scratch;" the hideous menace of "genteel poverty" had been averted.
                    "Do give us tea, mama," said Anita. Her cold, sarcastic tone cut my nerves
                        and her mother's like a razor blade. I looked sharply at her, and wondered
                        whether I was not making a bargain vastly different from that my passion was
                        picturing.
                
                
                
                    XV
                    SOME STRANGE LAPSES OF A LOVER
                    But before there was time for me to get a distinct impression, that ugly
                        shape of cynicism had disappeared.
                    "It was a shadow I myself cast upon her," I assured myself; and once more she
                        seemed to me like a clear, calm lake of melted snow from the mountains. "I
                        can see to the pure white sand of the very bottom," thought I. Mystery there
                        was, but only the mystery of wonder at the apparition of such beauty and
                        purity in such a world as mine. True, from time to time, there showed at the
                        surface or vaguely outlined in the depths, forms strangely out of place in
                        those unsullied waters. But I either refused to see or refused to trust my
                        senses. I had a fixed ideal of what a woman should be; this girl embodied
                        that ideal.
                    "If you'd only give up your cigarettes," I remember saying to her when we
                        were a little better acquainted, "you'd be perfect."
                    
                    She made an impatient gesture. "Don't!" she commanded almost angrily. "You
                        make me feel like a hypocrite. You tempt me to be a hypocrite. Why not be
                        content with woman as she isa human being? Andhow could Iany woman not an
                        idiotbe alive for twenty-five years without learninga thing or two? Why
                        should any man want it?"
                    "Because to know is to be spattered and stained," said I. "I get enough of
                        people who know, down-town. Up-townI want a change of air. Of course, you
                        think you know the world, but you haven't the remotest conception of what
                        it's really like. Sometimes when I'm with you, I begin to feel mean andand
                        unclean. And the feeling grows on me until it's all I can do to restrain
                        myself from rushing away."
                    She looked at me critically.
                    "You've never had much to do with women, have you?" she finally said slowly
                        in a musing tone.
                    "I wish that were truealmost," replied I, on my mettle as a man, and
                        resisting not without effort the impulse to make some vague
                        "confessions"boastings disguised as penitential  admissionsafter the customary masculine fashion.
                    She smiledand one of those disquieting shapes seemed to me to be floating
                        lazily and repellently downward, out of sight. "A man and a woman can be a
                        great deal to each other, I believe," said she; "can bemarried, and all
                        thatand remain as strange to each other as if they had never metmore
                        hopelessly strangers."
                    "There's always a sort of mystery," I conceded. "I suppose that's one of the
                        things that keep married people interested."
                    She shrugged her shouldersshe was in evening dress, I recall, and there was
                        on her white skin that intense, transparent, bluish tinge one sees on the
                        new snow when the sun comes out.
                    "Mystery!" she said impatiently. "There's no mystery except what we ourselves
                        make. It's uselessperfectly useless," she went on absently. "You're the sort
                        of man who, if a woman cared for him, or even showed friendship for him by
                        being frank and human and natural with him, he'd punish her for it byby
                        despising her."
                    I smiled, much as one smiles at the efforts of 
                        a precocious child to prove that it is a Methuselah in experience.
                    "If you weren't like an angel in comparison with the others I've known," said
                        I, "do you suppose I could care for you as I do?"
                    I saw my remark irritated her, and I fancied it was her vanity that was
                        offended by my disbelief in her knowledge of life. I hadn't a suspicion that
                        I had hurt and alienated her by slamming in her very face the door of
                        friendship and frankness her honesty was forcing her to try to open for me.
                    In my stupidity of imagining her not human like the other women and the men I
                        had known, but a creature apart and in a class apart, I stood day after day
                        gaping at that very door, and wondering how I could open it, how penetrate
                        even to the courtyard of that vestal citadel. So long as my old-fashioned
                        belief that good women were more than human and bad women less than human
                        had influenced me only to a sharper lookout in dealing with the one species
                        of woman I then came in contact with, no harm to me resulted, but on the
                        contrary goodwhoever got into trouble through walking the world with sword
                        and sword arm free? But when,  under the spell
                        of Anita Ellersly, I dragged the "superhuman goodness" part of my theory
                        down out of the clouds and made it my guardian and guidereally, it's a
                        miracle that I escaped from the pit into which that lunacy pitched me
                        headlong. I was not content with idealizing only her; I went on to seeing
                        good, and only good, in everybody! The millennium was at hand; all Wall
                        Street was my friend; whatever I wanted would happen. And when Roebuck, with
                        an air like a benediction from a bishop backed by a cathedral organ and full
                        choir, gave me the tip to buy coal stocks, I canonized him on the spot.
                        Never did a Jersey "jay" in Sunday clothes and tallowed boots respond to a
                        bunco steerer's greeting with a gladder smile than mine to that pious old
                        past-master of craft.
                    I will say, in justice to myself, though it is also in excuse, that if I had
                        known him intimately a few years earlier, I should have found it all but
                        impossible to fool myself. For he had not long been in a position where he
                        could keep wholly detached from the crimes committed for his benefit and by
                        his order, and where he could disclaim responsibility and even knowledge.
                        The great lawyers of the country have been most ingenious  in developing corporate law in the direction
                        of making the corporation a complete and secure shield between the
                        beneficiary of a crime and its consequences; but before a great financier
                        can use this shield perfectly, he must build up a systemhe must find
                        lieutenants with the necessary coolness, courage and cunning; he must teach
                        them to understand his hints; he must educate them, not to point out to him
                        the disagreeable things involved in his orders, but to execute
                        unquestioningly, to efface completely the trail between him and them,
                        whether or not they succeed in covering the roundabout and faint trail
                        between themselves and the tools that nominally commit the crimes.
                    As nearly as I can get at it, when Roebuck was luring me into National Coal
                        he had not for nine years been open to attack, but had so far hedged himself
                        in that, had his closest lieutenants been trapped and frightened into
                        "squealing," he would not have been involved; without fear of exposure and
                        with a clear conscience he couldand would!have joined in the denunciation of
                        the man who had been caught, and couldand would!have helped send him to the
                        penitentiary or to the scaffold. With the security of an  honest man and the serenity of a Christian he
                        planned his colossal thefts and reaped their benefits; and whenever he was
                        accused, he could have explained everything, could have got his accuser's
                        sympathy and admiration. I say, could have explained; but he would not.
                        Early in his career, he had learned the first principle of successful
                        crimesilence. No matter what the provocation or the seeming advantage, he
                        uttered only a few generous general phrases, such as "those misguided men,"
                        or "the Master teaches us to bear with meekness the calumnies of the
                        wicked," or "let him that is without sin cast the first stone." As to the
                        crime itselfsilence, and the dividends.
                    A great man, Roebuck! I doff my hat to him. Of all the dealers in stolen
                        goods under police protection, who so shrewd as he?
                    Wilmot was the instrument he employed to put the coal industry into condition
                        for "reorganization." He bought control of one of the coal railroads and
                        made Wilmot president of it. Wilmot, taught by twenty years of his service,
                        knew what was expected of him, and proceeded to do it. He put in a "loyal"
                        general freight agent who also needed no instructions, but busied  himself at destroying his own and all the
                        other coal roads by a system of secret rebates and rate cuttings. As the
                        other roads, one by one, descended toward bankruptcy, Roebuck bought the
                        comparatively small blocks of stock necessary to give him control of them.
                        When he had power over enough of them to establish a partial monopoly of
                        transportation in and out of the coal districts, he was ready for his
                        lieutenant to attack the mining properties. Probably his orders to Wilmot
                        were nothing more definite or less innocent than: "Wilmot, my boy, don't you
                        think you and I and some others of our friends ought to buy some of those
                        mines, if they come on the market at a fair price? Let me know when you hear
                        of any attractive investments of that sort."
                    That would have been quite enough to "tip it off" to Wilmot that the time had
                        come for reaching out from control of railway to control of mine. He lost no
                        time; he easily forced one mining property after another into a position
                        where its owners were gladwere eagerto sell all or part of the wreck of it
                        "at a fair price" to him and Roebuck and "our friends." It was as the result
                        of one of these moves that the great Manasquale mines were so hemmed in by
                        ruinous  freight rates, by strike troubles, by
                        floods from broken machinery and mysteriously leaky dams, that I was able to
                        buy them "at a fair price"that is, at less than one-fifth their value. But
                        at the timeand for a long time afterwardI did not know, on my honor did not
                        suspect, what was the cause, the sole cause, of the change of the coal
                        region from a place of peaceful industry, content with fair profits, to an
                        industrial chaos with ruin impending.
                    Once the railways and mining companies were all on the verge of bankruptcy,
                        Roebuck and his "friends" were ready to buy, here control for purposes of
                        speculation, there ownership for purposes of permanent investment. This is
                        what is known as the reorganizing stage. The processes of high finance are
                        very simplefirst, buy the comparatively small holdings necessary to create
                        confusion and disaster; second, create confusion and disaster, buying up
                        more and more wreckage; third, reorganize; fourth, offer the new stocks and
                        bonds to the public with a mighty blare of trumpets which produces a boom
                        market; fifth, unload on the public, pass dividends, issue unfavorable
                        statements, depress prices, buy back cheap what you have sold dear. Repeat
                        ad  infinitum, for the law is for the laughter
                        of the strong, and the public is an eager ass. To keep up the fiction of
                        "respectability," the inside ring divides into two parties for its
                        campaignsone party to break down, the other to build up. One takes the
                        profits from destruction and departs, perhaps to construct elsewhere; the
                        other takes the profits from construction and departs, perhaps to destroy
                        elsewhere. As their collusion is merely tacit, no conscience need twitch. I
                        must add that, at the time of which I am writing, I did not realize the
                        existence of this conspiracy. I knew, of course, that many lawless and
                        savage things were done, that there were rascals among the high financiers,
                        and that almost all financiers now and then did things that were more or
                        less rascally; but I did not know, did not suspect, that high finance was
                        through and through brigandage, and that the high financier, by long and
                        unmolested practice of brigandage, had come to look on it as legitimate,
                        lawful business, and on laws forbidding or hampering it as outrageous,
                        socialistic, anarchistic, "attacks upon the social order!"
                    I was sufficiently infected with the spirit of the financier, I frankly
                        confess, to look on the  public as a sort of
                        cow to milk and send out to grass that it might get itself ready to be
                        driven in and milked again. Does not the cow produce milk not for her own
                        use but for the use of him who looks after her, provides her with pasturage
                        and shelter and saves her from the calamities in which her lack of foresight
                        and of other intelligence would involve her, were she not looked after? And
                        is not the fact that the publicbeg pardon, the cowmeekly and even cheerfully
                        submits to the milking proof that God intended her to be the servant of the
                        Roebucksbeg pardon again, of man?
                    Plausible, isn't it?
                    Roebuck had given me the impression that it would be six months, at least,
                        before what I was in those fatuous days thinking of as "our" plan for "putting the coal industry on a sound business basis"
                        would be ready for the public. So, when he sent for me shortly after I
                        became engaged to Miss Ellersly, and said: "Melville will publish the plan
                        on the first of next month and will open the subscription books on the
                        thirda Thursday," I was taken by surprise and was anything but pleased. His
                        words meant that, if I wished to make a great fortune, now was the  time to buy coal stocks, and buy heavilyfor
                        on the very day of the publication of the plan every coal stock would surely
                        soar. Buy I must; not to buy was to throw away a fortune. Yet how could I
                        buy when I was gambling in Textile up to my limit of safety, if not beyond?
                    I did not dare confess to Roebuck what I was doing in Textile. He was
                        bitterly opposed to stock gambling, denouncing it as both immoral and
                        unbusinesslike. No gambling for him! When his business sagacity and
                        foresight(?) informed him a certain stock was going to be worth a great deal
                        more than it was then quoted at, he would buy outright in large quantities;
                        when that same sagacity and foresight of the fellow who has himself marked
                        the cards warned him that a stock was about to fall, he sold out-right. But
                        gamblenever! And I felt that, if he should learn that I had staked a large
                        part of my entire fortune on a single gambling operation, he would
                        straightway cut me off from his confidence, would look on me as too deeply
                        tainted by my long career as a "bucket-shop" man to be worthy of full rank
                        and power as a financier. Financiers do not gamble. Their only vice is grand
                        larceny.
                    
                    All this was flashing through my mind while I was thanking him.
                    "I am glad to have such a long forewarning," I was saying. "Can I be of use
                        to you? You know my machinery is perfectI can buy anything and in any
                        quantity without starting rumors and drawing the crowd."
                    "No thank you, Matthew," was his answer. "I have all of those stocks I wishat
                        present."
                    Whether it is peculiar to me, I don't knowprobably notbut my memory is so
                        constituted that it takes an indelible and complete impression of whatever
                        is sent to it by my eyes and ears; and just as by looking closely you can
                        find in a photographic plate a hundred details that escape your glance, so
                        on those memory plates of mine I often find long afterward many and many a
                        detail that escaped me when my eyes and ears were taking the impression. On
                        my memory plate of that moment in my interview with Roebuck, I find details
                        so significant that my failing to note them at the time shows how unfit I
                        then was to guard my interests. For instance, I find that just before he
                        spoke those words declining my assistance and implying that he had already
                        increased  his holdings, he opened and closed
                        his hands several times, finally closed and clinched thema sure sign of
                        energetic nervous action, and in that particular instance a sign of
                        deception, because there was no energy in his remark and no reason for
                        energy. I am not superstitious, but I believe in palmistry to a certain
                        extent. Even more than the face are the hands a sensitive recorder of what
                        is passing in the mind.
                    But I was then too intent upon my dilemma carefully to study a man who had
                        already lulled me into absolute confidence in him. I left him as soon as he
                        would let me go. His last words were, "No gambling, Matthew! No abuse of the
                        opportunity God is giving us. Be content with the just profits from
                        investment. I have seen gamblers come and go, many of them able menvery able
                        men. But they have melted away, and where are they? And I have remained and
                        have increased, blessed be God who has saved me from the temptations to try
                        to reap where I had not sown! I feel that I can trust you. You began as a
                        speculator, but success has steadied you, and you have put yourself on the
                        firm ground where we see the solid men into whose hands God has given the
                        development of  the abounding resources of
                        this beloved country of ours."
                    Do you wonder that I went away with a heart full of shame for the gambling
                        projects my head was planning upon the information that good man had given
                        me?
                    I shut myself in my private office for several hours of hard thinkingas I can
                        now see, the first real attention I had given my business in two months. It
                        soon became clear enough that my Textile plunge was a folly; but it was too
                        late to retrace. The only question was, could and should I assume additional
                        burdens? I looked at the National Coal problem from every standpointso I
                        thought. And I could see no possible risk. Did not Roebuck's statement make
                        it certain as sunrise that, as soon as the reorganization was announced, all
                        coal stocks would rise? Yes, I should be risking nothing; I could with
                        absolute safety stake my credit; to make contracts to buy coal stocks at
                        present prices for future delivery was no more of a gamble than depositing
                        cash in the United States Treasury.
                    "You've gone back to gambling lately, Matt," said I to myself. "You've been
                        on a bender,  with your head afire. You must
                        get out of this Textile business as soon as possible. But it's good sound
                        sense to plunge on the coal stocks. In fact, your profits there would save
                        you if by some mischance Textile should rise instead of fall. Acting on
                        Roebuck's tip isn't gambling, it's insurance."
                    I emerged to issue orders that soon threw into the National Coal venture all
                        I had not staked on a falling market for Textiles. I was not contentas the
                        pious gambling-hater, Roebuck, had begged me to bewith buying only what
                        stock I could pay for; I went plunging on, contracting for many times the
                        amount I could have bought outright.
                    The next time I saw Langdon I was full of enthusiasm for Roebuck. I can see
                        his smile as he listened.
                    "I had no idea you were an expert on the trumpets of praise, Blacklock," said
                        he finally. "A very showy accomplishment," he added, "but rather dangerous,
                        don't you think? The player may become enchanted by his own music."
                    "I try to look on the bright side of things." said I, "even of human nature."
                    "Since when?" drawled he.
                    
                    I laugheda good, hearty laugh, for this shy reference to my affair of the
                        heart tickled me. I enjoyed to the full only in long retrospect the look he
                        gave me.
                    "As soon as a man falls in love," said he, "trustees should be appointed to
                        take charge of his estate."
                    "You're wrong there, old man," I replied. "I've never worked harder or with a
                        clearer head than since I learned that there are"I hesitated, and ended
                        lamely"other things in life."
                    Langdon's handsome face suddenly darkened, and I thought I saw in his eyes a
                        look of savage pain." I envy you," said he with an effort at his wonted
                        lightness and cynicism. But that look touched my heart; I talked no more of
                        my own happiness. To do so, I felt would be like bringing laughter into the
                        house of grief.
                
                
                
                    XVI
                    TRAPPED AND TRIMMED
                    There are two kinds of dangerous temptationsthose that tempt us, and those
                        that don't. Those that don't, give us a false notion of our resisting power,
                        and so make us easy victims to the others. I thought I knew myself pretty
                        thoroughly, and I believed there was nothing that could tempt me to neglect
                        my business. With this delusion of my strength firmly in mind, when Anita
                        became a temptation to neglect business, I said to myself: "To go up-town
                        during business hours for long lunches, to spend the mornings selecting
                        flowers and presents for herthese things look like neglect
                        of business, and would be so in some men. But I couldn't
                        neglect business. I do them because my affairs are so well ordered that a
                        few hours of absence now and then make no differenceprobably send me back
                        fresher and clearer."
                    When I left the office at half-past twelve on 
                        that fateful Wednesday in June, my business was never in better shape.
                        Textile Common had dropped a point and a quarter in two daysevidently it was
                        at last on its way slowly down toward where I could free myself and take
                        profits. As for the Coal enterprise nothing could possibly happen to disturb
                        it; I was all ready for the first of July announcement and boom. Never did I
                        have a lighter heart than when I joined Anita and her friends at Sherry's.
                        It seemed to me her friendliness was less perfunctory, less a matter of
                        appearances. And the sun was bright, the air delicious, my health perfect.
                        It took all the strength of all the straps Monson had put on my natural
                        spirits to keep me from being exuberant.
                    I had fully intended to be back at my office half an hour before the Exchange
                        closedthis in addition to the obvious precaution of leaving orders that they
                        were to telephone me if anything should occur about which they had the least
                        doubt. But so comfortable did my vanity make me that I forgot to look at my
                        watch until a quarter to three. I had a momentary qualm; then, reassured, I
                        asked Anita to take a walk with me. Before we set out I telephoned my
                        right-hand  man and partner, Ball. As I had
                        thought, everything was quiet; the Exchange was closing with Textile
                        sluggish and down a quarter. Anita and I took a car to the park.
                    As we strolled about there, it seemed to me I was making more headway with
                        her than in all the times I had seen her since we became engaged. At each
                        meeting I had to begin at the beginning once more, almost as if we had never
                        met; for I found that she had in the meanwhile taken on all, or almost all,
                        her original reserve. It was as if she forgot me the instant I left hernot
                        very flattering, that!
                    "You accuse me of refusing to get acquainted with you," said I, "of refusing
                        to see that you're a different person from what I imagine. But how about
                        you? Why do you still stick to your first notion of me? Whatever I am or am
                        not, I'm not the person you condemned on sight."
                    "You have changed," she conceded. "The way you dressand
                        sometimes the way you act. Or, is it because I'm getting used to you?"
                    "Noit's" I began, but stopped there. Some day I would confess about Monson,
                        but not yet. Also, I hoped the change wasn't altogether due to Monson and
                        the dancing-master  and my imitation of the
                        tricks of speech and manner of the people in her set.
                    She did not notice my abrupt halt. Indeed, I often caught her at not
                        listening to me. I saw that she wasn't listening now.
                    "You didn't hear what I said," I accused somewhat sharply, for I was
                        irritatedas who would not have been?
                    She started, gave me that hurried, apologetic look that was bitterer to me
                        than the most savage insult would have been.
                    "I beg your pardon," she said. "We were talking ofof changes, weren't we?"
                    "We were talking of me," I answered. "Of the subject that
                        interests you not at all."
                    She looked at me in a forlorn sort of way that softened my irritation with
                        sympathy. "I've told you how it is with me," she said. "I do my best to
                        please you. I"
                    "Damn your best!" I cried. "Don't try to please me. Be
                        yourself. I'm no slave-driver. I don't have to be conciliated. Can't you
                        ever see that I'm not your tyrant? Do I treat you as any other man would
                        feel he had the right to treat the girl who had engaged herself to him? Do I
                        ever thrust my feelings or wishesor  longings
                        on you? And do you think repression easy for a man of my temperament?"
                    "You have been very good," she said humbly.
                    "Don't you ever say that to me again," I half commanded, half pleaded. "I
                        won't have you always putting me in the position of a kind and indulgent
                        master."
                    She halted and faced me.
                    "Why do you want me, anyhow?" she cried. Then she noticed several loungers on
                        a bench staring at us and grinning; she flushed and walked on.
                    "I don't know," said I. "Because I'm a fool, probably. My common sense tells
                        me I can't hope to break through that shell of self-complacence you've been
                        cased in by your family and your associates. Sometimes I think I'm mistaken
                        in you, think there isn't any real, human blood left in your veins, that
                        you're like the rest of thema human body whose heart and mind have been
                        taken out and a machine substituteda machine that can say and do only a
                        narrow little range of conventional thingslike one of those French dolls."
                    "You mustn't blame me for that," she said gently. "I realize it, tooand I'm
                        ashamed  of it. Butif you could know how I've
                        been educated. They've treated me as the Flathead Indian women treat their
                        babieskeep their skulls in a pressisn't that it?until their heads and brains
                        grow of the Flathead pattern. Only, somehow, in my casethe process wasn't
                        quite complete. And so, instead of being contented like the other Flathead
                        girls, I'malmost a rebel, at times. I'm neither the one thing nor the
                        othernot natural and not Flathead, not enough natural to grow away from
                        Flathead, not enough Flathead to get rid of the natural."
                    "I take back what I said about not knowing why II want you, Anita," I said.
                        "I do know whyandwell, as I told you before, you'll never regret marrying
                        me."
                    "If you won't misunderstand me," she answered, "I'll confess to you my
                        instinct has been telling me that, too. I'm not so bad as you must think. I
                        did bargain to sell myself, but I'd have thrown up the bargain if you had
                        been asas you seemed at first." For some reasonperhaps it was her dress, or
                        hatshe was looking particularly girlish that day, and her skin was even more
                        transparent than usual. "You're different from the men I've been used to all
                        my  life," she went on, andsmiling in a
                        friendly way"you often give me a terrifying sense of your being aa wild man
                        on his good behavior. But I've come to feel that you're generous and
                        unselfish and that you'll be kind to mewon't you? And I must make a life for
                        myselfI mustI must! Oh, I can't explain to you, but" She turned her little
                        head toward me, and I was looking into those eyes that the flowers were
                        like.
                    I thought she meant her home life. "You needn't tell me," I said, and I'll
                        have to confess my voice was anything but steady. "And, I repeat, you'll
                        never regret!"
                    She evidently feared that she had said too much, for she lapsed into silence,
                        and when I tried to resume the subject of ourselves, she answered me with
                        painful constraint. I respected her nervousness and soon began to talk of
                        things not so personal to us. Again, my mistake of treating her as if she
                        were marked "Fragile. Handle with care." I know now that she, like all
                        women, had the plain, tough, durable human fibre under that exterior of
                        delicacy and fragility, and that my overconsideration caused her to
                        exaggerate to herself her own preposterous 
                        notions of her superior fineness. We walked for an hour, talking with less
                        constraint and more friendliness than ever before, and when I left her I,
                        for the first time, felt that I had left a good impression.
                    When I entered my offices, I, from force of habit, mechanically went direct
                        to the tickerand dropped all in an instant from the pinnacle of Heaven into
                        a boiling inferno. For the ticker was just spelling out these words:
                        "Mowbray Langdon, president of the Textile Association, sailed unexpectedly
                        on the Kaiser Wilhelm at noon. A two per cent, raise of
                        the dividend rate of Textile Common, from the present four per cent, to six,
                        has been determined upon."
                    And I had staked up to, perhaps beyond, my limit of safety that Textile would
                        fall!
                    Ball was watching narrowly for some sign that the news was as bad as he
                        feared. But it cost me no effort to keep my face expressionless; I was like
                        a man who has been killed by lightning and lies dead with the look on his
                        face that he had just before the bolt struck him.
                    "Why didn't you tell me this," said I to Ball, "when I had you on the
                        'phone?" My tone was quiet enough, but the very question ought to  have shown him that my brain was like a
                        schooner in a cyclone.
                    "We heard it just after you rang off," was his reply. "We've been trying to
                        get you ever since. I've gone everywhere after Textile stock. Very few will
                        sell, or even lend, and they askthe best price was ten points above to-day's
                        closing. A strong tip's out that Textiles are to be rocketed."
                    Ten points up alreadyon the mere rumor! Already ten dollars to pay on every
                        share I was "short"and I short more than two hundred thousand! I felt the
                        claws of the fiend Ruin sink into the flesh of my shoulders. "Ball doesn't
                        know how I'm fixed," I remember I thought, "and he mustn't know."
                    I lit a cigar with a steady hand and waited for Joe's next words.
                    "I went to see Jenkins at once," he went on. Jenkins was then first
                        vice-president of the Textile Trust. "He's all cut up because the news got
                        outsays Langdon and he were the only ones who knew, so he supposedsays the
                        announcement wasn't to have been made for a monthnot till Langdon returned.
                        He has had to confirm it, though. That was the only way to  free his crowd from suspicion of intending to
                        rig the market."
                    "All right," said I.
                    "Have you seen the afternoon paper?" he asked. As he held it out to me, my
                        eye caught big Textile head-lines, then flashed to some otherssomething
                        about my going to marry Miss Ellersly.
                    "All right," said I, and with the paper in my hand, went to my outside
                        office. I kept on toward my inner office, saying over my shoulderto the
                        stenographer: "Don't let anybody interrupt me." Behind the closed and locked
                        door my body ventured to come to life again and my face to reflect as much
                        as it could of the chaos that was heaving in me like ten thousand warring
                        devils.
                    Three months before, in the same situation, my gambler's instinct would
                        probably have helped me out. For I had not been gambling in the great
                        American Monte Carlo all those years without getting used to the downs as
                        well as to the ups. I had notand have notanything of the business man in my
                        composition. To me, it was wholly finance, wholly a game, with excitement
                        the chief factor and the sure winning, 
                        whether the little ball rolled my way or not. I was the financier, the
                        gambler and adventurer; and that had been my principal asset. For, the man
                        who wins in the long run at any of the great games of lifeand they are all
                        alikeis the man with the cool head; and the only man whose head is cool is
                        he who plays for the game's sake, not caring greatly whether he wins or
                        loses on any one play, because he feels that if he wins to-day, he will lose
                        to-morrow; if he loses to-day, he will win to-morrow. But now a new factor
                        had come into the game. I spread out the paper and stared at the head-lines:
                        "Black Matt To Wed Society BelleThe Bucket-Shop King Will Lead Anita
                        Ellersly To The Altar." I tried to read the vulgar article under these
                        vulgar lines, but I could not. I was sick, sick in body and in mind. My
                        "nerve" was gone. I was no longer the free lance; I had responsibilities.
                    That thought dragged another in its train, an ugly, grinning imp that leered
                        at me and sneered: "But she won't have you now!"
                    "She will! She must!" I cried aloud, starting up. And then the storm burstI
                        raged up and down the floor, shaking my clinched fists, gnashing my teeth,
                        muttering all kinds of furious  commands and
                        threatsa truly ridiculous exhibition of impotent rage. For through it all I
                        saw clearly enough that she wouldn't have me, that all these people I'd been
                        trying to climb up among would kick loose my clinging hands and laugh as
                        they watched me disappear. They who were none too gentle and slow in
                        disengaging themselves from those of their own lifelong associates who had
                        reverses of fortunewhat consideration could "Black Matt" expect from them?
                        And sheThe necessity and the ability to deceive myself had gone, now that I
                        could not pay the purchase price for her. The full hideousness of my bargain
                        for her dropped its veil and stood naked before me.
                    At last, disgusted and exhausted, I flung myself down again, and dumbly and
                        helplessly inspected the ruins of my projectsor, rather, the ruin of the one
                        project upon which I had my heart set. I had known I cared for her, but it
                        had seemed to me she was simply one more, the latest, of the objects on
                        which I was in the habit of fixing my will from time to time to make the
                        game more deeply interesting. I now saw that never before had I really been
                        in earnest about anything, that on winning her I had staked myself,  and that myself was a wholly different person
                        from what I had been imagining. In a word, I sat face to face with that
                        unfathomable mystery of sex-affinity that every man laughs at and mocks
                        another man for believing in, until he has himself felt it drawing him
                        against will, against reason, and sense, and interest, over the brink of
                        destruction yawning before his eyesdrawing him as the magnet-mountain drew
                        Sindbad and his ship. And I say to you that those who can defy and resist
                        that compulsion are not more, but less, than man or woman; and their fancied
                        strength is in reality a deficiency. Looking calmly back upon my follies
                        under her spell, I think the better of myself for them. It is the splendid
                        follies of life that redeem it from vulgarity.
                    Butit is not in me to despair. There never yet was an impenetrable siege
                        line; to escape, it is only necessary by craft or by chance to hit upon the
                        moment and the spot for the sortie. "Ruined!" I said aloud. "Trapped and
                        trimmed like the stupidest sucker that ever wandered into Wall Street! A
                        dead one, no doubt; but I'll see to it that they don't enjoy my
                    funeral."
                
                
                
                    XVII
                    A GENTEEL "HOLD-UP"
                    In my childhood at home, my father was often away for a week or longer,
                        working or looking for work. My mother had a notion that a boy should be
                        punished only by his father; so, whenever she caught me in what she regarded
                        as a serious transgression, she used to say: "You will get a good whipping
                        for this, when your father comes home." At first I used to wait passively,
                        suffering the torments of ten thrashings before the "good whipping" came to
                        pass. But soon my mind began to employ the interval more profitably. I would
                        scheme to escape execution of sentence; and, though my mother was a
                        determined woman, many's the time I contrived to change her mind. I am not
                        recommending to parents the system of delay in execution of sentence; but I
                        must say that in my case it was responsible for an invaluable discipline.
                        For example, the Textile tangle.
                    
                    I knew I was in all human probability doomed to go down before the Stock
                        Exchange had been open an hour the next morning. All Textile stocks must
                        start many points higher than they had been at the close, must go steadily
                        and swiftly up. Entangled as my reserve resources were in the Coal deal, I
                        should have no chance to cover my shorts on any terms less than the loss of
                        all I had. At most, I could hope only to save myself from criminal
                        bankruptcy.
                    And now my early training in coolly and calmly studying how to avert
                        execution of sentence came into play. There is a kind of cornered-rat,
                        hit-or-miss, last-ditch fight that any creature will make in such
                        circumstances as mine then were, and the inspirations of despair sometimes
                        happen to be lucky. But I prefer the reasoned-out plan.
                    There was no signal of distress in my voice as I telephoned Corey, president
                        of the Interstate Trust Company, to stay at his office until I came; there
                        was no signal of distress in my manner as I sallied forth and went down to
                        the Power Trust Building; nor did I show or suggest that I had heard the
                        "shot-at-sunrise" sentence, as I strode into Roebuck's presence and greeted
                        him. I was assuming, by way of precaution, that some  rumor about me either had reached him or would soon reach him.
                        I knew he had an eye in every secret of finance and industry, and, while I
                        believed my secret was wholly my own, I had too much at stake with him to
                        bank on that, when I could, as I thought, so easily reassure him.
                    "I've come to suggest, Mr. Roebuck," said I, "that you let my houseBlacklock
                        and Companyannounce the Coal reorganization plan. It would give me a great
                        lift, and Melville and his bank don't need prestige. My daily letters to the
                        public on investments have, as you know, got me a big following that would
                        help me make the flotation an even bigger success than it's bound to be, no
                        matter who announces it and invites subscriptions."
                    As I thus proposed that I be in a jiffy caught up from the extremely humble
                        level of reputed bucket-shop dealer into the highest heaven of high finance,
                        that I be made the official spokesman of the financial gods, his expression
                        was so ludicrous that I almost lost my gravity. I suspect, for a moment he
                        thought I had gone mad. His manner, when he recovered himself sufficiently
                        to speak, was certainly not unlike what it would have been had he found
                        himself alone before  a dangerous lunatic who
                        was armed with a bomb.
                    "You know how anxious I am to help you, to further your interests, Matthew,"
                        said he wheedlingly. "I know no man who has a brighter future. Butnot so
                        fast, not so fast, young man. Of course, you will appear as one of the
                        reorganizing committeebut we could not afford to have the announcement come
                        through any less strong and old established house than the National
                        Industrial Bank."
                    "At least, you can make me joint announcer with them," I urged.
                    "Perhapsyespossiblywe'll see," said he soothingly. "There is plenty of time."
                    "Plenty of time," I assented, as if quite content. "I only wanted to put the
                        matter before you." And I rose to go.
                    "Have you heard the news of Textile Common?" he asked.
                    "Yes," said I carelessly. Then, all in an instant, a plan took shape in my
                        mind. "I own a good deal of the stock, and I must say, I don't like this
                        raise."
                    "Why?" he inquired.
                    "Because I'm sure it's a stock-jobbing 
                        scheme," replied I boldly. "I know the dividend wasn't earned. I don't like
                        that sort of thing, Mr. Roebuck. Not because it's unlawfulthe laws are so
                        clumsy that a practical man often must disregard them. But because it is
                        tampering with the reputation and the stability of a great enterprise for
                        the sake of a few millions of dishonest profit. I'm surprised at Langdon."
                    "I hope you're wrong, Matthew," was Roebuck's only comment. He questioned me
                        no further, and I went away, confident that, when the crash came in the
                        morning, if come it must, there would be no more astonished man in Wall
                        Street than Henry J. Roebuck. How he must have laughed; or, rather, would
                        have laughed, if his sort of human hyena expressed its emotions in the human
                        way.
                    From him, straight to my lawyers, Whitehouse and Fisher, in the Mills
                        Building.
                    "I want you to send for the newspaper reporters at once," said I to Fisher,
                        "and tell them that in my behalf you are going to apply for an injunction
                        against the Textile Trust, forbidding them to take any further steps toward
                        that increase of dividend. Tell them I, as a large  stock-holder, and representing a group of large stock-holders,
                        purpose to stop the paying of unearned dividends."
                    Fisher knew how closely connected my house and the Textile Trust had been;
                        but he showed, and probably felt no astonishment. He was too experienced in
                        the ways of finance and financiers. It was a matter of indifference to him
                        whether I was trying to assassinate my friend and ally, or was feinting at
                        Langdon, to lure the public within reach so that we might, together, fall
                        upon it and make a battue. Your lawyer is your true mercenary. Under his
                        code honor consists in making the best possible fight in exchange for the
                        biggest possible fee. He is frankly for sale to the highest bidder. At least
                        so it is with those that lead the profession nowadays, give it what is
                        called "character" and "tone."
                    Not without some regret did I thus arrange to attack my friend in his
                        absence. "Still," I reasoned, "his blunder in trusting some leaky person
                        with his secret is the cause of my periland I'll not have to justify myself
                        to him for trying to save myself." What effect my injunction would have I
                        could not foresee. Certainly it could not save me from the loss of my
                        fortune;  but, possibly, it might check the
                        upward course of the stock long enough to enable me to snatch myself from
                        ruin, and to cling to firm ground until the Coal deal drew me up to safety.
                    My next call was at the Interstate Trust Company. I found Corey waiting for
                        me in a most uneasy state of mind.
                    "Is there any truth in this story about you?" was the question he plumped at
                        me.
                    "What story?" said I, and a hard fight I had to keep my confusion and alarm
                        from the surface. For, apparently, my secret was out.
                    "That you're on the wrong side of the Textile."
                    So it was out! "Some truth," I admitted, since denial would have been useless
                        here. "And I've come to you for the money to tide me over."
                    He grew white, a sickly white, and into his eyes came a horrible, drowning
                        look.
                    "I owe a lot to you, Matt," he pleaded. "But I've done you a great many
                        favors, haven't I?"
                    "That you have, Bob," I cordially agreed. "But this isn't a favor. It's
                        business."
                    "You mustn't ask it, Blacklock," he cried. "I've loaned you more money now
                        than the law allows. And I can't let you have any more."
                    
                    "Some one has been lying to you, and you've been believing him," said I.
                        "When I say my request isn't a favor, but business, I mean it."
                    "I can't let you have any more," he repeated. "I can't!" And down came his
                        fist in a weak-violent gesture.
                    I leaned forward and laid my hand strongly on his arm.
                    "In addition to the stock of this concern that I hold in my own name," said
                        I, "I hold five shares in the name of a man whom nobody knows that I even
                        know. If you don't let me have the money, that man goes to the district
                        attorney with information that lands you in the penitentiary, that puts your
                        company out of business and into bankruptcy before to-morrow noon. I saved
                        you three years ago, and got you this job against just such an emergency as
                        this, Bob Corey. And, by God, you'll toe the mark!"
                    "But we haven't done anything that every bank in town doesn't do every
                        daydoesn't have to do. If we didn't lend money to dummy borrowers and
                        over-certify accounts, our customers would go where they could get
                        accommodations."
                    "That's true enough," said I. "But I'm in  a
                        position for the moment where I need my friendsand they've got to come to
                        time. If I don't get the money from you, I'll get it elsewherebut over the
                        cliff with you and your bank! The laws you've been violating may be bad for
                        the practical banking business, but they're mighty good for punishing
                        ingratitude and treachery."
                    He sat there, yellow and pinched, and shivering every now and then. He made
                        no reply. He was one of those shells of men that are conspicuous as
                        figureheads in every department of active lifefellows with well-shaped,
                        white-haired or prematurely bald heads, and grave, respectable faces; they
                        look dignified and substantial, and the soul of uprightness; they coin their
                        looks into good salaries by selling themselves as covers for operations of
                        the financiers. And how those operations, in the nude, as it were, would
                        terrify the plodders that save up and deposit or invest the money the
                        financiers gamble with on the big green tables!
                    Presently I shook his arm impatiently. His eyes met mine, and I fixed them.
                    "I'm going to pull through," said I. "But if I weren't, I'd see to it that
                        you were protected.  Come, what's your answer?
                        Friend or traitor?"
                    "Can't you give me any securityany collateral?"
                    "No more than I took from you when I saved you as you were going down with
                        the rest in the Dumont smash. My wordthat's all. I borrow on the same terms
                        you've given me before, the same you're giving four of your heaviest
                        borrowers right now."
                    He winced as I thus reminded him how minute my knowledge was of the workings
                        of his bank.
                    "I didn't think this of you, Matt," he whined. "I believed you above such
                        hold-up methods."
                    "I suit my methods to the men I'm dealing with," was my answer. "These
                        fellows are trying to push me off the life raft. I fight with every weapon I
                        can lay hands on. And I know as well as you do that, if you get into serious
                        trouble through this loan, at least five men we could both name would have
                        to step in and save the bank and cover up the scandal. You'll blackmail
                        them, just as you've blackmailed them before, and they you. Blackmail's a
                        legitimate part of the game. Nobody appreciates that better  than you." It was no time for the smug
                        hypocrisies under which we people down town usually conduct our businessjust
                        as the desperadoes used to patrol the highways disguised as peaceful
                        merchants.
                    "Send round in the morning and get the money," said he, putting on a
                        resigned, hopeless look.
                    I laughed. "I'll feel easier if I take it now," I replied. "We'll fix up the
                        notes and checks at once."
                    He reddened, but after a brief hesitation busied himself. When the papers
                        were all made up and signed, and I had the certified checks in my pocket, I
                        said: "Wait here, Bob, until the National Industrial people call you up.
                        I'll ask them to do it, so they can get your personal assurance that
                        everything's all right. And I'll stop there until they tell me they've
                        talked with you."
                    "But it's too late," he said. "You can't deposit to-day."
                    "I've a special arrangement with them," I replied.
                    His face betrayed him. I saw that at no stage of that proceeding had I been
                        wiser than in  shutting off his last chance to
                        evade. What scheme he had in mind I don't know, and can't imagine. But he
                        had thought out something, probably something foolish that would have given
                        me trouble without saving him. A foolish man in a tight place is as foolish
                        as ever, and Corey was a foolish manonly a fool commits crimes that put him
                        in the power of others. The crimes of the really big captains of industry
                        and generals of finance are of the kind that puts others in their power.
                    "Buck up, Corey," said I. "Do you think I'm the man to shut a friend in the
                        hold of a sinking ship? Tell me, who told you I was short on Textile?"
                    "One of my men," he slowly replied, as he braced himself together.
                    "Which one? Who?" I persisted. For I wanted to know just how far the news was
                        likely to spread.
                    He seemed to be thinking out a lie.
                    "The truth!" I commanded. "I know it couldn't have been one of your men. Who
                        was it? I'll not give you away."
                    "It was Tom Langdon," he finally said. I checked an exclamation of amazement.
                        I  had been assuming that I had been betrayed
                        by some one of those tiny mischances that so often throw the best plans into
                        confusion.
                    "Tom Langdon," I said satirically. "It was he that warned you against me?"
                    "It was a friendly act," said Corey. "He and I are very intimate. And he
                        doesn't know how close you and I are."
                    "Suggested that you call my loans, did he?" I went on.
                    "You mustn't blame him, Blacklock; really you mustn't," said Corey earnestly,
                        for he was a pretty good friend to those he liked, as friendship goes in
                        finance. "He happened to hear. You know the Langdons keep a sharp watch on
                        operations in their stock. And he dropped in to warn me as a friend. You'd
                        do the same thing in the same circumstances. He didn't say a word about my
                        calling your loans. Ito be frankI instantly thought of it myself. I intended
                        to do it when you came, but"a sickly smile"you anticipated me."
                    "I understand," said I good-humoredly. "I don't blame him." And I didn't
                        then.
                    After I had completed my business at the National Industrial, I went back to
                        my office and  gathered together the threads
                        of my web of defense. Then I wrote and sent out to all my newspapers and all
                        my agents a broadside against the management of the Textile Trustit would be
                        published in the morning, in good time for the opening of the Stock
                        Exchange. Before the first quotation of Textile could be made, thousands on
                        thousands of investors and speculators throughout the country would have
                        read my letter, would be believing that Matthew Blacklock had detected the
                        Textile Trust in a stock-jobbing swindle, and had promptly turned against
                        it, preferring to keep faith with his customers and with the public. As I
                        read over my pronunciamiento aloud before sending it out, I found in it a
                        note of confidence that cheered me mightily. "I'm even stronger than I
                        thought," said I. And I felt stronger still as I went on to picture the
                        thousands on thousands throughout the land rallying at my call to give
                        battle.
                
                
                
                    XVIII
                    ANITA BEGINS TO BE HERSELF
                    I had asked Sam Ellersly to dine with me; so preoccupied was I that not until
                        ten minutes before the hour set did he come into my mindhe or any of his
                        family, even his sister. My first impulse was to send word that I couldn't
                        keep the engagement. "But I must dine somewhere," I reflected, "and there's
                        no reason why I shouldn't dine with him, since I've done everything that can
                        be done." In my office suite I had a bath and dressing-room, with a complete
                        wardrobe. Thus, by hurrying a little over my toilet, and by making my
                        chauffeur crowd the speed limit, I was at Delmonico's only twenty minutes
                        late.
                    Sam, who had been late also, as usual, was having a cocktail and was ordering
                        the dinner. I smoked a cigarette and watched him. At business or at anything
                        serious his mind was all but useless; but at ordering dinner and things of
                        that  sort, he shone. Those small
                        accomplishments of his had often moved me to a sort of pitying contempt, as
                        if one saw a man of talent devoting himself to engraving the Lord's Prayer
                        on gold dollars. That evening, however, as I saw how comfortable and
                        contented he looked, with not a care in the world, since he was to have a
                        good dinner and a good cigar afterward; as I saw how much genuine pleasure
                        he was getting out of selecting the dishes and giving the waiter minute
                        directions for the chef, I envied him.
                    What Langdon had once said came back to me: "We are under the tyranny of
                        to-morrow, and happiness is impossible." And I thought how true that was.
                        But, for the Sammys, high and low, there is no to-morrow. He was somehow
                        impressing me with a sense that he was my superior. His face was weak, and,
                        in a weak way, bad; but there was a certain fineness of quality in it, a
                        sort of hothouse look, as if he had been sheltered all his life, and brought
                        up on especially selected food. "Men like me," thought I with a certain
                        envy, "rise and fall. But his sort of men have got something that can't be
                        taken away, that enables them to carry off with grace, poverty or the
                        degradation of being spongers and beggars." 
                        This shows how far I had let that attack of snobbishness eat into me. I
                        glanced down at my hands. No delicateness there; certainly those fingers,
                        though white enough nowadays, and long enough, too, were not made for fancy
                        work and parlor tricks. They would have looked in place round the handle of
                        a spade or the throttle of an engine, while Sam's seemed made for the
                        keyboard of a piano.
                    "You must come over to my rooms after dinner, and give me some music," said
                        I.
                    "Thanks," he replied, "but I've promised to go home and play bridge. Mother's
                        got a few in to dinner, and more are coming afterward, I believe."
                    "Then I'll go with you, and talk to your sistershe doesn't play."
                    He glanced at me in a way that made me pass my hand over my face. I learned
                        at least part of the reason for my feeling at disadvantage before him. I had
                        forgotten to shave; and as my beard is heavy and black, it has to be looked
                        after twice a day. "Oh, I can stop at my rooms and get my face into
                        condition in a few minutes," said I.
                    "And put on evening dress, too," he suggested. 
                        "You wouldn't want to go in a dinner jacket."
                    I can't say why this was the "last straw," but it was.
                    "Bother!" said I, my common sense smashing the spell of snobbishness that had
                        begun to reassert itself as soon as I got into his unnatural, unhealthy
                        atmosphere. "I'll go as I am, beard and all. I only make myself ridiculous,
                        trying to be a sheep. I'm a goat, and a goat I'll stay."
                    That shut him into himself. When he reemerged, it was to say: "Something
                        doing down town to-day, eh?"
                    A sharpness in his voice and in his eyes, too, made me put my mind on him
                        more closely, and then I saw what I should have seen beforethat he was moody
                        and slightly distant.
                    "Seen Tom Langdon this afternoon?" I asked carelessly.
                    He colored. "Yeshad lunch with him," was his answer.
                    I smiledfor his benefit. "Aha!" thought I. "So Tom Langdon has been fool
                        enough to take this paroquet into his confidence." Then I said to him: "Is
                        Tom making the rounds, warning the rats to leave the sinking ship?"
                    
                    "What do you mean, Matt?" he demanded, as if I had accused him.
                    I looked steadily at him, and I imagine my unshaven jaw did not make my
                        aspect alluring.
                    "That I'm thinking of driving the rats overboard," replied I. "The ship's
                        sound, but it would be sounder if there were fewer of them."
                    "You don't imagine anything Tom could say would change my feelings toward
                        you?" he pleaded.
                    "I don't know, and I don't care a damn," replied I coolly. "But I do know,
                        before the Langdons or anybody else can have Blacklock pie, they'll have
                        first to catch their Blacklock."
                    I saw Langdon had made him uneasy, despite his belief in my strength. And he
                        was groping for confirmation or reassurance. "But," thought I, "if he thinks
                        I may be going up the spout, why isn't he more upset? He probably hates me
                        because I've befriended him, but no matter how much he hated me, wouldn't
                        his fear of being cut off from supplies drive him almost crazy?" I studied
                        him in vain for sign of deep anxiety. Either Tom didn't tell him much, I
                        decided, or he didn't believe Tom knew what he was talking about.
                    
                    "What did Tom say about me?" I inquired.
                    "Oh, almost nothing. We were talking chiefly ofof club matters," he answered,
                        in a fair imitation of his usual offhand manner.
                    "When does my name come up there?" said I.
                    He flushed and shifted. "I was just about to tell you," he stammered. "But
                        perhaps you know?"
                    "Know what?"
                    "ThatHasn't Tom told you? He has withdrawnandyou'll have to get another
                        secondif you thinkthat isunless youI suppose you'd have told me, if you'd
                        changed your mind?"
                    Since I had become so deeply interested in Anita, my ambitionambition!to join
                        the Travelers had all but dropped out of my mind.
                    "I had forgotten about it," said I. "But, now that you remind me, I want my
                        name withdrawn. It was a passing fancy. It was part and parcel of a lot of
                        damn foolishness I've been indulging in for the last few months. But I've
                        come to my sensesand it's 'me to the wild,' where I belong, Sammy, from this
                        time on."
                    He looked tremendously relieved, and a little puzzled, too. I thought I was
                        reading him like  an illuminated sign. "He's
                        eager to keep friends with me," thought I, "until he's absolutely sure
                        there's nothing more in it for him and his people." And that guess was a
                        pretty good one. It is not to the discredit of my shrewdness that I didn't
                        see it was not hope, but fear, that made him try to placate me. I could not
                        have possibly known then what the Langdons had done. ButSammy was saying, in
                        his friendliest tone:
                    "What's the matter, old man? You're sour to-night."
                    "Never in a better humor," I assured him, and as I spoke the words they came
                        true. What I had been saying about the Travelers and all it representedall
                        the snobbery, and smirking, and rotten pretensemy final and absolute
                        renunciation of it allacted on me as I've seen religion act on the fellows
                        that used to go up to the mourners' bench at the revivals. I felt as if I
                        had suddenly emerged from the parlor of a dive and its stench of sickening
                        perfumes, into the pure air of God's Heaven.
                    I signed the bill, and we went afoot up the avenue. Sam, as I saw with a good
                        deal of amusement, was trying to devise some subtle, tactful  way of attaching his poor, clumsy little
                        suction-pump to the well of my secret thoughts.
                    "What is it, Sammy?" said I at last. "What do you want to know that you're
                        afraid to ask me?"
                    "Nothing," he said hastily. "I'm only a bit worried aboutabout you and
                        Textile. Matt,"this in the tone of deep emotion we reserve for the attempt
                        to lure our friends into confiding that about themselves which will give us
                        the opportunity to pity them, and, if necessary, to sheer off from
                        them"Matt, I do hope you haven't been hard hit?"
                    "Not yet," said I easily. "Dry your tears and put away your black clothes.
                        Your friend, Tom Langdon, was a little premature."
                    "I'm afraid I've given you a false impression," Sam continued, with an
                        overeagerness to convince me that did not attract my attention at the time.
                        "Tom merely said, 'I hear Blacklock is loaded up with Textile shorts,'that
                        was all. A careless remark. I really didn't think of it again until I saw
                        you looking so black and glum."
                    That seemed natural enough, so I changed the subject. As we entered his
                        house, I said:
                    "I'll not go up to the drawing-room. Make  my
                        excuses to your mother, will you? I'll turn into the little smoking-room
                        here. Tell your sisterand say I'm going to stop only a moment."
                    Sam had just left me when the butler came. "Mr. BallI think that was the
                        name, sirwishes to speak to you on the telephone."
                    I had given Ellerslys' as one of the places at which I might be found, should
                        it be necessary to consult me. I followed the butler to the telephone closet
                        under the main stairway. As soon as Ball made sure it was I, he began:
                    "I'll use the code words. I've just seen Fearless, as you told me to."
                    Fearlessthat was Mitchell, my spy in the employ of Tavistock, who was my
                        principal rival in the business of confidential brokerage for the high
                        financiers. "Yes," said I. "What does he say?"
                    "There has been a great deal of heavy buying for a month past."
                    Then my dread was well-foundedTextiles were to be deliberately rocketed.
                        "Who's been doing it?" I asked.
                    "He found out only this afternoon. It's been kept unusually dark. It"
                    "Who? Who?" I demanded.
                    
                    "Intrepid," he answered.
                    Intrepidthat is, LangdonMowbray Langdon!
                    "The whole thing was planned carefully," continued Ball, "and is coming off
                        according to schedule. Fearless overheard a final message Intrepid's brother
                        brought from him to-day."
                    So it was no mischanceit was an assassination. Mowbray Langdon had stabbed me
                        in the back and fled.
                    "Did you hear what I said?" asked Ball. "Is that you?"
                    "Yes," I replied.
                    "Oh," came in a relieved tone from the other end of the wire. "You were so
                        long in answering that I thought I'd been cut off. Any instructions?"
                    "No," said I. "Good-by."
                    I heard him ring off, but I sat there for several minutes, the receiver still
                        to my ear. I was muttering: "Langdon, Langdonwhywhywhy?" again and again.
                        Why had he turned against me? Why had he plotted to destroy meone of those
                        plots so frequent in Wall Streetwhere the assassin steals up, delivers the
                        mortal blow, and steals away without ever being detected  or even suspected? I saw the whole plot nowI
                        understood Tom Langdon's activities, I recalled Mowbray Langdon's curious
                        phrases and looks and tones. Butwhywhywhy? How was I in his way?
                    It was all dark to mepitch-dark. I returned to the smoking-room, lighted a
                        cigar, sat fumbling at the new situation. I was in no worse plight than
                        beforewhat did it matter who was attacking me? In the circumstances, a
                        novice could now destroy me as easily as a Langdon. Still, Ball's news
                        seemed to take away my courage. I reminded myself that I was used to
                        treachery of this sort, that I deserved what I was getting because I had,
                        like a fool, dropped my guard in the fight that is always an
                        every-man-for-himself. But I reminded myself in vain. Langdon's smiling
                        treachery made me heart-sick.
                    Soon Anita appearedpreceded and heralded by a faint rustling from soft and
                        clinging skirts, that swept my nerves like a love-tune. I suppose for all
                        men there is a charm, a spell, beyond expression, in the sight of a delicate
                        beautiful young woman, especially if she be dressed in those fine fabrics
                        that look as if only a fairy loom could have woven them; and when a man
                        loves  the woman who bursts upon his vision,
                        that spell must overwhelm him, especially if he be such a man as was Ia
                        product of life's roughest factories, hard and harsh, an elbower and a
                        trampler, a hustler and a bluffer. Then, you must also consider the exact
                        circumstancesI standing there, with destruction hanging over me, with the
                        sense that within a few hours I should be a pariah to her, a masquerader
                        stripped of his disguise and cast out from the ball where he had been making
                        so merry and so free. Only a few hours more! Perhaps now was the last time I
                        should ever stand so near to her! The full realization of all this swallowed
                        me up as in a great, thick, black mist. And my arms strained to escape from
                        my tightly-locked hands, strained to seize her, to snatch from her,
                        reluctant though she might be, at least some part of the happiness that was
                        to be denied me.
                    I think my torment must have somehow penetrated to her. For she was sweet and
                        friendlyand she could not have hurt me worse! If I had followed my impulse I
                        should have fallen at her feet and buried my face, scorching, in the folds
                        of that pale blue, faintly-shimmering robe of hers.
                    
                    "Do throw away that huge, hideous cigar," she said, laughing. And she took
                        two cigarettes from the box, put both between her lips, lit them, held one
                        toward me. I looked at her face, and along her smooth, bare, outstretched
                        arm, and at the pink, slender fingers holding the cigarette. I took it as if
                        I were afraid the spell would be broken, should my fingers touch hers.
                        Afraidthat's it! That's why I didn't pour out all that was in my heart. I
                        deserved to lose her.
                    "I'm taking you away from the others," I said. We could hear the murmur of
                        many voices and of music. In fancy I could see them assembled round the
                        little card-tablesthe well-fed bodies, the well-cared-for skins, the
                        elaborate toilets, the useless jeweled handscomfortable, secure,
                        self-satisfied, idle, always idle, always playing at the imitation gameslike
                        their own pampered children, to be sheltered in the nurseries of wealth
                        their whole lives through. And not at all in bitterness, but wholly in
                        sadness, a sense of the injustice, the unfairness of it alla sense that had
                        been strong in me in my youth but blunted during the years of my busy
                        prosperityreturned for a moment. For a moment only; my mind was soon back to
                        realitiesto her and me  to "us." How soon it
                        would never be "us" again!
                    "They're mama's friends," Anita was answering. "Oldish and tiresome. When you
                        leave I shall go straight on up to bed."
                    "I'd like toto see your roomwhere you live," said I, more to myself than to
                        her.
                    "I sleep in a bare little box," she replied with a laugh. "It's like a cell.
                        A friend of ours who has the anti-germ fad insisted on it. But my
                        sitting-room isn't so bad."
                    "Langdon has the anti-germ fad," said I.
                    She answered "Yes" after a pause, and in such a strained voice that I looked
                        at her. A flush was just dying out of her face. "He was the friend I spoke
                        of," she went on.
                    "You know him very well?" I asked.
                    "We've known himalways," said she. "I think he's one of my earliest
                        recollections. His father's summer place and ours adjoin. And onceI guess
                        it's the first time I remember seeing himhe was a freshman at Harvard, and
                        he came along on a horse past the pony cart in which a groom was driving me.
                        And II was very little thenI begged him to take me up, and he did. I thought
                        he was the greatest, most  wonderful man that
                        ever lived." She laughed queerly. "When I said my prayers, I used to imagine
                        a god that looked like him to say them to."
                    I echoed her laugh heartily. The idea of Mowbray Langdon as a god struck me
                        as peculiary funny, though natural enough, too.
                    "Absurd, wasn't it?" said she. But her face was grave, and she let her
                        cigarette die out.
                    "I guess you know him better than that now?"
                    "Yesbetter," she answered, slowly and absently. "He'sanything but a god!"
                    "And the more fascinating on that account," said I. "I wonder why women like
                        best the really bad, dangerous sort of man, who hasn't any respect for them,
                        or for anything."
                    I said this that she might protest, at least for herself. But her answer was
                        a vague, musing, "I wonderI wonder."
                    "I'm sure you wouldn't," I protested earnestly, for her.
                    She looked at me queerly.
                    "Can I never convince you that I'm just a woman?" said she mockingly. "Just a
                        woman, and one a man with your ideas of women would fly from."
                    
                    "I wish you were!" I exclaimed. "ThenI'd not find it soso impossible to give
                        you up."
                    She rose and made a slow tour of the room, halting on the rug before the
                        closed fireplace a few feet from me. I sat looking at her.
                    "I am going to give you up," I said at last.
                    Her eyes, staring into vacancy, grew larger and intenser with each long, deep
                        breath she took.
                    "I didn't intend to say what I'm about to sayat least, not this evening," I
                        went on, and to me it seemed to be some other than myself who was speaking.
                        "Certain things happened down town to-day that have set me to thinking. AndI
                        shall do whatever I can for your brother and your father. But youyou are
                        free!"
                    She went to the table, stood there in profile to me, straight and slender as
                        a sunflower stalk. She traced the silver chasings in the lid of the
                        cigarette box with her forefinger; then she took a cigarette and began
                        rolling it slowly and absently.
                    "Please don't scent and stain your fingers with that filthy tobacco," said I
                        rather harshly.
                    "And only this afternoon you were saying you had become reconciled to my
                        vicethat you had  canonized it along with
                        mewasn't that your phrase?" This indifferently, without turning toward me,
                        and as if she were thinking of something else.
                    "So I have," retorted I. "But my moodplease oblige me this once."
                    She let the cigarette fall into the box, closed the lid gently, leaned
                        against the table, folded her arms upon her bosom and looked full at me. I
                        was as acutely conscious of her every movement, of the very coming and going
                        of the breath at her nostrils, as a man on the operating-table is conscious
                        of the slightest gesture of the surgeon.
                    "You aresuffering!" she said, and her voice was like the flow of oil upon a
                        burn. "I have never seen you like this. I didn't believe you capable ofof
                        much feeling."
                    I could not trust myself to speak. If Bob Corey could have looked in on that
                        scene, could have understood it, how amazed he would have been!
                    "What happened down town to-day?" she went on. "Tell me, if I may know."
                    "I'll tell you what I didn't think, ten minutes ago, I'd tell any human
                        being," said I. "They've got me strapped down in the press. At ten  o'clock in the morningprecisely at tenthey're
                        going to put on the screws." I laughed. "I guess they'll have me squeezed
                        pretty dry before noon."
                    She shivered.
                    "So, you see," I continued, "I don't deserve any credit for giving you up. I
                        only anticipate you by about twenty-four hours. Mine's a deathbed
                        repentance."
                    "I'd thought of that," said she reflectively. Presently she added: "Then, it
                        is true." And I knew Sammy had given her some hint that prepared her for my
                        confession.
                    "YesI can't go blustering through the matrimonial market," replied I. "I've
                        been thrown out. I'm a beggar at the gates."
                    "A beggar at the gates," she murmured.
                    I got up and stood looking down at her.
                    "Don't pity me!" I said. "My remark was a figure of speech.
                        I want no alms. I wouldn't take even you as alms. They'll probably get me
                        down, and stamp the life out of menearly. But not quitedon't you lose sight
                        of that. They can't kill me, and they can't tame me. I'll recover, and I'll
                        strew the Street with their blood and broken bones."
                    
                    She drew in her breath sharply.
                    "And a minute ago I was almost liking you!" she exclaimed.
                    I retreated to my chair and gave her a smile that must have been grim.
                    "Your ideas of life and of men are like a cloistered nun's," said I. "If
                        there are any real men among your acquaintances, you may find out some day
                        that they're not so much like lapdogs as they pretendand that you wouldn't
                        like them, if they were."
                    "Whatjust whathappened to you down town to-dayafter you left me?"
                    "A friend of mine has been luring me into a trapwhy, I can't quite fathom.
                        To-day he sprang the trap and ran away."
                    "A friend of yours?"
                    "The man we were talking aboutyour exgodLangdon."
                    "Langdon," she repeated, and her tone told me that Sammy knew and had hinted
                        to her more than I suspected him of knowing. And, with her arms still
                        folded, she paced up and down the room. I watched her slender feet in pale
                        blue slippers appear and disappearfirst one, then the otherat the edge of
                        her trailing skirt.  Presently she stopped in
                        front of me. Her eyes were gazing past me.
                    "You are sure it was he?" she asked.
                    I could not answer immediately, so amazed was I at her expression. I had been
                        regarding her as a being above and apart, an incarnation of youth and
                        innocence; with a shock it now came to me that she was experienced,
                        intelligent, that she understood the whole of life, the dark as fully as the
                        light, and that she was capable to live it, too. It was not a girl that was
                        questioning me there; it was a woman.
                    "YesLangdon," I replied. "But I've no quarrel with him. My reverse is nothing
                        but the fortune of war. I assure you, when I see him again, I'll be as
                        friendly as everonly a bit less of a trusting ass, I fancy. We're a lot of
                        free lances down in the Street. We fight now on one side, now on the other.
                        We change sides whenever it's expedient; and under the code it's not
                        necessary to give warning. To-day, before I knew he was the assassin, I had
                        made my plans to try to save myself at his expense, though I believed him to
                        be the best friend I had down town. No doubt he's got some good reason for
                        creeping up on me in the dark."
                    
                    "You are sure it was he?" she repeated.
                    "He, and nobody else," replied I. "He decided to do me upand I guess he'll
                        succeed. He's not the man to lift his gun unless he's sure the bird will
                        fall."
                    "Do you really not care any more than you show?" she asked. "Or is your
                        manner only bravadoto show off before me?"
                    "I don't care a damn, since I'm to lose you," said I. "It'll be a godsend to
                        have a hard row to hoe the next few months or years."
                    She went back to leaning against the table, her arms folded as before. I saw
                        she was thinking out something. Finally she said:
                    "I have decided not to accept your release."
                    I sprang to my feet.
                    "Anita!" I cried, my arms stretched toward her.
                    But she only looked coldly at me, folded her arms the more tightly and said:
                    "Do not misunderstand me. The bargain is the same as before. If you want me
                        on those terms, I mustgive myself."
                    "Why?" I asked.
                    A faint smile, with no mirth in it, drifted round the corners of her mouth.
                    
                    "An impulse," she said. "I don't quite understand it myself. An impulse
                        fromfrom" Her eyes and her thoughts were far away, and her expression was
                        the one that made it hardest for me to believe she was a child of those
                        parents of hers. "An impulse from a sense of justiceof decency. I am the
                        cause of your trouble, and I daren't be a coward and a cheat." She repeated
                        the last words. "A cowarda cheat! WeIhave taken much from you, more than you
                        know. It must be repaid. If you still wish, I willwill keep to my bargain."
                    "It's true, I'd not have got into the mess," said I, "if I'd been attending
                        to business instead of dangling after you. But you're not responsible for
                        that folly."
                    She tried to speak several times, before she finally suceeded in saying:
                    "It's my fault. I mustn't shirk."
                    I studied her, but I couldn't puzzle her out.
                    "I've been thinking all along that you were simple and transparent," I said.
                        "Now, I see you are a mystery. What are you hiding from me?"
                    Her smile was almost coquettish as she replied:
                    
                    "When a woman makes a mystery of herself to a man, it's for the man's good."
                    I took her handalmost timidly.
                    "Anita," I said, "do you stilldislike me?"
                    "I do notand shall notlove you," she answered. "But you are"
                    "More endurable?" I suggested, as she hesitated.
                    "Less unendurable," she said with raillery. Then she added, "Less unendurable
                        than profiting by acreeping up in the dark."
                    I thought I understood her better than she understood herself. And suddenly
                        my passion melted in a tenderness I would have said was as foreign to me as
                        rain to a desert. I noticed that she had a haggard look. "You are very
                        tired, child," said I. "Good night. I am a different man from what I was
                        when I came in here."
                    "And I a different woman," said she, a beauty shining from her that was as
                        far beyond her physical beauty asas love is beyond passion.
                    "A nobler, better woman," I exclaimed, kissing her hand.
                    She snatched it away.
                    "If you only knew!" she cried. "It seems to me, as I realize what sort of
                        woman I am, that I  am almost worthy of you!" And she blazed a look at me that left me rooted
                        there, astounded.
                    But I went down the avenue with a light heart. "Just like a woman," I was
                        saying to myself cheerfully, "not to know her own mind."
                    A few blocks, and I stopped and laughed outrightat Langdon's treachery, at my
                        own credulity. "What an ass I've been making of myself!" said I to myself.
                        And I could see myself as I really had been during those months of social
                        strugglingan ass, braying and gamboling in a lion's skinto impress the
                        ladies!
                    "But not wholly to no purpose," I reflected, again all in a glow at thought
                        of Anita.
                
                
                
                    XIX
                    A WINDFALL FROM "GENTLEMAN JOE"
                    I went to my rooms, purposing to go straight to bed, and get a good sleep. I
                        did make a start toward undressing; then I realized that I should only lie
                        awake with my brain wearing me out, spinning crazy thoughts and schemes hour
                        after hourfor my imagination rarely lets it do any effective thinking after
                        the lights are out and the limitations of material things are wiped away by
                        the darkness. I put on a dressing-gown and seated myself to smoke and to
                        read.
                    When I was very young, new to New York, in with the Tenderloin crowd and up
                        to all sorts of pranks, I once tried opium smoking. I don't think I ever
                        heard of anything in those days without giving it a try. Usually, I believe,
                        opium makes the smoker ill the first time or two; but it had no such effect
                        on me, nor did it fill my mind with fantastic visions. On the contrary, it
                        made everything around me intensely real  that
                        is, it enormously stimulated my dominant characteristic of accurate
                        observation. I noticed the slightest detailssuch things as the slight
                        difference in the length of the arms of the Chinaman who kept the "joint,"
                        the number of buttons down the front of the waist of the girl in the bunk
                        opposite mine, across the dingy, little, sweet-scented room. Nothing escaped
                        me, and also I was conscious of each passing second, or, rather, fraction of
                        a second.
                    As a rule, time and events, even when one is quietest, go with such a rush
                        that one notes almost nothing of what is passing. The opium seemed to compel
                        the kaleidoscope of life to turn more slowly; in fact, it sharpened my
                        senses so that they unconsciously took impressions many times more quickly
                        and easily and accurately. As I sat there that night after leaving Anita,
                        forcing my mind to follow the printed lines, I found I was in exactly the
                        state in which I had been during my one experiment with opium. It seemed to
                        me that as many days as there had been hours must have elapsed since I got
                        the news of the raised Textile dividend. Daysyes, weeks, even months, of
                        thought and action seemed to have been compressed into those six  hoursfor, as I sat there, it was not yet
                        eleven o'clock.
                    And then I realized that this notion was not of the moment, but that I had
                        been as if under the influence of some powerful nerve stimulant since my
                        brain began to recover from the shock of that thunderbolt. Only, where nerve
                        stimulants often make the mind passive and disinclined to take part in the
                        drama so vividly enacting before it, this opening of my reservoirs of
                        reserve nervous energy had multiplied my power to act as well as my power to
                        observe. "I wonder how long it will last," thought I. And it made me uneasy,
                        this unnatural alertness, unaccompanied by any feverishness or sense of
                        strain. "Is this the way madness begins?"
                    I dressed myself again and went outwent up to Joe Healey's gambling place in
                        Forty-fourth Street. Most of the well-known gamblers up town, as well as
                        their "respectable" down town fellow members of the fraternity, were old
                        acquaintances of mine; Joe Healey was as close a friend as I had. He had
                        great fame for squarenessand, in a sense, deserved it. With his fellow
                        gamblers he was straight as a string at all timesto be otherwise would have
                        meant  that when he went broke he would stay
                        broke, because none of the fraternity would "stake" him. But with his
                        patronsbeing regarded by them as a pariah, he acted toward them like a
                        pariaha prudent pariah. He fooled them with a frank show of gentlemanliness,
                        of honesty to his own hurt; under that cover he fleeced them well, but
                        always judiciously.
                    That night, I recall, Joe's guests were several young fellows of the
                        fashionable set, rich men's sons and their parasites, a few of the big down
                        town operators who hadn't yet got hipped on "respectability"they playing
                        poker in a private roomand a couple of flush-faced, flush-pursed chaps from
                        out of town, for whom one of Joe's men was dealing faro from what looked to
                        my experienced and accurate eye like a "brace" box.
                    Joe, very elegant, too elegant in fact, in evening dress, was showing a new
                        piece of statuary to the oldest son of Melville, of the National Industrial
                        Bank. Joe knew a little something about arthe was much like the art dealers
                        who, as a matter of business, learn the difference between good things and
                        bad, but in their hearts wonder and laugh at people willing to part with  large sums of money for a little paint or
                        marble or the like.
                    As soon as Joe thought he had sufficiently impressed young Melville, he
                        drifted him to a roulette table, left him there and joined me.
                    "Come to my office," said he. "I want to see you."
                    He led the way down the richly-carpeted marble stairway as far as the landing
                        at the turn. There, on a sort of mezzanine, he had a gorgeous little suite.
                        The principal object in the sitting-room or office was a huge safe. He
                        closed and locked the outside door behind us.
                    "Take a seat," said he. "You'll like the cigars in the second box on my
                        deskthe long one." And he began turning the combination lock. "You haven't
                        dropped in on us for the past three or four months," he went on.
                    "No," said I, getting a great deal of pleasure out of seeing again, and thus
                        intimately, his round, ruddy facelike a yachtman's, not like a drinker'sand
                        his shifty, laughing brown eyes. "The game down town has given me enough
                        excitement. I haven't had to continue it up town to keep my hand in."
                    In fact, I had, as I have already said, been 
                        breaking off with my former friends because, while many of the most
                        reputable and reliable financiers down town go in for high play occasionally
                        at the gambling houses, it isn't wise for the man trying to establish
                        himself as a strictly legitimate financier. I had been playing as much as
                        ever, but only in games in my own rooms and at the rooms of other bankers,
                        brokers and commercial leaders. The passion for high play is a craving that
                        gnaws at a man all the time, and he must always be feeding it one way or
                        another.
                    "I've noticed that you are getting too swell to patronize us fellows," said
                        he, his shrewd smile showing that my polite excuse had not fooled him.
                        "Well, Matt, you're rightyou always did have good sound sense and a steady
                        eye for the main chance. I used to think the women'd ruin you, they were so
                        crazy about that handsome mug and figure of yours. But when I saw you knew
                        exactly when to let go, I knew nothing could stop you."
                    By this time he had the safe open, disclosing several compartments and a
                        small, inside safe. He worked away at the second combination lock, and
                        presently exposed the interior of the little safe. It was filled with a
                        great roll of bills. He  pried this out,
                        brought it over to the desk and began wrapping it up. "I want you to take
                        this with you when you go," said he. "I've made several big killings lately,
                        and I'm going to get you to invest the proceeds."
                    "I can't take that big bundle along with me, Joe," said I. "Besides, it ain't
                        safe. Put it in the bank and send me a check."
                    "Not on your life," replied Healey with a laugh. "The suckers we trimmed gave
                        checks, and I turned 'em into cash as soon as the banks opened. I wasn't any
                        too spry, either. Two of the damned sneaks consulted lawyers as soon as they
                        sobered off, and tried to stop payment on their checks. They're threatening
                        proceedings. You must take the dough away with you, and I don't want a
                        receipt."
                    "Trimming suckers, eh?" said I, not able to decide what to do.
                    "Their fathers stole it from the public," he explained. "They're drunken
                        little snobs, not fit to have money. I'm doing a public service by relieving
                        them of it. If I'd 'a' got more, I'd feel that much more"he vented his
                        light, cool, sarcastic laugh"more patriotic."
                    "I can't take it," said I, feeling that, in my 
                        present condition, to take it would be very near to betraying the confidence
                        of my old friend.
                    "They lost it in a straight game," he hastened to assure me. "I haven't had a
                        'brace' box or crooked wheel for four years." This with a sober face and a
                        twinkle in his eye. "But even if I had helped chance to do the good work of
                        teaching them to take care of their money, you'd not refuse me. Up town and
                        down town, and all over the place, what's business, when you come to look at
                        it sensibly, but trading in stolen goods? Do you know a man who could
                        honestly earn more than ten or twenty thousand a yeargood clean money by
                        good clean work?"
                    "Oh, for that matter, your money's as clean as anybody's," said I. "But, you
                        know, I'm a speculator, Joe. I have my downsand this happens to be a stormy
                        time for me. If I take your money, I mayn't be able to account for it or
                        even to pay dividends on it formaybe a year or so."
                    "It's all right, old man. I'll never give it a thought till you remind me of
                        it. Use it as you'd use your own. I've got to put it behind somebody's
                        luckwhy not yours?"
                    He finished doing up the package, then he 
                        seated himself, and we both looked at it through the smoke of our cigars.
                    "It's just as easy to deal in big sums as in little, in large matters as in
                        small, isn't it, Joe," said I, "once one gets in the way of it?"
                    "Do you rememberaway back therethe morning," he asked musingly"the last
                        morningyou and I got up from the straw in the stables over at Jerome Parkthe
                        stables they let us sleep in?"
                    "And went out in the dawn to roost on the rails and spy on the speed trials
                        of old Revell's horses?"
                    "Exactly," said Joe, and we looked at each other and laughed. "We in
                        ragsgosh, how chilly it was that morning! Do you remember what we talked
                        about?"
                    "No," said I, though I did.
                    "I was proposing to turn a crooked trickand you wouldn't have it. You
                        persuaded me to keep straight, Matt. I've never forgotten it. You kept me
                        straightshowed me what a damn fool a man was to load himself down with a
                        petty larceny record. You made a man of me, Matt. And then those good looks
                        of yours caught the eye of that bookmaker's girl, and he gave you a  job at writing sheetand you worked me in with
                        you."
                    So long ago it seemed, yet near and real, too, as I sat there, conscious of
                        every sound and motion, even of the fantastic shapes taken by our upcurling
                        smoke. How far I was from the "rail bird" of those happy-go-lucky years,
                        when a meal meant quite as much to me as does a million nowhow far from all
                        that, yet how near, too. For was I not still facing life with the same
                        careless courage, forgetting each yesterday in the eager excitement of each
                        new day with its new deal? We went on in our reminiscences for a while;
                        then, as Joe had a little work to do, I drifted out into the house, took a
                        bite of supper with young Melville, had a little go at the tiger, and toward
                        five in the clear June morning emerged into the broad day of the streets,
                        with the precious bundle under my arms and a five hundred-dollar bill in my
                        waistcoat pocket.
                    "Give my win to me in a single bill," I said to the banker, "and blow
                        yourself off with the change."
                    Joe walked down the street with mefor companionship and a little air before
                        turning in, he said, but I imagine a desire to keep his eye on  his treasure a while longer had something to
                        do with his taking that early morning stroll. We passed several of those
                        forlorn figures that hurry through the slowly-awakening streets to bed or to
                        work. Finally, there came by an old, old womana scrubwoman, I guess, on her
                        way home from cleaning some office building. Beside her was a thin little
                        boy, hopping along on a crutch. I stopped them.
                    "Hold out your hand," said I to the boy, and he did. I laid the five
                        hundred-dollar bill in it. "Now, shut your fingers tight over that," said I,
                        "and don't open them till you get home. Then tell your mother to do what she
                        likes with it." And we left them gaping after us, speechless before this
                        fairy story come true.
                    "You must be looking hard for luck to-day," said Joe, who understood this
                        transaction where another might have thought it a showy and not very wise
                        charity. "They'll stop in at the church and pray for you, and burn a
                        candle."
                    "I hope so," said I, "for God knows I need it."
                
                
                
                    XX
                    A BREATHING SPELL
                    Langdon, after several years of effort, had got recognition for Textile in
                        London, but that was about all. He hadn't succeeded in unloading any great
                        amount of it on the English. So it was rather because I neglected nothing
                        than because I was hopeful of results that I had made a point of
                        telegraphing to London news of my proposed suit. The result was a little
                        trading in Textiles over there and a slight decline in the price. This fact
                        was telegraphed to all the financial centers on this side of the water, and
                        reinforced the impression my lawyers' announcement and my own "bear" letter
                        were making.
                    Still, this was nothing, or next to it. What could I hope to avail against
                        Langdon's agents with almost unlimited capital, putting their whole energy
                        under the stock to raise it? In the same newspapers that published my bear
                        attack, in the same columns and under the same head-lines,  were official denials from the Textile Trust
                        and the figures of enormous increase of business as proof positive that the
                        denials were honest. If the public had not been burned so many times by
                        "industrials," if it had not learned by bitter experience that practically
                        none of the leaders of finance and industry were above lying to make or save
                        a few dollars, if Textiles had not been manipulated so often, first by
                        Dumont and since his death by his brother-in-law and successor, this suave
                        and cynical Langdon, my desperate attack would have been without effect. As
                        it was
                    Four months before, in the same situation, had I seen Textiles stagger as
                        they staggered in the first hour of business on the Stock Exchange that
                        morning, I'd have sounded the charge, clapped spurs to my charger, and borne
                        down upon them. ButI had my new-born yearning for "respectability"; I had my
                        new-born squeamishness, which led me to fear risking Bob Corey and his bank
                        and the money of my old friend Healey; finally, there was Anitathe longing
                        for her that made me prefer a narrow and uncertain foothold to the bold leap
                        that would land me either in wealth and power or in the bottomless abyss.
                    Instead of continuing to sell Textiles, I covered  as far as I could; and I bought so eagerly and so heavily
                        that, more than Langdon's corps of rocketers, I was responsible for the
                        stock's rally and start upward. When I say "eagerly" and "heavily," I do not
                        mean that I acted openly or without regard to common sense. I mean simply
                        that I made no attempt to back up my followers in the selling campaign I had
                        urged them into; on the contrary, I bought as they sold. That does not sound
                        well, and it is no better than it sounds. I shall not dispute with any one
                        who finds this action of mine a betrayal of my clients to save myself. All I
                        shall say is that it was business, that in such extreme and dire compulsion
                        as was mine, it wasand isright under the code, the private and real Wall
                        Street code.
                    You can imagine the confused mass of transactions in which I was involved
                        before the Stock Exchange had been open long. There was the stock we had
                        been able to buy or get options on at various prices, between the closing of
                        the Exchange the previous day and that morning's openingstock from all parts
                        of this country and in England. There was the stock I had been buying since
                        the Exchange openedbuying at figures ranging from one-eighth above last
                        night's  closing price to fourteen points
                        above it. And, on the debit side, there were the "short" transactions
                        extending over a period of nearly two months"sellings" of blocks large and
                        small at a hundred different prices.
                    An inextricable tangle, you will say, one it would be impossible for a man to
                        unravel quickly and in the frantic chaos of a wild Stock Exchange day. Yet
                        the influence of the mysterious state of my nerves, which I have described
                        above, was so marvelous that, incredible though it seems, the moment the
                        Exchange closed, I knew exactly, where I stood.
                    Like a mechanical lightning calculator, my mind threw up before me the net
                        result of these selling and buying transactions. Textile Common closed
                        eighteen points above the closing quotation of the previous day; if
                        Langdon's brother had not been just a little indiscreet, I should have been
                        as hopeless a bankrupt in reputation and in fortune as ever was ripped up by
                        the bulls of Wall Street.
                    As it was, I believed that, by keeping a bold front, I might extricate and
                        free myself when the Coal reorganization was announced. The rise of Coal
                        stocks would square my debtsand,  as I was
                        apparently untouched by the Textile flurry, so far as even Ball, my nominal
                        partner and chief lieutenant, knew, I need not fear pressure from creditors
                        that I could not withstand.
                    I could not breathe freely, but I could breathe.
                
                
                
                    XXI
                    MOST UNLADYLIKE
                    When I saw I was to have a respite of a month or so, I went over to the
                        National Industrial Bank with Healey's roll, which my tellers had counted
                        and prepared for deposit. I finished my business with the receiving teller
                        of the National Industrial, and dropped in on my friend Lewis, the first
                        vice-president. I did not need to pretend coolness and confidence; my nerves
                        were still in that curious state of tranquil exhilaration, and I felt master
                        of myself and of the situation. Just as I was leaving, in came Tom Langdon
                        with Sam Ellersly.
                    Tom's face was a laughable exhibit of embarrassment. Samreally, I felt sorry
                        for him. There was no reason on earth why he shouldn't be with Tom Langdon;
                        yet he acted as if I had caught him "with the goods on him." He stammered
                        and stuttered, clasped my hand eagerly, dropped it as if it had stung him;
                        he jerked out  a string of hysterical
                        nonsense, ending with a laugh so crazy that the sound of it disconcerted
                        him. Drink was the explanation that drifted through my mind; but in fact I
                        thought little about it, so full was I of other matters.
                    "When is your brother returning?" said I to Tom.
                    "On the next steamer, I believe," he replied. "He went only for the rest and
                        the bath of sea air." With an effort he collected himself, drew me aside and
                        said: "I owe you an apology, Mr. Blacklock. I went to the steamer with
                        Mowbray to see him off, and he asked me to tell you about our new dividend
                        ratethough it was not to be made public for some time. Anyhow, he told me to
                        go straight to youand Ifrankly, I forgot it." Then, with the winning, candid
                        Langdon smile, he added, ingenuously: "The best excuse in the worldyet the
                        one nobody ever accepts."
                    "No apology necessary," said I with the utmost good nature. "I've no personal
                        interest in Textile. My house deals on commission only, you knownever on
                        margins for myself. I'm a banker and broker, not a gambler. Some of our
                        customers were alarmed by the news of the  big
                        increase, and insisted on bringing suit to stop it. But I'm going to urge
                        them now to let the matter drop."
                    Tom tried to look natural, and as he is an apt pupil of his brother's, he
                        succeeded fairly well. His glance, however, wouldn't fix steadily on my
                        gaze, but circled round and round it like a bat at an electric light. "To
                        tell you the truth," said he, "I'm extremely nervous as to what my brother
                        will sayand doto me, when I tell him. I hope no harm came to you through my
                        forgetfulness."
                    "None in the world," I assured him. Then I turned on Sam. "What are you doing
                        down town to-day?" said I. "Are you on your way to see me?"
                    He flushed with angry shame, reading an insinuation into my careless remark,
                        when I had not the remotest intention of reminding him that his customary
                        object in coming down town was to play the parasite and the sponge at my
                        expense. I ought to have guessed at once that there was some good reason for
                        his recovery of his refined, high-bred, gentlemanly super-sensibilities; but
                        I was not in the mood to analyze trifles, though my nerves were taking
                        careful record of them.
                    
                    "Oh, I was just calling on Tom," he replied rather haughtily.
                    Then Melville himself came in, brushing back his white tufted burnsides and
                        licking his lips and blinking his eyeslooking for all the world like a cat
                        at its toilet.
                    "Oh! ah! Blacklock!" he exclaimed, with purring cordialityand I knew he had
                        heard of the big deposit I was making. "Come into my office on your way
                        outnothing especialonly because it's always a pleasure to talk with you."
                    I saw that his effusive friendliness confirmed Tom Langdon's fear that I had
                        escaped from his brother's toils. He stared sullenly at the carpet until he
                        caught me looking at him with twinkling eyes. He made a valiant effort to
                        return my smile and succeeded in twisting his face into a knot that seemed
                        to hurt him as much as it amused me.
                    "Well, good-by, Tom," said I. "Give my regards to your brother when he lands,
                        and tell him his going away was a mistake. A man can't afford to trust his
                        important business to understrappers." This with a face free from any
                        suggestion of intending a shot at him. Then to Sam: "See you to-night, old
                        man," and I went  away, leaving Lewis looking
                        from one to the other as if he felt that there was dynamite about, but
                        couldn't locate it. I stopped with Melville to talk Coal for a few minutesat
                        my ease, and the last man on earth to be suspected of hanging by the crook
                        of one finger from the edge of the precipice.
                    I rang the Ellerslys' bell at half-past nine that evening. The butler faced
                        me with eyes not down, as they should have been, but on mine, and full of
                        the servile insolence to which he had been prompted by what he had overheard
                        in the family.
                    "Not at home, sir," he said, though I had not spoken.
                    I was preoccupied and not expecting that statement; neither had I skill, nor
                        desire to acquire skill, in reading family barometers in the faces of
                        servants. So, I was for brushing past him and entering where I felt I had as
                        much right as in my own places. He barred the way.
                    "Beg pardon, sir. Mrs. Ellersly instructed me to say no one was at home."
                    I halted, but only like an oncoming bear at the prick of an arrow.
                    "What the hell does this mean?" I exclaimed, 
                        waving him aside. At that instant Anita appeared from the little
                        reception-room a few feet away.
                    "Ohcome in!" she said cordially. "I was expecting you. Burroughs, please take
                        Mr. Blacklock's hat."
                    I followed her into the reception-room, thinking the butler had made some
                        sort of mistake.
                    "How did you come out?" she asked eagerly, facing me. "You look your natural
                        selfnot tired or worriedso it must have been not so bad as you feared."
                    "If our friend Langdon hadn't slipped away, I might not look and feel so
                        comfortable," said I. "His brother blundered, and there was no one to
                        checkmate my moves." She seemed nearer to me, more in sympathy with me than
                        ever before.
                    "I can't tell you how glad I am!"
                    Her eyes were wide and bright, as from some great excitement, and her color
                        was high. Once my attention was on it, I knew instantly that only some
                        extraordinary upheaval in that household could have produced the fever that
                        was blazing in her. Never had I seen her in any such mood as this.
                    "What is it?" I asked. "What has happened?"
                    
                    "If anything disagreeable should be said or done this evening here," she
                        said, "I want you to promise me that you'll restrain yourself, and not say
                        or do any of those things that make methat jar on me. You understand?"
                    "I am always myself," replied I. "I can't be anybody else."
                    "But you areseveral different kinds of self," she insisted. "And pleasethis
                        evening don't be that kind. It's coming into your eyes and
                        chin now."
                    I had lifted my head and looked round, probably much like the leader of a
                        horned herd at the scent of danger.
                    "Is this better?" said I, trying to look the thoughts I had no difficulty in
                        getting to the fore whenever my eyes were on her.
                    Her smile rewarded me. But it disappeared, gave place to a look of nervous
                        alarm, of terror even, at the rustling, or, rather, bustling, of skirts in
                        the hallthere was war in the very sound, and I felt it. Mrs. Ellersly
                        appeared, bearing her husband as a dejected trailer invisibly but firmly
                        coupled. She acknowledged my salutation with a stiff-necked nod, ignored my
                        extended hand. I saw that she wished to impress  upon me that she was a very grand lady indeed; but, while my ideas of
                        what constitutes a lady were at that time somewhat befogged by my
                        snobbishness, she failed dismally. She looked just what she wasa mean,
                        bad-tempered woman, in a towering rage.
                    "You have forced me, Mr. Blacklock," said she, and then I knew for just what
                        purpose that voice of hers was best adapted" to say to you what I should
                        have preferred to write. Mr. Ellersly has had brought to his ears matters in
                        connection with your private life that make it imperative that you
                        discontinue your calls here."
                    " My private life, ma'am?" I repeated. "I was not aware that I had a private
                        life."
                    "Anita, leave us alone with Mr. Blacklock," commanded her mother.
                    The girl hesitated, bent her head, and with a cowed look went slowly toward
                        the door. There she paused, and, with what seemed a great effort, lifted her
                        head and gazed at me. How I ever came rightly to interpret her look I don't
                        know, but I said: "Miss Ellersly, I've the right to insist that you stay." I
                        saw she was going to obey me, and before Mrs. Ellersly could repeat her
                        order I said: "Now, madam, if any one accuses 
                        me of having done anything that would cause you to exclude a man from your
                        house, I am ready for the liar and his lie."
                    As I spoke I was searching the weak, bad old face of her husband for an
                        explanation. Their pretense of outraged morality I rejected at onceit was
                        absurd. Neither up town nor down, nor anywhere else, had I done anything
                        that any one could regard as a breach of the code of a man of the world.
                        Then, reasoned I, they must have found some one else to help them out of
                        their financial troublessome one who, perhaps, has made this insult to me
                        the price, or part of the price, of his generosity. Who? Who hates me? In
                        instant answer, up before my mind flashed a picture of Tom Langdon and Sam
                        Ellersly arm in arm entering Lewis' office. Tom Langdon wishes to marry her;
                        and her parents wish it, too; he is the man she was confessing to me
                        aboutthese were my swift conclusions.
                    "We do not care to discuss the matter, sir," Mrs. Ellersly was replying, her
                        tone indicating that it was not fit to discuss. And this was the woman I had
                        hardly been able to treat civilly, so nauseating were her fawnings and
                        flatterings!
                    "So!" I said, ignoring her and opening my 
                        batteries full upon the old man. "You are taking orders from Mowbray Langdon
                        now. Why?"
                    As I spoke, I was conscious that there had been some change in Anita. I
                        looked at her. With startled eyes and lips apart, she was advancing toward
                        me.
                    "Anita, leave the room!" cried Mrs. Ellersly harshly, panic under the command
                        in her tones.
                    I felt rather than saw my advantage, and pressed it.
                    "You see what they are doing, Miss Ellersly," said I.
                    She passed her hands over her eyes, let her face appear again. In it there
                        was an energy of repulsion that ought to have seemed exaggerated to me then,
                        knowing really nothing of the true situation. "I understand now!" said she.
                        "Ohit isloathsome!" And her eyes blazed upon her mother.
                    "Loathsome," I echoed, dashing at my opportunity. "If you are not merely a
                        chattel and a decoy, if there is any womanhood, any self-respect in you, you
                        will keep faith with me."
                    "Anita!" cried Mrs. Ellersly. "Go to your room!"
                    
                    I had, once or twice before, heard a tone as repulsivea female dive-keeper
                        hectoring her wretched white slaves. I looked at Anita. I expected to see
                        her erect, defiant. Instead, she was again wearing that cowed look.
                    "Don't judge me too harshly," she said pleadingly to me. "I know what is
                        right and decentGod planted that too deep in me for them to be able to
                        uproot it. Butoh, they have broken my will! They have broken my will! They
                        have made me a coward, a thing!" And she hid her face in her hands and
                        sobbed.
                    Mrs. Ellersly was about to speak. I could not offer better proof of my own
                        strength of will than the fact that I, with a look and a gesture, put her
                        down. Then I said to the girl:
                    "You must choose now! Woman or thingwhich shall it be? If it is woman, then
                        you have me behind you and in front of you and around you. If it is thingGod
                        have mercy on you! Your self-respect, your pride are gonefor ever. You will
                        be like the carpet under his feet to the man whose creature you become."
                    She came and stood by me, with her back to them.
                    "If you will take me with you now," she said, 
                        "I will go. If I delay, I am lost. I shall not have the courage. And I am
                        sick, sick to death of this life here, of this hideous wait for the highest
                        bidder."
                    Her voice gained strength and her manner courage as she spoke; at the end she
                        was meeting her mother's gaze without flinching. My eyes had followed hers,
                        and my look was taking in both her mother and her father. I had long since
                        measured them, yet I could scarcely credit the confirmation of my judgment.
                        Had life been smooth and comfortable for that old couple, as it was for most
                        of their acquaintances and friends, they would have lived and died regarding
                        themselves, and regarded, as well-bred, kindly people, of the finest
                        instincts and tastes. But calamity was putting to the test the system on
                        which they had molded their apparently elegant, graceful lives. The storm
                        had ripped off the attractive covering; the framework, the reality of that
                        system, was revealed, naked and frightful.
                    "Anita, go to your room!" almost screamed the old woman, her fury tearing
                        away the last shreds of her cloak of manners.
                    "Your daughter is of age, madam," said I. "She will go where she pleases. And
                        I warn  you that you are deceived by the
                        Langdons. I am not powerless, and"here I let her have a full look into my
                        red-hot furnaces of wrath"I stop at nothing in pursuing those who oppose
                        meat nothing!"
                    Anita, staring at her mother's awful face, was shrinking and trembling as if
                        before the wicked, pale-yellow eyes and quivering, outstretched tentacles of
                        a devil-fish. Clinging to my arm, she let me guide her to the door. Her
                        mother recovered speech. "Anita!" she cried. "What are you doing? Are you
                        mad?"
                    "I think I must be out of my mind," said Anita. "But, if you try to keep me
                        here, I shall tell him allall."
                    Her voice suggested that she was about to go into hysterics. I gently urged
                        her forward. There was some sort of woman's wrap in the hall. I put it round
                        her. Before sheor Irealized it, she was in my waiting electric.
                    "Up town," I said to my man. She tried to get out.
                    "Oh, what have I done! What am I doing!" she cried, her courage oozing away.
                        "Let me outplease!"
                    "You are going with me," said I, entering and 
                        closing the door. I saw the door of the Ellersly mansion opening, saw old
                        Ellersly, bareheaded and distracted, scuttling down the steps.
                    "Go aheadfast!" I called to my man.
                    And the electric was rushing up the avenue, with the bell ringing for
                        crossings incessantly. She huddled away from me into the corner of the seat,
                        sobbing hysterically. I knew that to touch her would be fatalor to speak. So
                        I waited.
                    
                    
                        I GENTLY URGED HER FORWARD See page 259
                        
                    
                    
                
                
                
                    XXII
                    MOST UNGENTLEMANLY
                    As we neared the upper end of the park, I told my chauffeur, through the
                        tube, to enter and go slowly. Whenever a lamp flashed in at us, I had a
                        glimpse of her progress toward composurenow she was drying her eyes with the
                        bit of lace she called a handkerchief; now her bare arms were up, and with
                        graceful fingers she was arranging her hair; now she was straight and still,
                        the soft, fluffy material with which her wrap was edged drawn close about
                        her throat. I shifted to the opposite seat, for my nerves warned me that I
                        could not long control myself, if I stayed on where her garments were
                        touching me.
                    I looked away from her for the pleasure of looking at her again, of realizing
                        that my overwrought senses were not cheating me. Yes, there she was, in all
                        the luster of that magnetic beauty I can not think of even now without an
                             upblazing of the fire which is to the
                        heart what the sun is to a blind man dreaming of sight. There she was on my
                        side of the chasm that had separated usalone with meminemine! And my heart
                        dilated with pride. But a moment later came a sense of humility. Her beauty
                        intoxicated me, but her youth, her fineness, so fragile for such rough hands
                        as mine, awed and humbled me.
                    "I must be very gentle," said I to myself. "I have promised that she shall
                        never regret. God help me to keep my promise! She is mine, but only to
                        preserve and protect."
                    And that idea of responsibility in possession was new to
                        mewas to have far-reaching consequences. Now that I think of it, I believe
                        it changed the whole course of my life.
                    She was leaning forward, her elbow on the casement of the open window of the
                        brougham, her cheek against her hand; the moonlight was glistening on her
                        round, firm forearm and on her serious face. "How far, far away
                        fromeverything it seems here!" she said, her voice tuned to that soft, clear
                        light, "and how beautiful it is!" Then, addressing the moon and the shadows
                        of the trees rather than me: "I wish I could 
                        go on and onand never return toto the world."
                    "I wish we could," said I.
                    My tone was low, but she started, drew back into the brougham, became an
                        outline in the deep shadow. In another mood that might have angered me. Just
                        then it hurt me so deeply that to remember it to-day is to feel a faint ache
                        in the scar of the long-healed wound. My face was not hidden as was hers;
                        so, perhaps, she saw. At any rate, her voice tried to be friendly as she
                        said: "WellI have crossed the Rubicon. And I don't regret. It was silly of
                        me to cry. I thought I had been through so much that I was beyond such
                        weakness. But you will find me calm from now on, and reasonable."
                    "Not too reasonable, please," said I, with an attempt at her lightness. "A
                        reasonable woman is as trying as an unreasonable man."
                    "But we are going to be sensible with each other," she urged, "like two
                        friends. Aren't we?"
                    "We are going to be what we are going to be," said I. "We'll have to take
                        life as it comes."
                    That clumsy reminder set her to thinking, 
                        stirred her vague uneasiness in those strange circumstances to active alarm.
                        For presently she said, in a tone that was not so matter-of-course as she
                        had tried to make it: "We'll go now to my Uncle Frank's. He's a brother of
                        my father's. I always used to like him bestand still do. But he married a
                        woman mama thoughtqueer. They hadn't much, so he lives away up on the West
                        SideOne Hundred and Twenty-seventh Street."
                    "The wise plan, the only wise plan," said I, not so calm as she must have
                        thought me, "is to go to my partner's house and send for a minister."
                    "Not to-night," she replied nervously. "Take me to Uncle Frank's, and
                        to-morrow we can discuss what to do and how to do it."
                    "To-night," I persisted. "We must be married to-night. No more uncertainty
                        and indecision and weakness. Let us begin bravely, Anita!"
                    "To-morrow," she said. "But not to-night. I must think it over."
                    "To-night," I repeated. "To-morrow will be full of its own problems. This is
                        to-night's."
                    She shook her head, and I saw that the struggle  between us had begunthe struggle against her timidity and
                        conventionality. "No, not to-night." This in her tone for finality.
                    To argue with any woman in such circumstances would be dangerous; to argue
                        with her would have been fatal. To reason with a woman is to flatter her
                        into suspecting you of weakness and herself of strength. I told the
                        chauffeur to turn about and go slowly up town. She settled back into her
                        corner of the brougham. Neither of us spoke until we were passing Grant's
                        Tomb. Then she started out of her secure confidence in my obedience, and
                        exclaimed: "This is not the way!" And her voice had in it the hasty
                        call-to-arms.
                    "No," I replied, determined to push the panic into a rout. "As I told you,
                        our future shall be settled to-night." That in my tone for
                        finality.
                    A pause, then: "It has been settled," she said, like a
                        child that feels, yet denies, its impotence as it struggles in the
                        compelling arms of its father. "I thought until a few minutes ago that I
                        really intended to marry you. Now I see that I didn't."
                    "Another reason why we're not going to your uncle's," said I.
                    
                    She leaned forward so that I could see her face. "I can not marry you," she
                        said. "I feel humble toward you, for having misled you. But it is better
                        that youand Ishould have found out now than too late."
                    "It is too latetoo late to go back."
                    "Would you wish to marry a woman who does not love you, who loves some one
                        else, and who tells you so and refuses to marry you?" She had tried to
                        concentrate enough scorn into her voice to hide her fear.
                    "I would," said I. "And I shall. I'll not desert you, Anita, when your
                        courage and strength shall fail. I will carry you on to safety."
                    "I tell you I can not marry you," she cried, between appeal and command.
                        "There are reasonsI may not tell you. But if I might, you wouldwould take me
                        to my uncle's. I can not marry you!"
                    "That is what conventionality bids you say now," I replied. And then I
                        gathered myself together and in a tone that made me hate myself as I heard
                        it, I added slowly, each word sharp and distinct: "But what will
                        conventionality bid you say to-morrow morning, as we drive down  crowded Fifth Avenue, after a night in this
                        brougham?"
                    I could not see her, for she fell back into the darkness as sharply as if I
                        had struck her with all my force full in the face. But I could feel the
                        effect of my words upon her. I paused, not because I expected or wished an
                        answer, but because I had to steady myselfmyself, not my purpose; my purpose
                        was inflexible. I would put through what we had begun, just as I would have
                        held her and cut off her arm with my pocketknife if we had been cast away
                        alone, and I had had to do it to save her life. She was not competent to
                        decide for herself. Every problem that had ever faced her had been decided
                        by others for her. Who but me could decide for her now? I longed to plead
                        with her, longed to let her see that I was not hard-hearted, was thinking of
                        her, was acting for her sake as much as for my own. But I dared not. "She
                        would misunderstand," said I to myself. "She would think you were
                        weakening."
                    Full fifteen minutes of that frightful silence before she said: "I will go
                        where you wish." And she said it in a tone that makes me wince as I recall
                        it.
                    
                    I called my partner's address up through the tube. Again that frightful
                        silence, then she was trying to choke back the sobs. A few words I caught:
                        "They have broken my willthey have broken my will."
                    My partner lived in a big, gray-stone house that stood apart and commanded a
                        noble view of the Hudson and the Palisades. It was, in the main, a
                        reproduction of a French chteau, and such changes as the architect had made
                        in his model were not positively disfiguring, though amusing. There should
                        have been trees and shrubbery about it, but"As Mrs. B. says," Joe had
                        explained to me, "what's the use of sinking a lot of cash in a house people
                        can't see?" So there was not a bush, not a flower. InsideOne day Ball took
                        me on a tour of the art shops. "I've got a dozen corners and other big bare
                        spots to fill," said he. "Mrs. B. hates to give up money, haggles over every
                        article. I'm going to put the job through in business style." I soon
                        discovered that I had been brought along to admire his "business style," not
                        to suggest. After two hours, in which he bought in small lots several tons
                        of statuary, paintings, vases and rugs,  he
                        said, "This is too slow." He pointed his stick at a crowded corner of the
                        shop. "How much for that bunch of stuff?" he demanded. The proprietor gave
                        him a figure. "I'll close," said Joe, "if you'll give fifteen off for cash."
                        The proprietor agreed. "Now we're done," said Joe to me. "Let's go down
                        town, and maybe I can pick up what I've dropped."
                    You can imagine that interior. But don't picture it as notably worse than the
                        interior of the average New York palace. It was, if anything, better than
                        those houses, where people who deceive themselves about their lack of taste
                        have taken great pains to prevent any one else from being deceived. One
                        could hardly move in Joe's big rooms for the litter of gilded and tapestried
                        furniture, and their crowded walls made the eyes ache.
                    The appearance of the man who opened the door for Anita and me suggested that
                        our ring had roused him from a bed where he had deposited himself without
                        bothering to take off his clothes. At the sound of my voice, Ball peered out
                        of his private smoking-room, at the far end of the hall. He started forward;
                        then, seeing how I was accompanied, stopped with mouth  ajar. He had on a ragged smoking-jacket, a pair of shapeless
                        old Romeo slippers, his ordinary business waistcoat and trousers. He was
                        wearing neither tie nor collar, and a short, black pipe was between his
                        fingers. We had evidently caught the household stripped of "lugs," and sunk
                        in the down-at-the-heel slovenliness which it called "comfort." Joe was
                        crimson with confusion, and was using his free hand to stroke, alternately,
                        his shiny bald head and his heavy brown mustache. He got himself together
                        sufficiently, after a few seconds, to disappear into his den. When he came
                        out again, pipe and ragged jacket were gone, and he rushed for us in a
                        gorgeous velvet jacket with dark red facings, and a showy pair of slippers.
                    "Glad to see you, Mr. Blacklock"in his own home he always addressed every man
                        as Mister, just as "Mrs. B." always called him "Mister Ball," and he called
                        her "Missus Ball" before "company." "Come right into the front parlor.
                        Billy, turn on the electric lights."
                    Anita had been standing with her head down. She now looked round with shame
                        and terror in those expressive blue-gray eyes of hers; her delicate nostrils
                        were quivering. I hastened to  introduce Ball
                        to her. Her impulse to fly passed; her lifelong training in doing the
                        conventional thing asserted itself. She lowered her head again, murmured an
                        inaudible acknowledgment of Joe's greeting.
                    "Your wife is at home?" said I. If one was at home in the evening, the other
                        was also, and both were always there, unless they were at some theaterexcept
                        on Sunday night, when they dined at Sherry's, because many fashionable
                        people did it. They had no friends and few acquaintances. In their humbler
                        and happy days they had had many friends, but had lost them when they moved
                        away from Brooklyn and went to live, like uneasy, out-of-place visitors, in
                        their grand house, pretending to be what they longed to be, longing to be
                        what they pretended to be, and as discontented as they deserved.
                    "Oh, yes, Mrs. B.'s at home," Joe answered. "I guess she and Alva wereabout
                        to go to bed." Alva was their one child. She had been christened Malvina,
                        after Joe's mother; but when the Balls "blossomed out" they renamed her
                        Alva, which they somehow had got the impression was "smarter."
                    At Joe's blundering confession that the females  of the family were in no condition to receive, Anita said to me in a low
                        voice: "Let us go."
                    I pretended not to hear. "Rout 'em out," said I to Joe. "Then, take my
                        electric and bring the nearest parson. There's going to be a weddingright
                        here." And I looked round the long salon, with everything draped for the
                        summer departure. Joe whisked the cover off one chair, his man took off
                        another. "I'll have the women-folks down in two minutes," he cried. Then to
                        the man: "Get a move on you, Billy. Stir 'em up in the kitchen. Do the best
                        you can about supperand put a lot of champagne on the ice. That's the main
                        thing at a wedding."
                    Anita had seated herself listlessly in one of the uncovered chairs. The wrap
                        slipped back from her shoulders andhow proud I was of her! Joe gazed, took
                        advantage of her not looking up to slap me on the back and to jerk his head
                        in enthusiastic approval. Then he, too, disappeared.
                    A wait followed, during which we could hear, through the silence, excited
                        undertones from the upper floors. The words were indistinct until Joe's
                        heavy voice sent down to us an angry "No damn nonsense, I tell you. Allie's
                        got to come,  too. She's not such a fool as
                        you think. Bad examplebosh!"
                    Anita started up. "Ohpleaseplease!" she cried. "Take me awayanywhere! This is
                        dreadful."
                    It was, indeed, dreadful. If I could have had my way at just that moment, it
                        would have gone hard with "Mrs. B." and "Allie"and heavy-voiced Joe, too.
                        But I hid my feelings. "There's nowhere else to go," said I, "except the
                        brougham."
                    She sank into her chair.
                    A few minutes more of silence, and there was a rustling on the stairs. She
                        started up, trembling, looked round, as if seeking some way of escape or
                        some place to hide. Joe was in the doorway holding aside one of the
                        curtains. There entered in a beribboned and beflounced tea-gown, a pretty,
                        if rather ordinary, woman of forty, with a petulant baby face. She was
                        trying to look reserved and severe. She hardly glanced at me before
                        fastening sharp, suspicious eyes on Anita.
                    "Mrs. Ball," said I, "this is Miss Ellersly."
                    "Miss Ellersly!" she exclaimed, her face changing. And she advanced and took
                        both  Anita's hands. "Mr. Ball is so stupid,"
                        she went on, with that amusingly affected accent which is the "Sunday
                        clothes" of speech.
                    "I didn't catch the name, my dear," Joe stammered.
                    "Be off," said I, aside, to him. "Get the nearest preacher, and hustle him
                        here with his tools."
                    I had one eye on Anita all the time, and I saw her gaze follow Joe as he
                        hurried out; and her expression made my heart ache. I heard him saying in
                        the hall, "Go in, Allie. It's O K"; heard the door slam, knew we should soon
                        have some sort of minister with us.
                    "Allie" entered the drawing-room. I had not seen her in six years. I
                        remembered her unpleasantly as a great, bony, florid child, unable to stand
                        still or to sit still, or to keep her tongue still, full of aimless
                        questions and giggles and silly remarks that she and her mother thought
                        funny. I saw her now, grown into a handsome young woman, with enough beauty
                        points for an honorable mention, if not for a prizestraight and strong and
                        rounded, with a brow and a keen look out of the eyes which it seemed a pity
                        should be wasted on a woman. Her mother's looks, her  father's good sense, a personality apparently got from
                        neither, but all her own, and unusual and interesting. No wonder the Balls
                        felt toward her much as a pair of barn-swallows would feel if they were to
                        hatch out an eaglet. These quiet, tame American parents that are always
                        finding their suppressed selves, the bold, fantastic, unadmitted dreams of
                        their youth startlingly confronting them in the flesh as their own children!
                    "From what Mr. Ball said,"Mrs. Ball was gushing affectedly to Anita,"I got an
                        idea thatwell, really, I didn't know what to think."
                    Anita looked as if she were about to suffocate. Allie came to the rescue.
                        "Not very complimentary to Mr. Blacklock, mother," said she good-humoredly.
                        Then to Anita, with a simple friendliness there was no resisting: "Wouldn't
                        you like to come up to my room for a few minutes?"
                    "Oh, thank you!" responded Anita, after a quick, but thorough inspection of
                        Alva's face, to make sure she was like her voice. I had not counted on this;
                        I had been assuming that Anita would not be out of my sight until we were
                        married. It was on the tip of my tongue to interfere when she looked at
                        mefor permission to go!  "Don't keep her too
                        long," said I to Alva, and they were gone.
                    "You can't blame mereally you can't, Mr. Blacklock," Mrs. Ball began to plead
                        for herself, as soon as they were safely out of hearing. "After some
                        thingsmere hints, you understandfor I'm careful what I permit Mr. Ball to
                        say before me. I think married people can not be too
                        respectful of each other. I never tolerate vulgarity."
                    "No doubt, Joe has made me out a very vulgar person," said I, forgetting her
                        lack of humor.
                    "Oh, not at all, not at all, Mr. Blacklock," she protested, in a panic lest
                        she had done her husband damage with me. "I understand, men will be men,
                        though as a pure-minded woman, I'm sure I can't imagine why they should be."
                    "How far off is the nearest church?" I cut in.
                    "Only two blocksthat is, the Methodist church," she replied. "But I know Mr.
                        Ball will bring an Episcopalian."
                    "Why, I thought you were a devoted Presbyterian," said I, recalling how in
                        their Brooklyn days she used to insist on Joe's going twice every Sunday to
                        sleep through long sermons.
                    She looked uncomfortable. "I was reared 
                        Presbyterian," she explained confusedly, "but you know how it is in New
                        York. And when we came to live here, we got out of the habit of
                        church-going. And all Alva's little friends were Episcopalians. So I drifted
                        toward that church. I find the service so satisfyingsoelegant. Andone sees
                        there the people one sees socially."
                    "How is your culture class?" I inquired, deliberately malicious, in my
                        impatience and nervousness. "And do you still take conversation lessons?"
                    She was furiously annoyed. "Oh, those old jokes of Joe's," she said,
                        affecting disdainful amusement.
                    In fact, they were anything but jokes. On Mondays and Thursdays she used to
                        attend a class for women who, like herself, wished to be "up-to-date on
                        culture and all that sort of thing." They hired a teacher to cram them with
                        odds and ends about art and politics and the "latest literature, heavy and
                        light." On Tuesdays and Fridays she had an "indigent gentlewoman," whatever
                        that may be, come to her to teach her how to converse and otherwise conduct
                        herself according to the "standards of polite society."  Joe used to give imitations of those conversation lessons that
                        raised roars of laughter round the poker table, the louder because so many
                        of the other men had wives with the same ambitions and the same methods of
                        attaining them.
                    Mrs. Ball came back to the subject of Anita.
                    "I am glad you are going to settle with such a charming girl. She comes of
                        such a charming family. I have never happened to meet any of them. We are in
                        the West Side set, you know, while they move in the East Side set, and New
                        York is so large that one almost never meets any one outside one's own set."
                        This smooth snobbishness, said in the affected "society" tone, was as out of
                        place in her as rouge and hair-dye in a wholesome, honest old grandmother.
                    I began to pace the floor. "Can it be," I fretted aloud, "that Joe's racing
                        round looking for an Episcopalian preacher, when there was a Methodist at
                        hand?"
                    "I'm sure he wouldn't bring anything but a Church of England priest," Mrs.
                        Ball assured me loftily. "Why, Miss Ellersly wouldn't think she was married,
                        if she hadn't a priest of her own church."
                    My temper got the bit in its teeth. I stopped 
                        before her, and fixed her with an eye that must have had some fire in it.
                        "I'm not marrying a fool, Mrs. Ball," said I. "You mustn't judge her by her
                        bringing-upby her family. Children have a way of bringing themselves up, in
                        spite of damn fool parents."
                    She weakened so promptly that I was ashamed of myself. My only apology for
                        getting out of patience with her is that I had seen her seldom in the last
                        few years, had forgotten how matter-of-surface her affectation and snobbery
                        were, and how little they interfered with her being a good mother and a good
                        wife, up to the limits of her brain capacity.
                    "I'm sure, Mr. Blacklock," she said plaintively, "I only wished to say what
                        was pleasant and nice about your fiance. I know she's a lovely girl. I've
                        often admired her at the opera. She goes a great deal in Mrs. Langdon's box,
                        and Mrs. Langdon and I are together on the board of managers of the
                        Magdalene Home, and also on the board of the Hospital for Unfortunate
                        Gentlefolk." And so on, and on.
                    I walked up and down among those wrapped-up, ghostly chairs and tables and
                        cabinets and statues many times before Joe arrived with the  ministerand he was a Methodist, McCabe by
                        name. You should have seen Mrs. Ball's look as he advanced his portly form
                        and round face with its shaven upper lip into the drawing-room. She tried to
                        be cordial, but she couldn'ther mind was on Anita, and the horror that would
                        fill her when she discovered that she was to be married by a preacher of a
                        sect unknown to fashionable circles.
                    "All I ask of you," said I to him, "is that you cut it as short as possible.
                        Miss Ellersly is tried and nervous." This while we were shaking hands after
                        Joe's introduction.
                    "You can count on me, sir," said McCabe, giving my hand an extra shake before
                        dropping it. "I've no doubt, from what my young neighbor here tells me, that
                        your marriage is already made in your hearts and with all solemnity. The
                        form is an incidentimportant, but only an incident."
                    I liked that, and I liked his unaffected way of saying it. His voice had more
                        of the homely, homelike, rural twang in it than I had heard in New York in
                        many a day. I mentally doubled the fee I had intended to give him. And now
                        Alva and she were coming down the stairway.  I
                        was amazed at sight of her. Her evening dress had given place to a pretty
                        blue street suit with a short skirtwhite showing at her wrists, at her neck
                        and through slashings in the coat over her bosom; and on her head was a hat
                        to match. I looked at her feetthe slippers had been replaced by boots. "And
                        they're just right for her," said Alva, who was following my glance, "though
                        I'm not so tall as she."
                    But what amazed me most, and delighted me, was that she seemed to be almost
                        in good spirits. It was evident she had formed with Joe's daughter one of
                        those sudden friendships so great and so vivid that they rarely lived long
                        after the passing of the heat of the emergency that bred them. Mrs. Ball saw
                        it, also, and was straightway giddied into a sort of ecstasy. You can
                        imagine the visions it conjured. I've no doubt she talked house on the east
                        side of the park to Joe that very night, before she let him sleep. However,
                        Anita's face was serious enough when we took our places before the minister,
                        with his little, black-bound book open. And as he read in a voice that was
                        genuinely impressive those words that no voice could make unimpressive, I
                        saw her paleness blanch into pallor, saw the dusk  creep round her eyes until they were like stars waning
                        somberly before the gray face of dawn. When they closed and her head began
                        to sway, I steadied her with my arm. And so we stood, I with my arm round
                        her, she leaning lightly against my shoulder. Her answers were mere
                        movements of the lips.
                    At the end, when I kissed her cheek, she said: "Is it over?"
                    "Yes," McCabe answeredshe was looking at him. "And I wish you all happiness,
                        Mrs. Blacklock."
                    At that name, her new name, she stared at him with great wondering eyes; then
                        her form relaxed. I carried her to a chair. Joe came with a glass of
                        champagne; she drank some of it, and it brought life back to her face, and
                        some color. With a naturalness that deceived even me for the moment, she
                        smiled up at Joe as she handed him the glass. "Is it bad luck," she asked,
                        "for me to be the first to drink my own health?" And she stood, looking
                        tranquilly at every oneexcept me.
                    I took McCabe into the hall and paid him off.
                    When we came back, I said: "Now we must be going."
                    
                    "Oh, but surely you'll stay for supper!" cried Joe's wife.
                    "No," replied I, in a tone that made it impossible to insist. "We appreciate
                        your kindness, but we've imposed on it enough." And I shook hands with her
                        and with Allie and the minister, and, linking Joe's arm in mine, made for
                        the door. I gave the necessary directions to my chauffeur while we were
                        waiting for Anita to come down the steps. Joe's daughter was close beside
                        her, and they kissed each other goodby, Alva on the verge of tears, Anita
                        not suggesting any emotion of any sort. "To-morrowsure," Anita said to her.
                        And she answered: "Yes, indeedas soon as you telephone me." And so we were
                        off, a shower of rice rattling on the roof of the broughamthe slatternly
                        man-servant had thrown it from the midst of the group of servants.
                    Neither of us spoke. I watched her face without seeming to do so, and by the
                        light of occasional street lamps saw her studying me furtively. At last she
                        said: "I wish to go to my uncle's now."
                    "We are going home," said I.
                    "But the house will be shut up," said she, 
                        "and every one will be in bed. It's nearly midnight. Besides, they might
                        not" She came to a full stop.
                    "We are going home," I repeated. "To the Willoughby."
                    She gave me a look that was meant to scorchand it did. But I showed at the
                        surface no sign of how I was wincing and shrinking.
                    She drew farther into her corner, and out of its darkness came, in a low
                        voice: "How I hate you!" like the whisper of a bullet.
                    I kept silent until I had control of myself. Then, as if talking of a matter
                        that had been finally and amicably settled, I began: "The apartment isn't
                        exactly ready for us, but Joe's just about now telephoning my man that we
                        are coming, and telephoning your people to send your maid down there."
                    "I wish to go to my uncle's," she repeated.
                    "My wife will go with me," said I quietly and gently. "I am considerate of
                            her, not of her unwise impulses."
                    A long pause, then from her, in icy calmness: "I am in your power just now.
                        But I warn you that, if you do not take me to my uncle's, you will wish you
                        had never seen me."
                    
                    "I've wished that many times already," said I sadly. "I've wished it from the
                        bottom of my heart this whole evening, when step by step fate has been
                        forcing me on to do things that are even more hateful to me than to you. For
                        they not only make me hate myself, but make you hate me, too." I laid my
                        hand on her arm and held it there, though she tried to draw away. "Anita," I
                        said, "I would do anything for youlive for you, die for you. But there's
                        that something inside meyou've felt it; and when it says 'must,' I can't
                        disobeyyou know I can't. And, though you might break my heart, you could not
                        break that will. It's as much my master as it is yours."
                    "We shall seeto-morrow," she said.
                    "Do not put me to the test," I pleaded. Then I added what I knew to be true:
                        "But you will not. You know it would take some one stronger than your uncle,
                        stronger than your parents, to swerve me from what I believe right for you
                        and for me." I had no fear for "to-morrow." The hour when she could defy me
                        had passed.
                    A long, long silence, the electric speeding southward under the arching trees
                        of the West Drive. I remember it was as we skirted the  lower end of the Mall that she said evenly: "You have made me
                        hate you so that it terrifies me. I am afraid of the consequences that must
                        come to you and to me."
                    "And well you may be," I answered gently. "For you've seen enough of me to
                        get at least a hint of what I would do, if goaded to it. Hate is terrible,
                        Anita, but love can be more terrible."
                    At the Willoughby she let me help her descend from the electric, waited until
                        I sent it away, walked beside me into the building. My man, Sanders, had
                        evidently been listening for the elevator; the door opened without my
                        ringing, and there he was, bowing low. She acknowledged his welcome with
                        that regard for "appearances" that training had made instinctive. In the
                        center of myourdrawing-room table was a mass of fresh white roses. "Where
                        did you get 'em?" I asked him, in an aside.
                    "The elevator boy's brother, sir," he replied, "works in the florist's shop
                        just across the street, next to the church. He happened to be down stairs
                        when I got your message, sir. So I was able to get a few flowers. I'm sorry,
                        sir, I hadn't a little more time."
                    
                    "You've done noble," said I, and I shook hands with him warmly.
                    Anita was greeting those flowers as if they were a friend suddenly appearing
                        in a time of need. She turned now and beamed on Sanders.
                    "Thank you," she said; "thank you." And Sanders was hers.
                    "Anything I can doma'amsir?" asked Sanders.
                    "Nothingexcept send my maid as soon as she comes," she replied.
                    "I shan't need you," said I.
                    "Mr. Monson is still here," he said, lingering.
                    "Shall I send him away, sir, or do you wish to see him?"
                    "I'll speak to him myself in a moment," I answered.
                    When Sanders was gone, she seated herself and absently played with the
                        buttons of her glove.
                    "Shall I bring Monson?" I asked. "You know, he's myfactotum."
                    "I do not wish to see him," she answered.
                    "You do not like him?"
                    After a brief hesitation she answered, "No." Not for worlds would she just
                        then have admitted,  even to herself, that the
                        cause of her dislike was her knowledge of his habit of tattling, with
                        suitable embroideries, his lessons to me.
                    I restrained a strong impulse to ask her why, for instinct told me she had
                        some especial reason that somehow concerned me. I said merely: "Then I shall
                        get rid of him."
                    "Not on my account," she replied indifferently. "I care nothing about him one
                        way or the other."
                    "He goes at the end of his month," said I.
                    She was now taking off her gloves. "Before your maid comes," I went on, "let
                        me explain about the apartment. This room and the two leading out of it are
                        yours. My own suite is on the other side of our private hall there."
                    She colored high, paled. I saw that she did not intend to speak.
                    I stood awkwardly, waiting for something further to come into my own head.
                        "Good night," said I finally, as if I were taking leave of a formal
                        acquaintance at the end of a formal call.
                    She did not answer. I left the room, closing the door behind me. I paused an
                        instant, heard the key click in the lock. And I burned in a  hot flush of shame that she should be
                        thinking thus basely of meand with good cause. How could she know, how
                        appreciate even if she had known? "You've had to cut deep," said I to
                        myself. "But the wounds'll heal, though it may take longvery long." And I
                        went on my way, not wholly downcast.
                    I joined Monson in my little smoking-room. "Congratulate you," he began, with
                        his nasty, supercilious grin, which of late had been getting on my nerves
                        severely.
                    "Thanks," I replied curtly, paying no attention to his outstretched hand. "I
                        want you to put a notice of the marriage in to-morrow morning's Herald."
                    
                    "Give me the factsclergyman's nameplace, and so on," said he.
                    "Unnecessary," I answered. "Just our names and the datethat's all. You'd
                        better step lively. It's late, and it'll be too late if you delay."
                    With an irritating show of deliberation he lit a fresh cigarette before
                        setting out. I heard her maid come. After about an hour I went into the
                        hallno light through the transoms of her suite. I returned to my own part of
                        the  flat and went to bed in the spare room to
                        which Sanders had moved my personal belongings. That day which began in
                        disasterin what a blaze of triumph it had ended! Anitamy wife, and under my
                        roof! I slept with good conscience. I had earned sleep.
                
                
                
                    XXIII
                    "She has Chosen!"
                    Joe got to the office rather later than usual the next morning. They told him
                        I was already there, but he wouldn't believe it until he had come into my
                        private den and with his own eyes had seen me. "Well, I'm jiggered!" said
                        he. "It seems to have made less impression on you than it did on us. My
                        missus and the little un wouldn't let me go to bed till after two. They sat
                        on and on, questioning and discussing."
                    I laughedpartly because I knew that Joe, like most men, was as full of gossip
                        and as eager for it as a convalescent old maid, and that, whoever might have
                        been the first at his house to make the break for bed, he was the last to
                        leave off talking. But the chief reason for my laugh was that, just before
                        he came in on me, I was almost pinching myself to see whether I was dreaming
                        it all, and he had made me feel how vividly true it was.
                    
                    "Why don't you ease down, Blacklock?" he went on. "Everything's smooth. The
                        businessat least, my end of it, and I suppose your end, toowas never better,
                        never growing so fast. You could go off for a week or two, just as well as
                        not. I don't know of a thing that can prevent you."
                    And he honestly thought it, so little did I let him know about the larger
                        enterprises of Blacklock and Company. I could have spoken a dozen words, and
                        he would have been floundering like a caught fish in a basket. There are
                        mena very fewwho work more swiftly and more surely when they know they're on
                        the brink of ruin; but not Joe. One glimpse of our real National Coal
                        account, and all my power over him couldn't have kept him from showing the
                        whole Street that Blacklock and Company was shaky. And whenever the Street
                        begins to think a man is shaky, he must be strong indeed to escape the fate
                        of the wolf that stumbles as it runs with the pack.
                    "No holiday at present, Joe," was my reply to his suggestion. "Perhaps the
                        second week in July; but our marriage was so sudden that we haven't had the
                        time to get ready for a trip."
                    
                    "Yesit was sudden, wasn't it?" said Joe, curiosity
                        twitching his nose like a dog's at scent of a rabbit. "How did it happen?"
                    "Oh, I'll tell you sometime," replied I. "I must work now."
                    And work a-plenty there was. Before me rose a sheaf of clamorous telegrams
                        from our out-of-town customers and our agents; and soon my anteroom was
                        crowded with my local following, sore and shorn. I suppose a score or more
                        of the habitual heavy plungers on my tips were ruined and hundreds of others
                        were thousands and tens of thousands out of pocket. "Do you want me to talk
                        to these people?" inquired Joe, with the kindly intention of giving me a
                        chance to shift the unpleasant duty to him.
                    "Certainly not," said I. "When the place is jammed, let me know. I'll jack
                        'em up."
                    It made Joe uneasy for me even to talk of using my "language"he would have
                        crawled from the Battery to Harlem to keep me from using it on him. So he
                        silently left me alone. My system of dealing face to face with the
                        speculating and investing public had many great advantages over that of all
                        the other big operatorstheir system of hiding behind cleverly-contrived  screens and slaughtering the decoyed public
                        without showing so much as the tip of a gun or nose that could be
                        identified. But to my method there was a disadvantage that made men, who
                        happened to have more hypocrisy and less nerve than I, shrink from it. When
                        one of my tips miscarried, down upon me would swoop the bad losers in a body
                        to give me a turbulent quarter of an hour.
                    Toward ten o'clock, my boy came in and said: "Mr. Ball thinks it's about time
                        for you to see some of these people."
                    I went into the main room, where the tickers and blackboards were. As I
                        approached through my outer office I could hear the noise the crowd was
                        makingas they cursed me. If you want to rile the true inmost soul of the
                        average human being, don't take his reputation or his wife; just cause him
                        to lose money. There were among my speculating customers many with the
                        eventenored sporting instinct. These were bearing their losses with
                        philosophynone of them had swooped on me. Of the perhaps three hundred who
                        had come to ease their anguish by tongue-lashing me, every one was a bad
                        loser and was mad through and throughthose who had lost  a few hundred dollars were as infuriated as those whom my
                        misleading tip had cost thousands and tens of thousands; those whom I had
                        helped to win all they had in the world were more savage than those new to
                        my following.
                    I took my stand in the doorway, a step up from the floor of the main room. I
                        looked all round until I had met each pair of angry eyes. They say I can
                        give my face an expression that is anything but agreeable; such talent as I
                        have in that direction I exerted then. The instant I appeared a silence
                        fell; but I waited until the last pair of claws drew in. Then I said, in the
                        quiet tone the army officer uses when he tells the mob that the machine guns
                        will open up in two minutes by the watch: "Gentlemen, in the effort to
                        counteract my warning to the public, the Textile crowd rocketed the stock
                        yesterday. Those who heeded my warning and sold got excellent prices. Those
                        who did not should sell to-day. Not even the powerful interests behind
                        Textile can long maintain yesterday's prices."
                    A wave of restlessness passed over the crowd. Many shifted their eyes from me
                        and began to murmur.
                    I raised my voice slightly as I went on: "The 
                        speculators, the gamblers, are the only people who were hurt. Those who sold
                        what they didn't have are paying for their folly. I have no sympathy for
                        them. Blacklock and Company wishes none such in its following, and seizes
                        every opportunity to weed them out. We are in business only for the bona
                        fide investing public, and we are stronger with that public to-day than we
                        have ever been."
                    Again I looked from coward to coward of that mob, changed from three hundred
                        strong to three hundred weak. Then I bowed and withdrew, leaving them to
                        mutter and disperse. I felt well content with the trend of eventsI who
                        wished to impress the public and the financiers that I had broken with
                        speculation and speculators, could I have had a better than this unexpected
                        opportunity sharply to define my new course? And as Textiles, unsupported,
                        fell toward the close of the day, my content rose toward my normal high
                        spirits. There was no whisper in the Street that I was in trouble; on the
                        contrary, the idea was gaining ground that I had really long ceased to be a
                        stock gambler and deserved a much better reputation than I had. Reputation
                        is a matter of diplomacy rather than  of
                        desert. In all my career I was never less entitled to a good reputation than
                        in those June days; yet the disastrous gambling follies, yes, and worse, I
                        then committed, formed the secure foundation of my reputation for
                        conservatism and square dealing. From that time dates the decline of the
                        habit the newspapers had of speaking of me as "Black Matt" or "Matt"
                        Blacklock. In them, and therefore in the public mind, I began to figure as
                        "Mr. Blacklock, a recognized authority on finance," and such information as
                        I gave out ceased to be described as "tips" and was respectfully referred to
                        as "indications."
                    No doubt, my marriage had something to do with this. Probably one couldn't
                        borrow any great amount of money in New York directly and solely on the
                        strength of a fashionable marriage; but, so all-pervading is the
                        snobbishness there, one can get, by making a fashionable marriage, any
                        quantity of that deferential respect from rich people which is, in some
                        circumstances, easily convertible into cash and credit.
                    I searched with a good deal of anxiety, as you may imagine, the early
                        editions of the afternoon papers. The first article my eye chanced upon was
                        a mere wordy elaboration of the brief and 
                        vague announcement Monson had put in the Herald. Later
                        came an interview with old Ellersly. "Not at all mysterious," he had said to
                        the reporters. "Mr. Blacklock found he would have to go abroad on business
                        soonhe didn't know just when. On the spur of the moment they decided to
                        marry." A good enough story, and I confirmed it when I admitted the
                        reporters. I read their estimates of my fortune and of Anita's with rather
                        bitter amusementshe whose father was living from hand to mouth; I who could
                        not have emerged from a forced settlement with enough to enable me to keep a
                        trap. Still, when one is rich, the reputation of being rich is heavily
                        expensive; but when one is poor the reputation of being rich can be made a
                        wealth-giving asset.
                    Even as I was reading these fables of my millions, there lay on the desk
                        before me a statement of the exact posture of my affairsa memorandum made by
                        myself for my own eyes, and to be burned as soon as I mastered it. On the
                        face of the figures the balance against me was appalling. My chief asset,
                        indeed my only asset that measured up toward my debts, was my Coal stocks,
                        those bought and those contracted for; and, while their par value far
                        exceeded my liabilities,  they had to appear
                        in my memorandum at their actual market value on that day. I looked at the
                        calendarseventeen days until the reorganization scheme would be announced,
                        only seventeen days!
                    Less than three business weeks, and I should be out of the storm and sailing
                        safer and smoother seas than I had ever known. "To indulge in vague hopes is bad," thought I, "but not to indulge in a hope, especially when one has only it between him and
                        the pit." And I proceeded to plan on the not unwarranted assumption that my
                        Coal hope was a present reality. Indeed, what alternative had I? To put it
                        among the future's uncertainties was to put myself among the utterly ruined.
                        Using as collateral the Coal stocks I had bought outright, I borrowed more
                        money, and with it went still deeper into the Coal venture. Everything or
                        nothing!since the chances in my favor were a thousand, to practically none
                        against me. Everything or nothing!since only by staking everything could I
                        possibly save anything at all.
                    The morality of these and many of my other doings in those days will no doubt
                        be condemned. By no one more severely than by myselfnow  that the necessities which then compelled me have passed.
                        There is no subject on which men talk and think, more humbug than on that
                        subject of morality. As a matter of fact, except in those personal relations
                        that are governed by the affections, what is morality but the mandate of
                        policy, and what is policy but the mandate of necessity? My criticism of
                        Roebuck and the other "high financiers" is not upon their morality, but upon
                        their policy, which is short-sighted and stupid and base. The moral
                        difference between me and them is that, while I merely assert and maintain
                        my right to live, they deny the right of any but themselves to live. I say I
                        criticize them; but that does not mean that I sympathize with the public at
                        large in its complainings against them. The public, its stupidity and
                        cupidity, creates the conditions that breed and foster these men. A rotten
                        cheese reviling the maggots it has bred!
                    In those very hours when I was obeying the imperative law of
                        self-preservation, was clutching at every log that floated by me regardless
                        of whether it was my property or not so long as it would help me keep my
                        head above waterwhat was going on all round me? In every  office of the down town districtmerchant,
                        banker, broker, lawyer, man of commerce or financewas not every busy brain
                        plotting, not self-preservation but pillage and sackplotting to increase the
                        cost of living for the masses of men by slipping a little tax here and a
                        little tax there on to everything by which men live? All along the line
                        between the farm or mine or shop and the market, at every one of the
                        toll-gates for the collection of just charges, these big
                        financiers, backed up by the big lawyers and the rascally public officials,
                        had an agent in charge to collect on each passing article more than was
                        honestly due. A thousand subtle ways of levying, all combining to pour in
                        upon the few the torrents of unjust wealth. I laugh when I read of laboring
                        men striking for higher wages. Poor, ignorant foolsthey almost deserve their
                        fate. They had better be concerning themselves with a huge, universal strike
                        at the polls for lower prices. What will it avail to get higher wages, as
                        long as the masters control and recoup on the prices of all the things for
                        which those wages must be spent?
                    I lived in Wall Street, in its atmosphere of the practical morality of
                        "finance." On every  side swindling
                        operations, great and small; operations regarded as right through
                        long-established custom; dishonest or doubtful operations on the way to
                        becoming established by custom as "respectable." No man's title to anything
                        conceded unless he had the brains to defend it. There was a time when it
                        would have been regarded as wildly preposterous and viciously immoral to
                        deny property rights in human beings. There may come a timewho knows?when
                        "high finance's" denial of a moral right to property of any kind may cease
                        to be regarded as wicked; may become a generally accepted canon, as our
                        Socialist friends predict. However, I attempt no excuses for myself; I need
                        them no more than a judge in the Dark Ages needed to apologize for ordering
                        a witch to the stake. I could no more have done differently than a fish
                        could breathe on land or a man under water. I did as all the others didand I
                        had the justification of necessity. Right of might being the prevailing
                        code, when men set upon me with pistols, I met them with pistols, not with
                        the discarded and antiquated weapons of sermon and prayer and the law.
                    And I thought extremely well of myself and of 
                        my pistols that June afternoon, as I was hurrying up town the moment the
                        day's settlement on 'Change was finished. I had sent out my daily letter to
                        investors, and its tone of confidence was genuineI knew that hundreds of
                        customers of a better class would soon be flocking in to take the places of
                        those I had been compelled to teach a lesson in the vicissitudes of
                        gambling. With a light heart and the physical feeling of a football player
                        in training, I sped toward home.
                    Home! For the first time since I was a squat little slip of a shaver the word
                        had a personal meaning for me. Perhaps, if the only other home of mine had
                        been less uninviting, I should not have looked forward with such high
                        beating of the heart to that cold home Anita was making for me. No, I
                        withdraw that. It is fellows like me, to whom kindly looks and unbought
                        attentions are as unfamiliar as flowers to the Arcticit is men like me that
                        appreciate and treasure and warm up under the faintest show or shadowy
                        suggestion of the sunshine of sentiment. I'd be a little ashamed to say how
                        much money I handed out to beggars and street gamins that day. I had a home
                        to go to!
                    As my electric drew up at the Willoughby, a 
                        carriage backed to make room for it. I recognized the horses and the
                        coachman and the crest.
                    "How long has Mrs. Ellersly been with my wife?" I asked the elevator boy, as
                        he was taking me up.
                    "About half an hour, sir," he answered. "But Mr. EllersleyI took up his card
                        before lunch, and he's still there."
                    Instead of using my key, I rang the bell, and when Sanders opened, I said:
                        "Is Mrs. Blacklock in?" in a voice loud enough to penetrate to the
                        drawing-room.
                    As I had hoped, Anita appeared. Her dress told me that her trunks had comeshe
                        had sent for her trunks! "Mother and father are here," said she, without
                        looking at me.
                    I followed her into the drawing-room and, for the benefit of the servants,
                        Mr. and Mrs. Ellersly and I greeted each other courteously, though Mrs.
                        Ellersly's eyes and mine met in a glance like the flash of steel on steel.
                        "We were just going," said she, and then I felt that I had arrived in the
                        midst of a tempest of uncommon fury.
                    "You must stop and make me a visit," protested I, with
                        elaborate politeness. To myself I  was
                        assuming that they had come to "make up and be friends"and resume their
                        places at the trough.
                    She was moving toward the door, the old man in her wake. Neither of them
                        offered to shake hands with me; neither made pretense of saying good-by to
                        Anita, standing by the window like a pillar of ice. I had closed the
                        drawing-room door behind me, as I entered. I was about to open it for them
                        when I was restrained by what I saw working in the old woman's face. She had
                        set her will on escaping from my loathed presence without a "scene;" but her
                        rage at having been outgeneraled was too fractious for her will.
                    "You scoundrel!" she hissed, her whole body shaking and her
                        carefully-cultivated appearance of the gracious evening of youth swallowed
                        up in a black cyclone of hate. "You gutter-plant! God will punish you for
                        the shame you have brought upon us!"
                    I opened the door and bowed, without a word, without even the desire to
                        return insult for insulthad not Anita evidently again and finally rejected
                        them and chosen me? As they passed into the private hall I rang for Sanders
                        to come  and let them out. When I turned back
                        into the drawing-room, Anita was seated, was reading a book. I waited until
                        I saw she was not going to speak. Then I said: "What time will you have
                        dinner?" But my face must have been expressing some of the joy and gratitude
                        that filled me. "She has chosen!" I was saying to myself over and over.
                    "Whenever you usually have it," she replied, without looking up.
                    "At seven o'clock, then. You had better tell Sanders."
                    I rang for him and went into my little smoking-room. She had resisted her
                        parents' final appeal to her to return to them. She had cast in her lot with
                        me. "The rest can be left to time," said I to myself. And, reviewing all
                        that had happened, I let a wild hope send tenacious roots deep into me. How
                        often ignorance is a blessing; how often knowledge would make the step
                        falter and the heart quail!
                
                
                
                    XXIV
                    Blacklock Attends Family Prayers
                    During dinner I bore the whole burden of conversationthough burden I did not
                        find it. Like most close-mouthed men, I am extremely talkative. Silence sets
                        people to wondering and prying; he hides his secrets best who hides them at
                        the bottom of a river of words. If my spirits are high, I often talk aloud
                        to myself when there is no one convenient. And how could my spirits be
                        anything but high, with her sitting there opposite me, mine, mine for better
                        or for worse, through good and evil reportmy wife!
                    She was only formally responsive, reluctant and brief in answers,
                        volunteering nothing. The servants waiting on us no doubt laid her manner to
                        shyness; I understood it, or thought I didbut I was not troubled. It is as
                        natural for me to hope as to breathe; and with my knowledge of character,
                        how could I take seriously the moods and impulses of one whom I regarded as
                        a childlike  like girl, trained to false pride
                        and false ideals? "She has chosen to stay with me," said I to myself.
                        "Actions count, not words or manner. A few days or weeks, and she will be
                        herself, and mine." And I went gaily on with my efforts to interest her, to
                        make her smile and forget the rle she had commanded herself to play. Nor was
                        I wholly unsuccessful. Again and again I thought I saw a gleam of interest
                        in her eyes or the beginnings of a smile about that sweet mouth of hers. I
                        was careful not to overdo my part.
                    As soon as we finished dessert I said: "You loathe cigar smoke, so I'll hide
                        myself in my den. Sanders will bring you the cigarettes." I had myself
                        telephoned for a supply of her kind early in the day.
                    She made a polite protest for the benefit of the servants; but I was firm,
                        and left her free to think things over alone in the drawing-room"your
                        sitting-room," I called it. I had not finished a small cigar when there came
                        a timid knock at my door. I threw away the cigar and opened. "I thought it
                        was you," said I. "I'm familiar with the knocks of all the others. And this
                        was newlike a summer wind tapping with  a
                        flower for admission at a closed window." And I laughed with a little
                        raillery, and she smiled, colored, tried to seem cold and hostile again.
                    "Shall I go with you to your sitting-room?" I went on. "Perhaps the cigar
                        smoke here"
                    "No, no," she interrupted; "I don't really mind cigarsand the windows are
                        wide open. Besides, I came for only a momentjust to say"
                    As she cast about for words to carry her on, I drew up a chair for her. She
                        looked at it uncertainly, seated herself. "When mama was herethis
                        afternoon," she went on, "she was urging me toto do what she wished. And
                        after she had used several arguments, she said something II've been thinking
                        it over, and it seemed I ought in fairness to tell you."
                    I waited.
                    "She said: 'In a few days more he'that meant you'he will be ruined. He
                        imagines the worst is over for him, when in fact they've only begun."'
                    "They!" I repeated. "Who are 'they'? The Langdons?"
                    "I think so," she replied with an effort. "She 
                        did not sayI've told you her exact wordsas far as I can."
                    "Well," said I, "and why didn't you go?"
                    She pressed her lips firmly together. Finally, with a straight look into my
                        eyes, she replied. "I shall not discuss that. You probably misunderstand,
                        but that is your own affair."
                    "You believed what she said about me, of course," said I.
                    "I neither believed nor disbelieved," she answered indifferently, as she rose
                        to go. "It does not interest me."
                    "Come here," said I.
                    I waited until she reluctantly joined me at the window. I pointed to the
                        steeple of the church across the way. "You could as easily throw down that
                        steeple by pushing against it with your bare hands," I said to her, "as
                        'they,' whoever they are, could put me down. They might take away my money.
                        But if they did, they would only be giving me a lesson that would teach me
                        how more easily to get it back. I am not a bundle of stock certificates or a
                        bag of money. I amhere," and I tapped my forehead.
                    She forced a faint, scornful smile. She did not wish me to see her belief of
                        what I said.
                    
                    "You may think that is vanity," I went on. "But you will learn, sooner or
                        later, the difference between boasting and simple statement of fact. You
                        will learn that I do not boast. What I said is no more a boast than for a
                        man with legs to say, 'I can walk.' Because you have known only legless men,
                        you exaggerate the difficulty of walking. It's as easy for me to make money
                        as it is for some people to spend it."
                    It is hardly necessary for me to say I was not insinuating anything against
                        her people. But she was just then supersensitive on the subject, though I
                        did not suspect it. She flushed hotly. "You will not have any cause to sneer
                        at my people on that account hereafter," she said. "I settled that to-day."
                    "I was not sneering at them," I protested. "I wasn't even thinking of them.
                        Andyou must know that it's a favor to me for anybody to ask me to do
                        anything that will please youAnita!"
                    She made a gesture of impatience. "I see I'd better tell you why I did not go
                        with them to-day. I insisted that they give back all they have taken from
                        you. And when they refused, I refused to go."
                    "I don't care why you refused, or imagined  you
                        refused," said I. "I am content with the fact that you are here."
                    "But you misunderstand it," she answered coldly.
                    "I don't understand it, I don't misunderstand it," was my reply. "I accept
                        it."
                    She turned away from the window, drifted out of the roomyou, who love or at
                        least have loved, can imagine how it made me feel to see Her moving about in those rooms of mine.
                    While the surface of my mind was taken up with her, I must have been
                        thinking, underneath, of the warning she had brought; for, perhaps half or
                        three-quarters of an hour after she left, I was suddenly whirled out of my
                        reverie at the window by a thought like a pistol thrust into my face. "What
                        if 'they' should include Roebuck!" And just as a man begins to defend
                        himself from a sudden danger before he clearly sees what the danger is, so I
                        began to act before I even questioned whether my suspicion was plausible or
                        absurb. I went into the hall, rang the bell, slipped a light-weight coat
                        over my evening dress and put on a hat. When Sanders appeared, I said: "I'm
                        going out for a few minutesperhaps an hourif any one should ask." A moment
                             later I was in a hansom and on the way to
                        Roebuck's.
                    When Roebuck lived near Chicago, he had a huge house, a sort of crude palace
                        such as so many of our millionaires built for themselves in the first
                        excitement of their new wealtha house with porches and balconies and towers
                        and minarets and all sorts of gingerbread effects to compel the eye of the
                        passer-by. But when he became enormously rich, so rich that his name was one
                        of the synonyms for wealth, so rich that people said "rich as Roebuck" where
                        they used to say "rich as Croesus," he cut away every kind of ostentation,
                        and avoided attention.
                    He took advantage of his having to remove to New York where his vast
                        interests centered; he bought a small and commonplace and, for a rich man,
                        even mean house in East Fifty-Second Streetone of a row, and an almost dingy
                        looking row at that. There he had an establishment a man with one-fiftieth
                        of his fortune would have felt like apologizing for. To his few intimates
                        who were intimate enough to question him about his come-down from his
                        Chicago splendors he explained that he was seeing with clearer eyes his  responsibilities as a steward of the Lord,
                        that luxury was sinful, that no man had a right to waste the Lord's money.
                    The general theory about him was that advancing years had developed his
                        natural closeness into the stingiest avariciousness. But my notion is he was
                        impelled by the fear of exciting envy, by the fear of assassinationthe fear
                        that made his eyes roam restlessly whenever strangers were near him, and so
                        dried up the inside of his body that his dry tongue was constantly sliding
                        along his dry lips. I have seen a convict stand in the door of his cell and,
                        though it was impossible that any one could be behind him, look nervously
                        over his shoulder every moment or so. Roebuck had the same trickonly his
                        dread, I suspect, was not the officers of the law, even of the divine law,
                        but the many, many victims of his merciless execution of "the Lord's will."
                    This state of mind is not uncommon among the very rich men, especially those
                        who have come up from poverty. Those who have inherited great wealth, and
                        have always been used to it, get into the habit of looking upon the mass of
                        mankind as inferiors, and move about with no greater sense of peril than a
                        man has in venturing  among a lot of dogs with
                        tails wagging. But those who were born poor and have risen under the
                        stimulus of a furious envy of the comfortable and the rich, fancy that
                        everybody who isn't rich has the same savage hunger that they themselves
                        had, and is ready to use similar desperate methods in gratifying it. Thus,
                        where the rich of the Langdon sort are supercilious, the rich of the Roebuck
                        sort are nervous and often become morbid on the subject of assassination as
                        they grow richer and richer.
                    The door of Roebuck's house was opened for me by a maida man-servant would
                        have been a "sinful" luxury, a man-servant might be the hireling of plotters
                        against his life. I may add that she looked the cheap maid-of-all-work, and
                        her manners were of the free and fresh sort that indicates a feeling that as
                        high, or higher, wages, and less to do could be got elsewhere.
                    "I don't think you can see Mr. Roebuck," she said.
                    "Take my card to him," I ordered, "and I'll wait in the parlor."
                    "Parlor's in use," she retorted with a sarcastic grin, which I was soon to
                        understand.
                    So I stood by the old-fashioned coat and hat 
                        rack while she went in at the hall door of the back parlor. Soon Roebuck
                        himself came out, his glasses on his nose, a family Bible under his arm.
                        "Glad to see you, Matthew," said he with saintly kindliness, giving me a
                        friendly hand. "We are just about to offer up our evening prayer. Come right
                        in."
                    I followed him into the back parlor. Both it and the front parlor were
                        lighted; in a sort of circle extending into both rooms were all the Roebucks
                        and the four servants. "This is my friend, Matthew Blacklock," said he, and
                        the Roebucks in the circle gravely bowed. He drew up a chair for me, and we
                        seated ourselves. Amid a solemn hush, he read a chapter from the big Bible
                        spread out upon his lean lap. My glance wandered from face to face of the
                        Roebucks, as plainly dressed as were their servants. I was able to look
                        freely, mine being the only eyes not bent upon the floor.
                    It was the first time in my life that I had witnessed family prayers. When I
                        was a boy at home, my mother had taken literally the Scriptural injunction
                        to pray in secretin a closet, I think the passage of the Bible said. Many
                        times each day she used to retire to a closet under the  stairway and spend from one to twenty minutes shut in there.
                        But we had no family prayers. I was therefore deeply interested in what was
                        going on in those countrified parlors of one of the richest and most
                        powerful men in the worldand this right in the heart of that district of New
                        York where palaces stand in rows and in blocks, and where such few churches
                        as there are resemble social clubs for snubbing climbers and patronizing the
                        poor.
                    It was astonishing how much every Roebuck in that circle, even the old lady,
                        looked like Roebuck himselfthe same smug piety, the same underfed appearance
                        that, by the way, more often indicates a starved soul than a starved body.
                        One differencewhere his face had the look of power that compels respect and,
                        to the shrewd, reveals relentless strength relentlessly used, the
                        expressions of the others were simply small and mean and frost-nipped. And
                        that is the rulethe second generation of a plutocrat inherits, with his
                        money, the meanness that enabled him to hoard it, but not the scope that
                        enabled him to make it.
                    So absorbed was I in the study of the influence of his terrible
                        master-character upon  those closest to it,
                        that I started when he said: "Let us pray." I followed the example of the
                        others, and knelt. The audible prayer was offered up by his oldest daughter,
                        Mrs. Wheeler, a widow. Roebuck punctuated each paragraph in her series of
                        petitions with a loudly-whispered amen. When she prayed for "the stranger
                        whom Thou has led seemingly by chance into our little circle," he whispered
                        the amen more fervently and repeated it. And well he might, the old robber
                        and assassin by proxy! The prayer ended and, us on our feet, the servants
                        withdrew; then, awkardly, all the family except Roebuck. That is, they
                        closed the doors between the two rooms and left him and me alone in the
                        front parlor.
                    "I shall not detain you long, Mr. Roebuck," said I. "A report reached me this
                        evening that sent me to you at once."
                    "If possible, Matthew," said he, and he could not hide his uneasiness, "put
                        off business until to-morrow. My mindyours, too, I trustis not in the frame
                        for that kind of thoughts now."
                    "Is the Coal organization to be announced the first of July?" I demanded. It
                        has always been,  and always shall be, my
                        method to fight in the open. This, not from principle, but from expediency.
                        Some men fight best in the brush; I don't. So I always begin battle by
                        shelling the woods.
                    "No," he said, amazing me by his instant frankness. "The announcement has
                        been postponed."
                    Why did he not lie to me? Why did he not put me off the scent, as he might
                        easily have done, with some shrewd evasion? I suspected I owed it to my luck
                        in catching him at family prayers. For I know that the general impression of
                        him is erroneous; he is not merely a hypocrite before the world, but also a
                        hypocrite before himself. A more profoundly, piously conscientious man never
                        lived. Never was there a truer epitaph than the one implied in the sentence
                        carved over his niche in the magnificent mausoleum he built: "Fear naught
                        but the Lord."
                    "When will the reorganization be announced?" I asked.
                    "I can not say," he answered. "Some difficultieschiefly labor
                        difficultieshave arisen. Until they are settled, nothing can be done. Come
                        to me to-morrow, and we'll talk about it."
                    
                    "That is all I wished to know," said I, with a friendly, easy smile. "Good
                        night."
                    It was his turn to be astonishedand he showed it, where I had given not a
                        sign. "What was the report you heard?" he asked, to detain me.
                    "That you and Mowbray Langdon had conspired to ruin me," said I, laughing.
                    He echoed my laugh rather hollowly. "It was hardly necessary for you to come
                        to me about such aa statement."
                    "Hardly," I answered dryly. Hardly, indeed! For I was seeing now all that I
                        had been hiding from myself since I became infatuated with Anita and made
                        marrying her my only real business in life.
                    We faced each other, each measuring the other. And as his glance quailed
                        before mine, I turned away to conceal my exultation. In a comparison of
                        resources this man who had plotted to crush me was to me as giant to midget.
                        But I had the joy of realizing that man to man, I was the stronger. He had
                        craft, but I had daring. His vast wealth aggravated his natural
                        cowardicecrafty men are invariably cowards, and their audacities under the
                        compulsion of their  ravenous greed are like a
                        starving jackal's dashes into danger for food. My wealth belonged to me, not
                        I to it; and, stripped of it, I would be like the prize-fighter stripped for
                        the fight. Finally, he was old, I young. And there was the chief reason for
                        his quailing. He knew that he must die long before me, that my turn must
                        come, that I could dance upon his grave.
                
                
                
                    XXV
                    "MY WIFE MUST!"
                    As I drove away, I was proud of myself. I had listened to my death sentence
                        with a face so smiling that he must almost have believed me unconscious; and
                        also, it had not even entered my head, as I listened, to beg for mercy. Not
                        that there would have been the least use in begging; as well try to pray a
                        statue into life, as try to soften that set will and purpose. Still, many a
                        man would have weakenedand I had not weakened. But when I was once more in
                        my apartmentin our apartmentperhaps I did show that there
                        was a weak streak through me. I fought against the impulse to see her once
                        more that night; but I fought in vain. I knocked at the door of her
                        sitting-rooma timid knock, for me. No answer. I knocked again, more
                        loudlythen a third time, still more loudly. The door opened and she stood
                        there, like one of the angels that guarded the gates of Eden after  the fall. Only, instead of a flaming sword,
                        hers was of ice. She was in a dressing-gown or tea-gown, white and clinging
                        and full of intoxicating hints and glimpses of all the beauties of her
                        figure. Her face softened as she continued to look at me, and I entered.
                    "Noplease don't turn on any more lights," I said, as she moved toward the
                        electric buttons. "I just came in toto see if I could do anything for you."
                        In fact, I had come, longing for her to do something for me, to show in look
                        or tone or act some sympathy for me in my loneliness and trouble.
                    "No, thank you," she said. Her voice seemed that of a stranger who wished to
                        remain a stranger. And she was evidently waiting for me to go. You will see
                        what a mood I was in when I say I felt as I had not since I, a very small
                        boy indeed, ran away from home; I came back through the chilly night to take
                        one last glimpse of the family that would soon be realizing how foolishly
                        and wickedly unappreciative they had been of such a treasure as I; and when
                        I saw them sitting about the big fire in the lamp-light, heartlessly
                        comfortable and unconcerned, it was all I could do to keep back the  tears of strong self-pityand I never saw them
                        again.
                    "I've seen Roebuck," said I to Anita, because I must say something, if I was
                        to stay on.
                    "Roebuck?" she inquired. Her tone reminded me that his name conveyed nothing
                        to her.
                    "He and I are in an enterprise together," I explained. "He is the one man who
                        could seriously cripple me."
                    "Oh," she said, and her indifference, forced though I thought it, wounded.
                    "Well," said I, "your mother was right."
                    She turned full toward me, and even in the dimness I saw her quick sympathyan
                        impulsive flash instantly gone. But it had been there!
                    "I came in here," I went on, "to say thatAnita, it doesn't in the least
                        matter. No one in this world, no one and nothing, could hurt me except
                        through you. So long as I have you, theythe restall of
                        them togethercan't touch me."
                    We were both silent for several minutes. Then she said, and her voice was
                        like the smooth surface of the river where the boiling rapids run deep: "But
                        you haven't meand never shall
                         have. I've told you that. I warned you long
                        ago. No doubt you will pretend, and people will say, that I left you because
                        you lost your money. But it won't be so."
                    I was beside her instantly, was looking into her face. "What do you mean?" I
                        asked, and I did not speak gently.
                    She gazed at me without flinching. "And I suppose," she said satirically,
                        "you wonder why Iwhy you are repellent to me. Haven't you learned that,
                        though I may have been made into a moral coward, I'm not a physical coward?
                        Don't bully and threaten. It's useless."
                    I put my hand strongly on her shouldertaunts and jeers do not turn me aside.
                        "What did you mean?" I repeated.
                    "Take your hand off me," she commanded. "What did you mean?" I repeated
                        sternly. "Don't be afraid to answer."
                    She was very youngso the taunt stung her. "I was about to tell you," said
                        she, "when you began to make it impossible."
                    I took advantage of this to extricate myself from the awkward position in
                        which she had put meI took my hand from her shoulder.
                    "I am going to leave you," she announced.
                    
                    "You forget that you are my wife," said I.
                    "I am not your wife," was her answer, and if she had not looked so childlike,
                        there in the moonlight all in white, I could not have held myself in check,
                        so insolent was the tone and so helpless of ever being able to win her did
                        she make me feel.
                    "You are my wife and you will stay here with me," I reiterated, my brain on
                        fire.
                    "I am my own, and I shall go where I please, and do what I please," was her
                        contemptuous retort. "Why won't you be reasonable? Why won't you see how
                        utterly unsuited we are? I don't ask you to be a gentlemanbut just a man,
                        and be ashamed even to wish to detain a woman against her will."
                    I drew up a chair so close to her that to retreat, she was forced to sit in
                        the broad window-seat. Then I seated myself. "By all means, let us be
                        reasonable," said I. "Now, let me explain my position. I have heard you and
                        your friends discussing the views of marriage you've just been expressing.
                        Their views may be right, may be more civilized, more 'advanced' than mine.
                        No matter. They are not mine. I hold by the old standardsand you are my
                        wifemine.  Do you understand?" All this as
                        tranquilly as if we were discussing fair weather. "And you will live up to
                        the obligation which the marriage service has put upon you."
                    She might have been a marble statue pedestaled in that window seat.
                    "You married me of your own free willfor you could have protested to the
                        preacher and he would have sustained you. You tacitly put certain conditions
                        on our marriage. I assented to them. I have respected them. I shall continue
                        to respect them. Butwhen you married me, you didn't marry a dawdling dude
                        chattering 'advanced ideas' with his head full of libertinism. You married a
                        man. And that man is your husband."
                    I waited, but she made no commentnot even by gesture or movement. She simply
                        sat, her hands interlaced in her lap, her eyes straight upon mine.
                    "You say let us be reasonable," I went on. "Well, let us be reasonable. There
                        may come a time when woman can be free and independent, but that time is a
                        long way off yet. The world is organized on the basis of every woman's
                        having a protectorof every decent woman's having a  husband, unless she remains in the home of some of her
                        blood-relations. There may be women strong enough to set the world at
                        defiance. But you are not one of themand you know it. You have shown it to
                        yourself again and again in the last forty-eight hours. Your bringing-up has
                        kept you a child in real knowledge of real life, as distinguished from the
                        life in that fashionable hothouse. If you tried to assert your so-called
                        independence, you would be the easy prey of a scoundrel or scoundrels. When
                        I, who have lived in the thick of the fight all my life, who have learned by
                        many a surprise and defeat never to sleep except with the sword and gun in
                        hand, and one eye openwhen I have been trapped as Roebuck and Langdon have
                        just trapped mewhat chance would a woman like you have?"
                    She did not answer or change expression.
                    "Is what I say reasonable or unreasonable?" I asked gently.
                    "Reasonablefrom your standpoint," she said.
                    She gazed out into the moonlight, up into the sky. And at the look in her
                        face, the primeval savage in me strained to close round that slender  white throat of hers and crush and crush
                        until it had killed in her the thought of that other man which was
                        transforming her from marble to flesh that glowed and blood that surged. I
                        pushed back my chair with a sudden noise; by the way she trembled I gaged
                        how tense her nerves must be. I rose and, in a fairly calm tone, said: "We
                        understand each other?"
                    "Yes," she answered. "As before."
                    I ignored this. "Think it over, Anita," I urgedshe seemed to me so like a
                        sweet, spoiled child again. I longed to go straight at her about that other
                        man. I stood for a moment with Tom Langdon's name on my lips, but I could
                        not trust myself. I went away to my own rooms.
                    I thrust thoughts of her from my mind. I spent the night gnawing upon the
                        ropes with which Mowbray Langdon and Roebuck had bound me, hand and foot. I
                        now saw they were ropes of steeland it had long been broad day before I
                        found that weak strand which is in every rope of human make.
                
                
                
                    XXVI
                    THE WEAK STRAND
                    No sane creature, not even a sane bulldog, will fight simply from love of
                        fighting. When a man is attacked, he may be sure he has excited either fear
                        or cupidity, or both. As far as I could see, it was absurd that cupidity was
                        inciting Langdon and Roebuck against me. I hadn't enough to tempt them.
                        Thus, I was forced to conclude that I must possess a strength of which I was
                        unaware, and which stirred even Roebuck's fears. But what could it be?
                    Besides Langdon and Roebuck and me there were six principals in the proposed
                        Coal combine, three of them richer and more influential in finance than even
                        Langdon, all of them except possibly Dykeman, the lawyer or navigating
                        officer of the combine, more formidable figures than I. Yet none of these
                        men was being assailed. "Why am I singled out?" I asked myself, and I felt
                        that if I could answer, I should find I had 
                        the means wholly or partly to defeat them. But I could not explain to my
                        satisfaction even Langdon's activities against me. I felt that Anita was
                        somehow, in part at least, the cause; but, even so, how had he succeeded in
                        convincing Roebuck that I must be clipped and plucked into a groundling?
                    "It must have something to do with the Manasquale mines," I decided. "I
                        thought I had given over my control of them, but somehow I must still have a
                        control that makes me too powerful for Roebuck to be at ease so long as I am
                        afoot and armed." And I resolved to take my lawyers and search the whole
                        Manasquale transactionto explore it from attic to underneath the cellar
                        flooring. "We'll go through it," said I, "like ferrets through a ship's
                        hold."
                    As I was finishing breakfast, Anita came in. She had evidently slept well,
                        and I regarded that as ominous. At her age, a crisis means little sleep
                        until a decision has been reached. I rose, but her manner warned me not to
                        advance and try to shake hands with her.
                    "I have asked Alva to stop with me here for a few days," she said formally.
                    "Alva!" said I, much surprised. She had  not
                        asked one of her own friends; she had asked a girl she had met less than two
                        days before, and that girl my partner's daughter.
                    "She was here yesterday morning," Anita explained. And I now wondered how
                        much Alva there was in Anita's firm stand against her parents.
                    "Why don't you take her down to our place on Long Island?" said I, most
                        carefully concealing my delightfor Alva near her meant a friend of mine and
                        an advocate and example of real womanhood near her. "Everything's ready for
                        you there, and I'm going to be busy the next few daysbusy day and night."
                    She reflected. "Very well," she assented presently. And she gave me a puzzled
                        glance she thought I did not seeas if she were wondering whether the enemy
                        was not hiding new and deeper guile under an apparently harmless suggestion.
                    "Then I'll not see you again for several days," said I, most businesslike.
                        "If you want anything, there will be Monson out at the stables where he
                        can't annoy you. Or you can get me on the 'long distance.' Good-by. Good
                        luck."
                    And I nodded carelessly and friendlily to her, 
                        and went away, enjoying the pleasure of having startled her into visible
                        astonishment. "There's a better game than icy hostility, you very young,
                        young lady," said I to myself, "and that game is friendly indifference."
                    Alva would be with her. So she was secure for the present and my mind was
                        free for "finance."
                    At that time the two most powerful men in finance were Galloway and Roebuck.
                        In Spain I once saw a fight between a bull and a tigeror, rather the
                        beginning of a fight. They were released into a huge iron cage. After
                        circling it several times in the same direction, searching for a way out,
                        they came face to face. The bull tossed the tiger; the tiger clawed the
                        bull. The bull roared; the tiger screamed. Each retreated to his own side of
                        the cage. The bull pawed and snorted as if he could hardly wait to get at
                        the tiger; the tiger crouched and quivered and glared murderously, as if he
                        were going instantly to spring upon the bull. But the bull did not rush,
                        neither did the tiger spring. That was the Roebuck-Galloway situation.
                    How to bait Tiger Galloway to attack Bull Roebuckthat was the problem I must
                        solve, and  solve straightway. If I could
                        bring about war between the giants, spreading confusion over the whole field
                        of finance and filling all men with dread and fear, there was a chance, a
                        bare chance, that in the confusion I might bear off part of my fortune.
                        Certainly, conditions would result in which I could more easily get myself
                        intrenched again; then, too, there would be a by no means small satisfaction
                        in seeing Roebuck clawed and bitten in punishment for having plotted against
                        me.
                    Mutual fear had kept these two at peace for five years, and most considerate
                        and polite about each other's "rights." But while our country's industrial
                        territory is vast, the interests of the few great controllers who determine
                        wages and prices for all are equally vast, and each plutocrat is tormented
                        incessantly by jealousy and suspicion; not a day passes without conflicts of
                        interest that adroit diplomacy could turn into ferocious warfare. And in
                        this matter of monopolizing the coal, despite Roebuck's earnest assurances
                        to Galloway that the combine was purely defensive, and was really concerned
                        only with the labor question, Galloway, a great manufacturer, or, rather, a
                        huge levier of the taxes  of dividends and
                        interest upon manufacturing enterprises, could not but be uneasy.
                    Before I rose that morning I had a tentative plan for stirring him to action.
                        I was elaborating it on the way down town in my electric. It shows how badly
                        Anita was crippling my brain, that not until I was almost at my office did
                        it occur to me: "That was a tremendous luxury Roebuck indulged his
                        conscience in last night. It isn't like him to forewarn a man, even when
                        he's sure he can't escape. Though his prayers were hot in his mouth, still,
                        it's strange he didn't try to fool me. In fact, it's suspicious. In fact"
                    Suspicious? The instant the idea was fairly before my mind, I knew I had let
                        his canting fool me once more. I entered my offices, feeling that the blow
                        had already fallen; and I was surprised, but not relieved, when I found
                        everything calm. "But fall it will within an hour or sobefore I can move to
                        avert it," said I to myself.
                    And fall it did. At eleven o'clock, just as I was setting out to make my
                        first move toward heating old Galloway's heels for the war-path, Joe came in
                        with the news: "A general lockout's declared in the coal regions. The
                        operators have stolen a march on the men who, so they allege,  were secretly getting ready to strike. By
                        night every coal road will be tied up and every mine shut down."
                    Joe knew our coal interests were heavy, but he did not dream his news meant
                        that before the day was over we would be bankrupt and not able to pay
                        fifteen cents on the dollar. However, he knew enough to throw him into a
                        fever of fright. He watched my calmness with terror. "Coal stocks are
                        dropping like a thermometer in a cold wave," he said, like a fireman at a
                        sleeper in a burning house.
                    "Naturally," said I, unruffled, apparently. "What can we do about it?"
                    "We must do something!" he exclaimed.
                    "Yes, we must," I admitted. "For instance, we must keep cool, especially when
                        two or three dozen people are watching us. Also, you must attend to your
                        usual routine."
                    "What are you going to do?" he cried. "For God's sake, Matt, don't keep me in
                        suspense!"
                    "Go to your desk," I commanded. And he quieted down and went. I hadn't been
                        schooling him in the fire-drill for fifteen years in vain.
                    I went up the street and into the great banking  and brokerage house of Galloway and Company. I made my way through the
                        small army of guards, behind which the old beast of prey was intrenched, and
                        into his private den. There he sat, at a small, plain table, in the middle
                        of the room without any article of furniture in it but his table and his
                        chair. On the table was a small inkstand, perfectly clean, a steel pen
                        equally clean, on the rest attached to it. And that was allnot a letter, not
                        a scrap of paper, not a sign of work or of intention to work. It might have
                        been the desk of a man who did nothing; in fact, it was the desk of a man
                        who had so much to do that his only hope of escape from being overwhelmed
                        was to despatch and clear away each matter the instant it was presented to
                        him. Many things could be read from the powerful form, bolt upright in that
                        stiff chair, and from the cynical, masterful old face. But to me the chief
                        quality there revealed was that quality of qualities, decisionthe greatest
                        power a man can have, except only courage. And old James Galloway had both.
                    He respected Roebuck; Roebuck feared him. Roebuck did have some sort of
                        conscience, distorted though it was, and the dictator of savageries Galloway
                        would have scorned to commit.  Galloway had no
                        professions of consciencebeyond such small glozing of hypocrisy as any man
                        must put on if he wishes to be intrusted with the money of a public that
                        associates professions of religion and appearances of respectability with
                        honesty. Roebuck's passion was wealthto see the millions heap up and up.
                        Galloway had that passion, tooI have yet to meet a multi-millionaire who
                        isn't avaricious and even stingy. But Galloway's chief passion was powerto
                        handle men as a junk merchant handles rags, to plan and lead campaigns of
                        conquest with his golden legions, and to distribute the spoils like an
                        autocrat who is careless how they are divided, since all belongs to him,
                        whenever he wishes to claim it.
                    He pierced me with his blue eyes, keen as a youth's, though his face was
                        seamed with scars of seventy tumultuous years. He extended toward me over
                        the table his broad, stubby white handthe hand of a builder, of a
                        constructive genius. "How are you, Blacklock?" said he. "What can I do for
                        you?" He just touched my hand before dropping it, and resumed that idol-like
                        pose. But although there was only repose and deliberation in his manner, and
                        not a  suggestion of haste, I, like every one
                        who came into that room and that presence, had a sense of an interminable
                        procession behind me, a procession of men who must be seen by this
                        master-mover, that they might submit important and pressing affairs to him
                        for decision. It was unnecessary for him to tell any one to be brief and
                        pointed.
                    "I shall have to go to the wall to-day," said I, taking a paper from my
                        pocket, "unless you save me. Here is a statement of my assets and
                        liabilities. I call to your attention my Coal holdings. I was one of the
                        eight men whom Roebuck got round him for the new combineit is a secret, but
                        I assume you know all about it."
                    He laid the paper before him, put on his noseglasses and looked at it.
                    "If you will save me," I continued, "I will transfer to you, in a block, all
                        my Coal holdings. They will be worth double my total liabilities within
                        three monthsas soon as the reorganization is announced. I leave it entirely
                        to your sense of justice whether I shall have any part of them back when
                        this storm blows over."
                    "Why didn't you go to Roebuck?" he asked without looking up.
                    
                    "Because it is he that has stuck the knife into me."
                    "Why?"
                    "I don't know. I suspect the Manasquale properties, which I brought into the
                        combine, have some value, which no one but Roebuck, and perhaps Langdon,
                        knows aboutand that I in some way was dangerous to them through that fact.
                        They haven't given me time to look into it."
                    A grim smile flitted over his face. "You've been too busy getting married,
                        eh?"
                    "Exactly," said I. "It's another case of unbuckling for the wedding-feast and
                        getting assassinated as a penalty. Do you wish me to explain anything on
                        that listdo you want any details of the combineof the Coal stocks there?"
                    "Not necessary," he replied. As I had thought, with that enormous machine of
                        his for drawing in information, and with that enormous memory of his for
                        details, he probably knew more about the combine and its properties than I
                        did.
                    "You have heard of the lockout?" I inquiredfor I wished him to know I had no
                        intention of deceiving him as to the present market value of those stocks.
                    
                    "Roebuck has been commanded by his God," he said, "to eject the free American
                        labor from the coal regions and to substitute importations of coolie Huns
                        and Bohemians. Thus, the wicked American laborers will be chastened for
                        trying to get higher wages and cut down a pious man's dividends; and the
                        downtrodden coolies will be brought where they can enjoy the blessings of
                        liberty and of the preaching of Roebuck's missionaries."
                    I laughed, though he had not smiled, but had spoken as if stating colorless
                        facts. "And righteousness and Roebuck will prevail," said I.
                    He frowned slightly, a sardonic grin breaking the straight, thin, cruel line
                        of his lips. He opened his table's one shallow drawer, and took out a pad
                        and a pencil. He wrote a few words on the lowest part of the top sheet,
                        folded it, tore off the part he had scribbled on, returned the pad and
                        pencil to the drawer, handed the scrap of paper to me. "I will do it," he
                        said. "Give this to Mr. Farquhar, second door to the left. Good morning."
                        And in that atmosphere of vast affairs speedily despatched his consent
                        without argument seemed, and was, the matter-of-course.
                    I bowed. Though he had not saved me as a  favor
                        to me, but because it fitted in with his plans, whatever they were, my eyes
                        dimmed. "I shan't forget this," said I, my voice not quite steady.
                    "I know it," said he curtly. "I know you." I saw that his mind had already
                        turned me out. I said no more, and withdrew. When I left the room it was
                        precisely as it had been when I entered itexcept the bit of paper torn from
                        the pad. But what a difference to me, to the thousands, the hundreds of
                        thousands directly and indirectly interested in the Coal combine and its
                        strike and its products, was represented by those few, almost illegible
                        scrawlings on that scrap of paper.
                    Not until I had gone over the situation with Farquhar, and we had signed and
                        exchanged the necessary papers, did I begin to relax from the strainhow
                        great that strain was I realized a few weeks later, when the gray appeared
                        thick at my temples and there was in my crown what was, for such a shock as
                        mine, a thin spot. "I am saved!" said I to myself, venturing a long breath,
                        as I stood on the steps of Galloway's establishment, where hourly was
                        transacted business vitally affecting the welfare of scores of  millions of human beings, with James
                        Galloway's personal interest as the sole guiding principle. "Saved!" I
                        repeated, and not until then did it flash before me, "I must have paid a
                        frightful price. He would never have consented to interfere with Roebuck as
                        soon as I asked him to do it, unless there had been some powerful motive. If
                        I had had my wits about me, I could have made far better terms." Why hadn't
                        I my wits about me? "Anita" was my instant answer to my own question. "Anita
                        again. I had a bad attack of family man's panic." And thus it came about
                        that I went back to my own office, feeling as if I had suffered a severe
                        defeat, instead of jubilant over my narrow escape.
                    Joe followed me into my den. "What luck?" asked he, in the tone of a mother
                        waylaying the doctor as he issues from the sick-room.
                    "Luck?" said I, gazing blankly at him.
                    "You've seen the latest quotation, haven't you?" In his nervousness his
                        temper was on a fine edge.
                    "No," replied I indifferently. I sat down at my desk and began to busy
                        myself. Then I added: "We're out of the Coal combine. I've transferred our
                        holdings. Look after these things,  please."
                        And I gave him the checks, notes and memoranda of agreement.
                    "Galloway!" he exclaimed. And then his eye fell on the totals of the stock I
                        had been carrying. "Good God, Matt!" he gasped. "Ruined!"
                    And he sat down, and buried his face and cried like a childit was then that I
                        measured the full depth of the chasm I had escaped. I made no such
                        exhibition of myself, but when I tried to relight my cigar my hand trembled
                        so that the flame scorched my lips.
                    "Ruined?" I said to Joe, easily enough. "Not at all. We're back in the road,
                        going smoothly aheadonly, at a bit less stiff a pace. Think, Joe, of all
                        those poor devils down in the mining districts. They're outclear outand
                        thousands of 'em don't know where their families will get bread. And though
                        they haven't found it out yet, they've got to leave the place where they've
                        lived all their lives, and their fathers before themhave got to go wandering
                        about in a world that's as strange to them as the surface of the moon, and
                        as bare for them as the Sahara desert."
                    "That's so," said Joe. "It's hard luck." But I saw he was thinking only of
                        himself and his narrow escape from having to give up his big  house and all the rest of it; that,
                        soft-hearted and generous though he was, to those poor chaps and their wives
                        and children he wasn't giving a thought.
                    Wall Street never doesthey're too remote, too vague. It deals with columns of
                        figures and slips of paper. It never thinks of those abstractions as
                        standing for so many hearts and so many mouths, just as the bank clerk never
                        thinks of the bits of metal he counts so swiftly as money with which things
                        and men could be bought. I read somewhere once that VoltaireI think it was
                        Voltaireasked a man what he would do if, by pressing a button on his table,
                        he would be enormously rich and at the same time would cause the death of a
                        person away off at the other side of the earth, unknown to him, and probably
                        no more worthy to live, and with no greater expectation of life or of
                        happiness than the average sinful, short-lived human being. I've often
                        thought of that as I've watched our great "captains of industry." Voltaire's
                        dilemma is theirs. And they don't hesitate; they press the button. I leave
                        the morality of the performance to moralists; to me, its chief feature is
                        its cowardice, its sneaking, slimy cowardice.
                    
                    "You've done a grand two hours' work," said Joe.
                    "Grander than you think," replied I. "I've set the tiger on to fight the
                        bull."
                    "Galloway and Roebuck?"
                    "Just that," said I. And I laughed, started up, sat down again. "No, I'll put
                        off the pleasure," said I. "I'll let Roebuck find out, when the claws catch
                        in that tough old hide of his."
                
                
                
                    XXVII
                    A Conspiracy Against Anita
                    On about the hottest afternoon of that summer I had the yacht take me down
                        the Sound to a point on the Connecticut shore within sight of Dawn Hill, but
                        seven miles farther from New York. I landed at the private pier of Howard
                        Forrester, the only brother of Anita's mother. As I stepped upon the pier I
                        saw a fine-looking old man in the pavilion overhanging the water. He was
                        dressed all in white except a sky-blue tie that harmonized with the color of
                        his eyes. He was neither fat nor lean, and his smooth skin was protesting
                        ruddily against the age proclaimed by his wool-white hair. He rose as I came
                        toward him, and, while I was still several yards away, showed unmistakably
                        that he knew who I was and that he was anything but glad to see me.
                    "Mr. Forrester?" I asked.
                    He grew purple to the line of his thick white 
                        hair. "It is, Mr. Blacklock," said he. "I have the honor to wish you good
                        day, sir." And with that he turned his back on me and gazed out toward Long
                        Island.
                    "I have come to ask a favor of you, sir," said I, as polite to that hostile
                        back as if I had been addressing a cordial face. And I waited.
                    He wheeled round, looked at me from head to foot. I withstood the inspection
                        calmly; when it was ended I noted that in spite of himself he was somewhat
                        relaxed from the opinion of me he had formed upon what he had heard and
                        read. But he said: "I do not know you, sir, and I do not wish to know you."
                    "You have made me painfully aware of that," replied I. "But I have learned
                        not to take snap judgments too seriously. I never go to a man unless I have
                        something to say to him, and I never leave until I have said it."
                    "I perceive, sir," retorted he, "you have the thick skin necessary to living
                        up to that rule." And the twinkle in his eyes betrayed the man who delights
                        to exercise a real or imaginary talent for caustic wit. Such men are like
                        nettlesdangerous only to the timid touch.
                    "On the contrary," replied I, easy in mind 
                        now, though I did not anger him by showing it, "I am most sensitive to
                        insultsinsults to myself. But you are not insulting me.
                        You are insulting a purely imaginary, hearsay person who is, I venture to
                        assure you, utterly unlike me, and who doubtless deserves to be insulted."
                    His purple had now faded. In a far different tone he said: "If your business
                        in any way relates to the family into which you have married, I do not wish
                        to hear it. Spare my patience and your time, sir."
                    "It does not," was my answer. "It relates to my own familyto my wife and
                        myself. As you may have heard, she is no longer a member of the Ellersly
                        family. And I have come to you chiefly because I happen to know your
                        sentiment toward the Ellerslys."
                    "I have no sentiment toward them, sir!" he exclaimed. "They are non-existent,
                        sirnon-existent! Your wife's mother ceased to be a Forrester when she
                        married that scoundrel. Your wife is still less a Forrester."
                    "True," said I. "She is a Blacklock."
                    He winced, and it reminded me of the night of my marriage and Anita's
                        expression when the preacher called her by her new name. But I  held his gaze, and we looked each at the
                        other fixedly for, it must have been, full half a minute. Then he said
                        courteously: "What do you wish?"
                    I went straight to the point. My color may have been high, but my voice did
                        not hesitate as I explained: "I wish to make my wife financially
                        independent. I wish to settle on her a sum of money sufficient to give her
                        an income that will enable her to live as she has been accustomed. I know
                        she would not take it from me. So, I have come to ask you to pretend to give
                        it to herI, of course, giving it to you to give."
                    Again we looked full and fixedly each at the other. "Come to the house,
                        Blacklock," he said at last in a tone that was the subtlest of compliments.
                        And he linked his arm in mine. Half-way to the rambling stone house, severe
                        in its lines, yet fine and homelike, quaintly resembling its owner, as a
                        man's house always should, he paused. "I owe you an apology," said he.
                        "After all my experience of this world of envy and malice, I should have
                        recognized the man even in the caricatures of his enemies. And you brought
                        the best possible credentialsyou are well hated. To be well hated by the
                        human race  and by the creatures mounted on
                        its back is a distinction, sir. It is the crown of the true kings of this
                        world."
                    We seated ourselves on the wide veranda; he had champagne and water brought,
                        and cigars; and we proceeded to get acquaintednothing promotes cordiality
                        and sympathy like an initial misunderstanding. It was a good hour before
                        this kind-hearted, hard-soft, typical old-fashioned New Englander reverted
                        to the object of my visit. Said he: "And now, young man, may I venture to
                        ask some extremely personal questions?"
                    "In the circumstances," replied I, "you have the right to know everything. I
                        did not come to you without first making sure what manner of man I was to
                        find." At this he blushed, pleased as a girl at her first beau's first
                        compliment. "And you, Mr. Forrester, can not be expected to embark in the
                        little adventure I propose, until you have satisfied yourself."
                    "First, the why of your plan."
                    "I am in active business," replied I, "and I shall be still more active. That
                        means financial uncertainty."
                    His suspicion of me started up from its doze 
                        and rubbed its eyes. "Ah! You wish to insure yourself."
                    "Yes," was my answer, "but not in the way you hint. It takes away a man's
                        courage just when he needs it most, to feel that his family is involved in
                        his venture."
                    "Why do you not make the settlement direct?" he asked, partly reassured.
                    "Because I wish her to feel that it is her own, that I have no right over it
                        whatever."
                    He thought about this. His eyes were keen as he said, "Is that your real
                        reason?"
                    I saw I must be unreserved with him. "Part of it," I replied. "The rest isshe
                        would not take it from me."
                    The old man smiled cynically. "Have you tried?" he inquired.
                    "If I had tried and failed, she would have been on the alert for an indirect
                        attempt."
                    "Try her, young man," said he, laughing.
                    "In this day there are few people anywhere who'd refuse any sum from anybody
                        for anything. And a womanand a New York womanand a New York fashionable
                        womanand a daughter of old Ellerslyshe'll take it as a baby takes the
                        breast."
                    
                    "She would not take it," said I.
                    My tone, though I strove to keep angry protest out of it, because I needed
                        him, caused him to draw back instantly. "I beg your pardon," said he. "I
                        forgot for the moment that I was talking to a man young enough still to have
                        youth's delusions about women. You'll learn that they're human, that it's
                        from them we men inherit our weaknesses. However, let's assume that she
                        won't take it: Why won't she take your money? What is
                        there about it that repels Ellersly's daughter, brought up in the sewers of
                        fashionable New Yorkthe sewers, sir!"
                    "She does not love me," I answered.
                    "I have hurt you," he said quickly, in great distress at having compelled me
                        to expose my secret wound.
                    "The wound does not ache the worse," said I, "for my showing itto you." And that was the truth. I looked over toward Dawn
                        Hill whose towers could just be seen. "We live there." I pointed. "She
                        islike a guest in my house."
                    When I glanced at him again, his face betrayed a feeling of which I doubt if
                        any one had thought him capable in many a year. "I see that you love her,"
                        he said, gently as a mother.
                    
                    "Yes," I replied. And presently I went on:
                    "The idea of any one I love being dependent on me in a sordid way is most
                        distasteful to me. And since she does not love me, does not even like me, it
                        is doubly necessary that she be independent."
                    "I confess I do not quite follow you," said he.
                    "How can she accept anything from me? If she should finally be compelled by
                        necessity to do it, what hope could I have of her ever feeling toward me as
                        a wife should feel toward her husband?"
                    At this explanation of mine his eyes sparkled with angerand I could not but
                        suspect that he had at one time in his life been faced with a problem like
                        mine, and had settled it the other way. My suspicion was not weakened when
                        he went on to say:
                    "Boyish motives again! They show you do not know women. Don't be deceived by
                        their delicate exterior, by their pretenses of super-refinement. They affect
                        to be what passion deludes us into thinking them. But they're clay, sir,
                        just clay, and far less sensitive than we men. Don't you see, young man,
                        that by making her independent you're throwing away your best  chance of winning her? Women are like
                        dogslike dogs, sir! They lick the hand that feeds 'emlick it, and like it."
                    "Possibly," said I, with no disposition to combat views based on I knew not
                        what painful experience. "But I don't care for that sort of likingfrom a
                        woman, or from a dog."
                    "It's the only kind you'll get," retorted he, trying to control his
                        agitation. "I'm an old man. I know human naturethat's why I live alone.
                        You'll take that kind of liking, or do without."
                    "Then I'll do without," said I.
                    "Give her an income, and she'll go. I see it all. You've flattered her vanity
                        by showing your love for herthat's the way with women. They go crazy about
                        themselves, and forget all about the man. Give her an income and she'll go."
                    "I doubt it," said I. "And you would, if you knew her. But, even so, I shall
                        lose her in any event. For, unless she is made independent, she'll certainly
                        go with the last of the little money she has, the remnant of a small
                        legacy."
                    The old man argued with me, the more vigorously, I suspect, because he found
                        me resolute. When he could think of no new way of stating  his casehis case against Anitahe said: "You
                        are a fool, young manthat's clear. I wonder such a fool was ever able to get
                        together as much property as report credits you with. Butyou're the kind of
                        fool I like."
                    "Thenyou'll indulge my folly?" said I, smiling.
                    He threw up his arms in a gesture of mock despair. "If you will have it so,"
                        he replied. "I am curious about this niece of mine. I want to see her. I
                        want to see the woman who can resist you."
                    "Her mind and her heart are closed against me," said I. "And it is my own
                        faultI closed them."
                    "Put her out of your head," he advised. "No woman is worth a serious man's
                        while."
                    "I have few wants, few purposes," said I. "But those few I pursue to the end.
                        Even though she were not worth while, even though I wholly lost hope, still
                        I'd not give her up. I couldn'tthat's my nature. Butshe is
                        worth while." And I could see her, slim and graceful, the curves in her face
                        and figure that made my heart leap, the azure sheen upon her petal-like
                        skin, the mystery of the soul luring from her eyes.
                    
                    After we had arranged the businessor, rather, arranged to have it arranged
                        through our lawyershe walked down to the pier with me. At the gangway he
                        gave me another searching look from head to footbut vastly different from
                        the inspection with which our interview had begun. "You are a devilish
                        handsome young fellow," said he. "Your pictures don't do you justice. And I
                        shouldn't have believed any man could overcome in one brief sitting such a
                        prejudice as I had against you. On second thought, I don't care to see her.
                        She must be even below the average."
                    "Or far above it," I suggested.
                    "I suppose I'll have to ask her over to visit me," he went on. "A fine
                        hypocrite I'll feel."
                    "You can make it one of the conditions of your gift that she is not to thank
                        you or speak of it," said I. "I fear your face would betray us, if she ever
                        did."
                    "An excellent idea!" he exclaimed. Then, as he shook hands with me in
                        farewell: "You will win her yetif you care to."
                    As I steamed up the Sound, I was tempted to put in at Dawn Hill's harbor.
                        Through my glass I could see Anita and Alva and several others,  men and women, having tea on the lawn under a
                        red and white awning. I could see her dressa violet suit with a big violet
                        hat to match. I knew that costume. Like everything she wore, it was both
                        beautiful in itself and most becoming to her. I could see her face, could
                        almost make out its expressiondid I see, or did I imagine, a cruel contrast
                        to what I always saw when she knew I was looking?
                    I gazed until the trees hid lawn and gay awning, and that lively company and
                        her. In my bitterness I was full of resentment against her, full of
                        self-pity. I quite forgot, for that moment, her side of
                        the story.
                
                
                
                    XXVIII
                    BLACKLOCK SEES A LIGHT
                    It was next day, I think, that I met Mowbray Langdon and his brother Tom in
                        the entrance of the Textile Building. Mowbray was back only a week from his
                        summer abroad; but Tom I had seen and nodded to every day, often several
                        times in the same day, as he went to and fro about his "respectable" dirty
                        work for the Roebuck-Langdon clique. He was one of their most frequently
                        used stool-pigeon directors in banks and insurance companies whose funds
                        they staked in their big gambling operations, they taking almost all the
                        profits and the depositors and policy holders taking almost all the risk. It
                        had never once occurred to me to have any feeling of any kind about Tom, or
                        in any way to take him into my calculations as to Anita. He was, to my eyes,
                        too obviously a pale understudy of his powerful and fascinating brother.
                        Whenever I thought of him as the man Anita fancied she loved, I  put it aside instantly. "The kind of man a
                        woman really cares for," I would say to myself, "is the
                        measure of her true self. But not the kind of man she imagines she cares for."
                    Tom went on; Mowbray stopped. We shook hands, and exchanged commonplaces in
                        the friendliest wayI was harboring no resentment against him, and I wished
                        him to realize that his assault had bothered me no more than the buzzing and
                        battering of a summer fly. "I've been trying to get in to see you," said he.
                        "I wanted to explain about that unfortunate Textile deal."
                    This, when the assault on me had burst out with fresh energy the day after he
                        landed from Europe! I could scarcely believe that his vanity, his confidence
                        in his own skill at underground work could so delude him. "Don't bother,"
                        said I. "All that's ancient history."
                    But he had thought out some lies he regarded as particularly creditable to
                        his ingenuity; he was not to be deprived of the pleasure of telling them. So
                        I was compelled to listen; and, being in an indulgent mood, I did not spoil
                        his pleasure by letting him see or suspect my unbelief. If he could have
                        looked into my mind, as I stood there in an attitude of patient attention, I
                        think even his self-complacence  would have
                        been put out of countenance. You may admire the exploits of a "gentleman"
                        cracksman or pickpocket, if you hear or read them with only their ingenuity
                        put before you. But see a "gentleman" liar or thief at his
                        sneaking, cowardly work, and admiration is impossible. As Langdon lied on,
                        as I studied his cheap, vulgar exhibition of himself, he all unconscious, I
                        thought: "Beneath that very thin surface of yours, you're a poor cowardly
                        creatureyou, and all your fellow bandits. No; bandit is too grand a word to
                        apply to this game of 'high finance.' It's really on the level with the game
                        of the fellow that waits for a dark night, slips into the barn-yard, poisons
                        the watch-dog, bores an auger-hole in the granary, and takes to his heels at
                        a suspicious sound."
                    With his first full stop, I said: "I understand perfectly, Langdon. But I
                        haven't the slightest interest in crooked enterprises now. I'm clear out of
                        all you fellows' stocks. I've reinvested my property so that not even a
                        panic would trouble me."
                    "That's good," he drawled. I saw he did not believe mewhich was natural, as
                        he knew nothing of my arrangement with Galloway and assumed  I was laboring in heavy weather, with a bad
                        cargo of Coal stocks and contracts. "Come to lunch with me. I've got some
                        interesting things to tell you about my trip."
                    A few months before, I should have accepted with alacrity. But I had lost
                        interest in him. He had not changed; if anything, he was more dazzling than
                        ever in the ways that had once dazzled me. It was I that had changedmy
                        ideals, my point of view. I had no desire to feed my new-sprung contempt by
                        watching him pump in vain for information to be used in his secret campaign
                        against me. "No, thanks. Another day," I replied, and left him with a curt
                        nod. I noted that he had failed to speak of my marriage, though he had not
                        seen me since. "A sore subject with all the Langdons," thought I. "It must
                        be very sore, indeed, to make a man who is all manners, neglect them."
                    My whole life had been a series of transformations so continuous that I had
                        noted little about my advance, beyond its directionlike a man hurrying up a
                        steep that keeps him bent, eyes down. But, as I turned away from Langdon, I
                        caught myself in the very act of transformation. No doubt, the new view had
                        long been there, its  horizon expanding with
                        every step of my ascent; but not until that talk with him did I see it. I
                        looked about me in Wall Street; in my mind's eye I all in an instant saw my
                        world as it really was. I saw the great rascals of "high finance," their
                        respectability stripped from them; saw them gathering in the spoils which
                        their cleverly-trained agents, commercial and political and legal, filched
                        with light fingers from the pockets of the crowd, saw the crowd looking up
                        to these trainers and employers of pickpockets, hailing them "captains of
                        industry"! They reaped only where and what others had sown; they touched
                        industry only to plunder and to blight it; they organized it only that its
                        profits might go to those who did not toil and who despised those who did.
                        "Have I gone mad in the midst of sane men?" I asked myself. "Or have I been
                        mad, and have I suddenly become sane in a lunatic world?"
                    I did not linger on that problem. For me action remained the essential of
                        life, whether I was sane or insane. I resolved then and there to map a new
                        course. By toiling like a sailor at the pump of a sinking ship, I had taken
                        advantage to the uttermost of the respite Galloway's help had given me. My
                        property was no longer in more  or less
                        insecure speculative "securities," but was, as I had told Langdon, in forms
                        that would withstand the worst shocks. The attacks of my enemies, directed
                        partly at my fortune, or, rather, at the stocks in which they imagined it
                        was still invested, and partly at my personal character, were doing me good
                        insead of harm. Hatred always forgets that its shafts, falling round its
                        intended victim, spring up as legions of supporters for him. My business was
                        growing rapidly; my daily letter to investors was read by hundreds of
                        thousands where tens of thousands had read it before the Roebuck-Langdon
                        clique began to make me famous by trying to make me infamous.
                    "I am strong and secure," said I to myself as I strode through the wonderful
                        canyon of Broadway, whose walls are those mighty palaces of finance and
                        commerce from which business men have been ousted by cormorant "captains of
                        industry." I must use my strength. How could I better use
                        it than by fluttering these vultures on their roosts, and perhaps bringing
                        down a bird or two?
                    I decided, however, that it was better to wait until they had stopped
                        rattling their beaks and claws on my shell in futile attack. "Meanwhile,"
                             1 reasoned carefully, "I can be getting
                        good and ready."
                    Their first new move, after my little talk with Langdon, was intended as a
                        mortal blow to my credit. Melville requested me to withdraw mine and
                        Blacklock and Company's accounts from the National Industrial Bank; and the
                        fact that this huge and powerful institution had thus branded me was slyly
                        given to the financial reporters of the newspapers. Far and wide it was
                        published; and the public was expected to believe that this was one more and
                        drastic measure in the "campaign of the honorable men of finance to clean
                        the Augean Stables of Wall Street." My daily letter to investors next
                        morning led off with this paragraphthe first notice I had taken publicly of
                        their attacks on me:
                    "In the effort to discredit the only remaining uncontrolled source of
                        financial truth, the big bandits have ordered my accounts out of their chief
                        gambling-house. I have transferred the accounts to the Discount and Deposit
                        National, where Leonidas Thornley stands guard against the new order that
                        seeks to make business a synonym for crime."
                    Thornley was of the type that was dominant in 
                        our commercial life before the "financiers" camejust as song birds were
                        common in our trees until the noisy, brawling, thieving sparrows drove them
                        out. His oldest son was about to marry Joe's daughterAlva. Many a Sunday I
                        have spent at his place near Morristowna charming combination of city
                        comfort with farm freedom and fresh air. I remember, one Sunday, saying to
                        him, after he had seen his wife and daughters off to church: "Why haven't
                        you got rich? Why haven't you looked out for establishing these boys and
                        girls of yours?"
                    "I don't want my girls to be sought for money," said he, "I don't want my
                        boys to rely on money. Perhaps I've seen too much of wealth, and have come
                        to have a prejudice against it. Then, too, I've never had the chance to get
                        rich."
                    I showed that I thought that he was simply jesting.
                    "I mean it," said he, looking at me with eyes as straight as a
                        well-brought-up girl's. "How could my mind be judicial if I were personally
                        interested in the enterprises people look to me for advice about?"
                    And not only did he keep himself clear and his 
                        mind judicial but also he was, like all really good people, exceedingly slow
                        to believe others guilty of the things he would as soon have thought of
                        doing as he would have thought of slipping into the teller's cage during the
                        lunch hour and pocketing a package of bank-notes. He gave me his mottoa
                        curious one: "Believe in everybody; trust in nobody."
                    "Only a thief wishes to be trusted," he explained, "and only a fool trusts. I
                        let no one trust me; I trust no one. But I believe evil of no man. Even when
                        he has been convicted, I see the mitigating circumstances."
                    How Thornley did stand by me! And for no reason except that it was as
                        necessary for him to be fair and just as to breathe. I shall not say he
                        resisted the attempts to compel him to desert methey simply made no
                        impression on him. I remember, when Roebuck himself, a large stock-holder in
                        the bank, left cover far enough personally to urge him to throw me over, he
                        replied stead-fastly:
                    "If Mr. Blacklock is guilty of circulating false stones against commercial
                        enterprises, as his enemies allege, the penal code can be used to stop him.
                        But as long as I stay at the head of this 
                        bank, no man shall use it for personal vengeance. It is a chartered public
                        institution, and all have equal rights to its facilities. I would lend money
                        to my worst enemy, if he came for it with the proper security. I would
                        refuse my best friend, if he could not give security. The funds of a bank
                        are a trust fund, and my duty is to see that they are employed to the best
                        advantage. If you wish other principles to prevail here, you must get
                        another president."
                    That settled it. No one appreciated more keenly than did Roebuck that
                        character is as indispensable in its place as is craft where the situation
                        demands craftand is far harder to get.
                    I shall not relate in detail that campaign against me. It failed not so much
                        because I was strong as because it was weak. Perhaps, if Roebuck and Langdon
                        could have directed it in person, or had had the time to advise with their
                        agents before and after each move, it might have succeeded. They would not
                        have let exaggeration dominate it and venom show upon its surface; they
                        would not have neglected to follow up advantages, would not have persisted
                        in lines of attack that created public sympathy for me. They would not have
                        so crudely exploited my unconventional 
                        marriage and my financial relations with old Ellersly. But they dared not go
                        near the battle-field; they had to trust to agents whom their orders and
                        suggestions reached by the most roundabout ways; and they were busier with
                        their enterprises that involved immediate and great gain or loss of money.
                    When Galloway died, they learned that the Coal stocks with which they thought
                        I was loaded down were part of his estate. They satisfied themselves that I
                        was in fact as impregnable as I had warned Langdon. They reversed tactics;
                        Roebuck tried to make it up with me. "If he wants to see me," was my
                        invariable answer to the intimations of his emissaries, "let him come to my
                        office, just as I would go to his, if I wished to see him."
                    "He is a big mana dangerous big man," cautioned Joe.
                    "Bigyes. But strong only against his own kind," replied I. "One mouse can
                        make a whole herd of elephants squeal for mercy."
                    "It isn't prudent, it isn't prudent," persisted Joe.
                    "It is not," replied I." Thank God, I'm at last in the position I've been
                        toiling to achieve.  I don't have to be
                        prudent. I can say and do what I please, without fear of the consequences. I
                        can freely indulge in the luxury of being a man. That's costly, Joe, but
                        it's worth all it could cost."
                    Joe didn't understand mehe rarely did. " I'm a hen. You're an eagle," said
                        he.
                
                
                
                    XXIX
                    A HOUSEWARMING
                    Joe's daughter, staying on and on at Dawn Hill, was chief lieutenant, if not
                        principal, in my conspiracy to drift Anita day by day further and further
                        into the routine of the new life. Yet neither of us had shown by word or
                        look that a thorough understanding existed between us. My part was to be
                        unobtrusive, friendly, neither indifferent nor eager, and I held to it by
                        taking care never to be left alone with Anita; Alva's part was to be
                        herselfsimple and natural and sensible, full of life and laughter, mocking
                        at those moods that betray us into the absurdity of taking our-selves too
                        seriously.
                    I was getting ready a new house in town as a surprise to Anita, and I took
                        Alva into my plot. "I wish Anita's part of the house to be exactly to her
                        liking," said I. "Can't you set her to dreaming aloud what kind of place she
                        would like to live in, what she would like to open her eyes on  ill the morning, what surroundings she'd like
                        to dress in and read in, and all that?"
                    Alva had no difficulty in carrying out the suggestions. And by harassing
                        Westlake incessantly, I succeeded in realizing her report of Anita's dream
                        to the exact shade of the draperies and the silk that covered the walls. By
                        pushing the work, I got the house done just as Alva was warning me that she
                        could not remain longer at Dawn Hill, but must go home and get ready for her
                        wedding. When I went down to arrange with her the last details of the
                        surprise, who should meet me at the station but Anita herself? I took one
                        glance at her serious face and, much disquieted, seated myself beside her in
                        the little trap. Instead of following the usual route to the house, she
                        turned her horse into the bay-shore road.
                    "Several days ago," she began, as the bend hid the station, "I got a letter
                        from some lawyers, saying that an uncle of mine had given me a large sum of
                        moneya very large sum. I have been inquiring about it, and find it is mine
                        absolutely,"
                    I braced myself against the worst. "She is about to tell me that she is
                        leaving," thought I, But I managed to say; "I'm glad to hear of  your luck," though I fear my tone was not
                        especially joyous.
                    "So," she went on, "I am in a position to pay back to you, I think, what my
                        father and Sam took from you. It won't be enough, I'm afraid, to pay what
                        you lost indirectly. But I have told the lawyers to make it all over to
                        you."
                    I could have laughed aloud. It was too ridiculous, this situation into which
                        I had got myself. I did not know what to say. I could hardly keep out of my
                        face how foolish this collapse of my crafty conspiracy made me feel. And
                        then the full meaning of what she was doing came over methe revelation of
                        her character. I trusted myself to steal a glance at her; and for the first
                        time I didn't see the thrilling azure sheen over her smooth white skin,
                        though all her beauty was before me, as dazzling as when it compelled me to
                        resolve to win her. No; I saw her, herselfthe woman within. I had known from
                        the outset that there was an altar of love within my temple of passion. I
                        think that was my first real visit to it.
                    "Anita!" I said unsteadily. "Anita!"
                    The color flamed in her cheeks; we were silent for a long time.
                    
                    "Youyour people owe me nothing," I at length found voice to say. "Even if
                        they did, I couldn't and wouldn't take your money. But, believe me, they owe
                        me nothing."
                    "You can not mislead me," she answered. "When they asked me to become engaged
                        to you, they told me about it."
                    I had forgotten. The whole repulsive, rotten business came back to me. And,
                        changed man that I had become in the last six months, I saw myself as I had
                        been. I felt that she was looking at me, was reading the degrading
                        confession in my telltale features.
                    "I will tell you the whole truth," said I. "I did use your father's and your
                        brother's debts to me as a means of getting to you. But, before God, Anita,
                        I swear I was honest with you when I said to you I never hoped or wished to
                        win you in that way!"
                    "I believe you," she replied, and her tone and expression made my heart leap
                        with indescribable joy.
                    Love is sometimes most unwise in his use of the reins he puts on passion.
                        Instead of acting as impulse commanded, I said clumsily, "And I am very
                        different to-day from what Lwas last  spring."
                        It never occurred to me how she might interpret those words.
                    "I know," she replied. She waited several seconds before adding: "I, too,
                        have changed. I see that I was far more guilty than you. There is no excuse
                        for me. I was badly brought up, as you used to say, but"
                    "Nono," I began to protest.
                    She cut me short with a sad: "You need not be polite and spare my feelings.
                        Let's not talk of it. Let us go back to the object I had in coming for you
                        to-day,"
                    "You owe me nothing," I repeated. "Your brother and your father settled long
                        ago. I lost nothing through them. And I've learned that if I had never known
                        you, Roebuck and Langdon would still have attacked me."
                    "What my uncle gave me has been transferred to you," said she, woman fashion,
                        not hearing what she did not care to heed. "I can't make you accept it; but
                        there it is, and there it stays."
                    "I can not take it," said I. "If you insist on leaving it in my name, I shall
                        simply return it to your uncle."
                    "I wrote him what I had done," she rejoined. "His answer came yesterday. He
                        approves it."
                    
                    "Approves it!" I exclaimed.
                    "You do not know how eccentric he is," she explained, naturally
                        misunderstanding my astonishment. She took a letter from her bosom and
                        handed it to me. I read: 
                            
                                
                                    "DEAR MADAM: It was
                                        yours to do with as you pleased. If you ever find yourself
                                        in the mood to visit, Gull House is open to you, provided
                                        you bring no maid. I will not have female servants about.
                                    "Yours truly,
                                        "HOWARD FORRESTER"
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    "You will consent now, will you not?" she asked, as I lifted my eyes from
                        this characteristic note.
                    I saw that her peace of mind was at stake. "YesI consent."
                    She gave a great sigh as at the laying down of a heavy burden. "Thank you,"
                        was all she said, but she put a world of meaning into the words. She took
                        the first homeward turning. We were nearly at the house before I found words
                        that would pave the way toward expressing my thoughtsmy longings and hopes.
                    
                    "You say you have forgiven me," said I. "Then we can befriends?"
                    She was silent, and I took her somber expression to mean that she feared I
                        was hiding some subtlety.
                    "I mean just what I say, Anita," I hastened to explain. "Friendssimply
                        friends." And my manner fitted my words.
                    She looked strangely at me. "You would be content with that?" she asked.
                    I answered what I thought would please her. "Let us make the best of our bad
                        bargain," said I. "You can trust me now, don't you think you can?"
                    She nodded without speaking; we were at the door, and the servants were
                        hastening out to receive us. Always the servants between us. Servants
                        indoors, servants outdoors; morning, noon and night, from waking to
                        sleeping, these servants to whom we are slaves. As those interrupting
                        servants sent us each a separate way, her to her maid, me to my valet, I was
                        depressed with the chill that the opportunity that has not been seen leaves
                        behind it as it departs.
                    "Well," said I to myself by way of consolation, as I was dressing for dinner,
                        "she is certainly  softening toward you, and
                        when she sees the new house you will be still better friends."
                    But, when the great day came, I was not so sure. Alva went for a "private
                        view" with young Thornley; out of her enthusiasm she telephoned me from the
                        very midst of the surroundings she found "so wonderful and
                            so beautiful"thus she assured me, and her voice made
                        it impossible to doubt. And, the evening before the great day, I, going for
                        a final look round, could find no flaw serious enough to justify the sinking
                        feeling that came over me every time I thought of what Anita would think
                        when she saw my efforts to realize her dream. I set out for "home" half a
                        dozen times at least, that afternoon, before I pulled myself together,
                        called myself an ass, and, with a pause at Delmonico's for a drink, which I
                        ordered and then rejected, finally pushed myself in at the door. What a
                        state my nerves were in!
                    Alva had departed; Anita was waiting for me in her sitting-room. When she
                        heard me in the hall, just outside, she stood in the doorway. "Come in," she
                        said to me, who did not dare so much as a glance at her.
                    
                    I entered. I must have looked as I feltlike a boy, summoned before the
                        teacher to be whipped in presence of the entire school. Then I was conscious
                        that she had my handhow she had got it, I don't knowand that she was
                        murmuring, with tears of happiness in her voice: "Oh, I can't say it!"
                    "Glad you like your own taste," said I awkwardly. "You know, Alva told me."
                    "But it's one thing to dream, and a very different thing to do," she
                        answered. Then, with smiling reproach: "And I've been thinking all summer
                        that you were ruined! I've been expecting to hear every day that you had had
                        to give up the fight."
                    "Ohthat passed long ago," said I.
                    "But you never told me," she reminded me. "And I'm glad you didn't," she
                        added. "Not knowing saved me from doing something very foolish." She
                        reddened a little, smiled a great deal, dazzlingly, was altogether different
                        from the ice-locked Anita of a short time before, different as June from
                        January. And her handso intensely aliveseemed extremely comfortable in mine.
                    Even as my blood responded to that electric 
                        touch, I had a twinge of cynical bitterness. Yes, apparently I was at last
                        getting what I had so long, so vainly, and, latterly, so hopelessly craved.
                            Butwhy was she giving it? Why had she withheld herself
                        until this moment of material happiness? "I have to pay the rich man's
                        price," thought I, with a sigh.
                    It was in reaching out for some sweetness to take away this bitter taste in
                        my honey that I said to her, "When you gave me that money from your uncle,
                        you did it to help me out?"
                    She colored deeply. "How silly you must have thought me!" she answered.
                    I took her other hand. As I was drawing her toward me, the sudden pallor of
                        her face and chill of her hands halted me once more, brought sickeningly
                        before me the early days of my courtship when she had infuriated my pride by
                        trying to be "submissive." I looked round the roomthat room into which I had
                        put so much thoughtand money. Money! "The rich man's price!" those
                        delicately brocaded walls shimmered mockingly at me.
                    "Anita," said I, "do you care for me?"
                    She murmured inaudibly. Evasion! thought I, and suspicion sprang on guard,
                        bristling.
                    
                    "Anita," I repeated sternly, "do you care for me?"
                    "I am your wife," she replied, her head drooping still lower. And
                        hesitatingly she drew away from me. That seemed confirmation of my doubt and
                        I said to her satirically, "You are willing to be my wife out of gratitude,
                        to put it politely?"
                    She looked straight into my eyes and answered, "I can only say there is no
                        one I like so well, andI will give you all I have to give."
                    "Like!" I exclaimed contemptuously, my nerves giving way altogether. "And you
                        would be my wife! Do you want me to despise you?" I struck dead my poor, feeble hope that had been all but
                        still-born. I rushed from the room, closing the door violently between us.
                    Such was our housewarming.
                
                
                
                    XXX
                    BLACKLOCK OPENS FIRE
                    For what I proceeded to do, all sorts of motives, from the highest to the
                        basest, have been attributed to me. Here is the truth: I had already pushed
                        the medicine of hard work to its limit. It was as powerless against this new
                        development as water against a drunkard's thirst. I must find some new, some
                        compelling drugsome frenzy of activity that would swallow up my self as the
                        battle makes the soldier forget his toothache. This confession may chagrin
                        many who have believed in me. My enemies will hasten to say: "Aha, his
                        motive was even more selfish and petty than we alleged." But those who look
                        at human nature honestly, and from the inside, will understand how I can
                        concede that a selfish reason moved me to draw my sword, and still can claim
                        a higher motive. In such straits as were mine, some men of my all-or-none
                        temperament debauch themselves; others  thresh
                        about blindly, reckless whether they strike innocent or guilty. I did
                        neither.
                    Probably many will recall that long before the "securities" of the
                        reorganized coal combine were issued, I had in my daily letter to investors
                        been preparing the public to give them a fitting reception. A few days after
                        my whole being burst into flames of resentment against Anita, out came the
                        new array of new stocks and bonds. Roebuck and Langdon arranged with the
                        under writers for a "fake" four times over-subscription, indorsed by the two
                        greatest banking houses in the Street. Despite this often-tried and
                        always-good trick, the public refused to buy. I felt I had not been
                        overestimating my power. But I made no move until the "securities" began to
                        go up, and the financial reportersunder the influence where not actually in
                        the pay of the Roebuck- Langdon cliqueshouted that, "in spite of the
                        malicious attacks from the gambling element, the new securities are being
                        absorbed by the public at prices approximating their value." ThenBut I shall
                        quote my investors' letter the following morning:
                    "At half-past nine yesterdaynine-twenty-eight 
                        to be exactPresident Melville, of the National Industrial Bank, loaned six
                        hundred thousand dollars. He loaned it to Bill Van Nest, an ex-gambler and
                        proprietor of pool rooms, now silent partner in Hoe & Wittekind,
                        brokers, on the New York Stock Exchange, and also in Filbert &
                        Jonas, curb brokers. He loaned it to Van Nest without security.
                    "Van Nest used the money yesterday to push up the price of the new coal
                        securities by 'wash sales'which means, by making false purchases and sales
                        of the stock in order to give the public the impression of eager buying. Van
                        Nest sold to himself and bought from himself 347,060 of the 352,681 shares
                        traded in.
                    "Melville, in addition to being president of one of the largest banks in the
                        world, is a director in no less than seventy-three great industrial
                        enterprises, including railways, telegraph companies, savings-banks and life-insurance companies. Bill Van Nest has done
                        time in the Nevada State Penitentiary for horse-stealing."
                    That was all. And it was enoughquite enough. I was a national figure, as much
                        so as if I had tried to assassinate the president. Indeed 
                        
                            HOW THAT HORRIBLE FEAR CHANGED MY WHOLE WAY OF LOOKING AT HER, AT
                                HIM, AT EVERYTHING! Page 476
                            
                        
                        
                         I had exploded a bomb under a greater than
                        the presidentunder the chiefs of the real government of the United States,
                        the government that levied daily upon every citizen, and that had state and
                        national and the principal municipal governments in its strong box.
                    I confess I was as much astounded at the effect of my bomb as old Melville
                        must have been. I felt that I had been obscure, as I looked at the
                        newspapers, with Matthew Blacklock appropriating almost the entire front
                        page of each. I was the isolated, the conspicuous figure, standing alone
                        upon the steps of the temple of Mammon, where mankind daily and devoutly
                        comes to offer worship.
                    Not that the newspapers praised me. I recall none that spoke well of me. The
                        nearest approach to praise was the "Blacklock squeals on the Wall Street
                        gang" in one of the sensational penny sheets that strengthen the plutocracy
                        by lying about it. Some of the papers insinuated that I had gone mad; others
                        that I had been bought up by a rival gang to the Roebuck-Langdon clique;
                        still others thought I was simply hunting notoriety. All were inclined to
                        accept as a sufficient denial of my charges Melville's dignified  refusal "to notice any attack from a quarter
                        so discredited."
                    As my electric whirled into Wall Street, I saw the crowd in front of the
                        Textile Building, a dozen policemen keeping it in order. I descended amid
                        cheers, and entered my offices through a mob struggling to shake hands with
                        meand, in my ignorance of mob mind, I was delighted and inspired! Just why a
                        man who knows men, knows how wishy-washy they are as individuals, should be
                        influenced by a demonstration from a mass of them, is hard to understand.
                        But the fact is indisputable. They fooled me then; they could fool me again,
                        in spite of all I have been through. There probably wasn't one in that mob
                        for whose opinion I would have had the slightest respect had he come to me
                        alone; yet as I listened to those shallow cheers and those worthless
                        assurances of "the people are behind you, Blacklock," I felt that I was a
                        man with a mission!
                    Our main office was full, literally full, of newspaper menreporters from
                        morning papers, from afternoon papers, from out-of-town and foreign papers.
                        I pushed through them, saying as I went: "My letter speaks for me,
                        gentlemen,  and will continue to speak for me.
                        I have nothing to say except through it."
                    "But the public" urged one.
                    "It doesn't interest me," said I, on my guard against the temptation to cant.
                        "I am a banker and investment broker. I am interested only in my customers."
                    And I shut myself in, giving strict orders to Joe that there was to be no
                        talking about me or my campaign. "I don't purpose to let the newspapers make
                        us cheap and notorious," said I. "We must profit by the warning in the fate
                        of all the other fellows who have sprung into notice by attacking these
                        bandits."
                    The first news I got was that Bill Van Nest had disappeared. As soon as the
                        Stock Exchange opened, National Coal became the feature. But, instead of
                        "wash sales," Roebuck, Langdon and Melville were themselves, through various
                        brokers, buying the stocks in large quantities to keep the prices up. My
                        next letter was as brief as my first philippic:
                    "Bill Van Nest is at the Hotel Frankfort. Newark, under the name of Thomas
                        Lowry. He was in telephonic communication with President  Melville, of the National Industrial Bank,
                        twice yesterday.
                    "The underwriters of the National Coal Company's new issues, frightened by
                        yesterday's exposure, have compelled Mr. Roebuck, Mr. Mowbray Langdon and
                        Mr. Melville themselves to buy. So, yesterday, those three gentlemen bought
                        with real money, with their own money, large quantities of stocks which are
                        worth less than half what they paid for them.
                    "They will continue to buy these stocks so long as the public holds aloof.
                        They dare not let the prices slump. They hope that this storm will blow
                        over, and that then the investing public will forget and will relieve them
                        of their load."
                    I had added: "But this storm won't blow over. It will become a cyclone." I
                        struck that out. "No prophecy," said I to myself. "Your rule, iron-clad,
                        must befacts, always facts; only facts."
                    The gambling section of the public took my hint and rushed into the market;
                        the burden of protecting the underwriters was doubled, and more and more of
                        the hoarded loot was disgorged. That must have been a costly dayfor, ten  minutes after the Stock Exchange closed,
                        Roebuck sent for me.
                    "My compliments to him," said I to his messenger, "but I am too busy. I'll be
                        glad to see him here, however."
                    "You know he dares not come to you," said the messenger, Schilling, president
                        of the National Manufactured Food Company, sometimes called the Poison
                        Trust. "If he did, and it were to get out, there'd be a panic."
                    "Probably," replied I with a shrug. "That's no affair of mine. I'm not
                        responsible for the rotten conditions which these so-called financiers have
                        produced, and I shall not be disturbed by the crash which must come."
                    Schilling gave me a genuine look of mingled pity and admiration. "I suppose
                        you know what you're about," said he, "but I think you're making a mistake."
                    "Thanks, Ned," said Ihe had been my head clerk a few years before, and I had
                        got him the chance with Roebuck which he had improved so well. "I'm going to
                        have some fun. Can't live but once."
                    "I know some people," said he significantly, "who would go to any lengths to get an enemy  out of
                        the way." He had lived close enough to Roebuck to peer into the black
                        shadows of that satanic mind, and dimly to see the dread shapes that lurked
                        there.
                    "I'm the safest man on Manhattan Island for the present," said I.
                    "You remember Woodrow? I've always believed that he was murdered, and that
                        the pistol they found beside him was a 'plant."
                    "You'd kill me yourself, if you got the orders, wouldn't you?" said I
                        good-humoredly.
                    "Not personally," replied he in the same spirit, yet serious, too, at bottom.
                        "Inspector Bradlaugh was telling me, the other night, that there were easily
                        a thousand men in the slums of the East Side who could be hired to kill a
                        man for five hundred dollars."
                    I suppose Schilling, as the directing spirit of a corporation that hid poison
                        by the hogshead in low-priced foods of various kinds, was responsible for
                        hundreds of deaths annually, and for misery of sickness beyond calculation
                        among the poor of the tenements and cheap boarding-houses. Yet a better
                        husband, father and friend never lived. He, personally, wouldn't have harmed
                        a fly; but he was a wholesale poisoner for dividends.
                    
                    Murder for dividends. Poison for dividends. Starve and freeze and maim for
                        dividends. Drive parents to suicide, and sons and daughters to crime and
                        prostitutionfor dividends. Not fair competition, in which the stronger and
                        better would survive, but cheating and swindling, lying and pilfering and
                        bribing, so that the honest and the decent go down before the dishonest and
                        the depraved. And the custom of doing these things so "respectable," the
                        applause for "success" so undiscriminating, and men so unthinking in the
                        rush of business activity, that criticism is regarded as a mixture of envy
                        and idealism. And it usually is, I must admit.
                    Schilling lingered. "I hope you won't blame me for lining up against you,
                        Matt," said he. "I don't want to, but I've got to."
                    "Why?"
                    "You know what'd become of me if I didn't."
                    "You might become an honest man and get self-respect," I suggested with
                        friendly satire.
                    "That's all very well for you to say," was his laughing retort. "You've made
                        yourself tight and tidy for the blow. But I've a family, and a damned
                        expensive one, too. And if I didn't stand by this gang, they'd take
                        everything I've got away  from me. No, Matt,
                        each of us to his own game. What is your game, anyhow?"
                    "Funjust fun. Playing the pipe to see the big fellows dance."
                    But he didn't believe it. And no one has believed itnot even my most devoted
                        followers. To this day Joe Ball more than half suspects that my real
                        objective was huge personal gain. That any rich man should do anything
                        except for the purpose of growing richer seems incredible. That any rich man
                        should retain or regain the sympathies and viewpoint of the class from which
                        he sprang, and should become a "traitor" to the class to which he belongs,
                        seems preposterous. I confess I don't fully understand my own case. Who ever
                        does?
                    My "daily letters" had now ceased to be advertisements, had become news,
                        sought by all the newspapers of this country and of the big cities in Great
                        Britain. I could have made a large saving by no longer paying my sixty-odd
                        regular papers for inserting them. But I was looking too far ahead to
                        blunder into that fatal mistake. Instead, I signed a year's contract with
                        each of my papers, they guaranteeing to print my advertisements, I
                        guaranteeing to protect them against loss  on
                        libel suits. I organized a dummy news bureau, and through it got contracts
                        with the telegraph companies. Thus insured against the cutting of my
                        communications with the public, I was ready for the real campaign.
                    It began with my "History of the National Coal Company." I need not repeat
                        that famous history here. I need recall only the main pointshow I proved
                        that the common stock was actually worth less than two dollars a share, that
                        the bonds were worth less than twenty-five dollars in the hundred, that both
                        stock and bonds were illegal; my detailed recital of the crimes of Roebuck,
                        Melville and Langdon in wrecking mining properties, in wrecking coal
                        railways, in ejecting American labor and substituting helots from eastern
                        Europe; how they had swindled and lied and bribed; how they had twisted the
                        books of the companies, how they were planning to unload the mass of almost
                        worthless securities at high prices, then to get from under the market and
                        let the bonds and stocks drop down to where they could buy them in on terms
                        that would yield them more than two hundred and fifty per cent. on the
                        actual capital invested. Less and dearer coal; lower wages and more ignorant
                        laborers; enormous  profits absorbed without
                        mercy into a few pockets.
                    On the day the seventh chapter of this history appeared, the telegraph
                        companies notified me that they would transmit no more of my matter. They
                        feared the consequences in libel suits, explained Moseby, general manager of
                        one of the companies.
                    "But I guarantee to protect you," said I. "I will give bond in any amount you
                        ask."
                    "We can't take the risk, Mr. Blacklock," replied he. The twinkle in his eye
                        told me why, and also that he, like every one else in the country except the
                        clique, was in sympathy with me.
                    My lawyers found an honest judge, and I got an injunction that compelled the
                        companies to transmit under my contracts. I suspended the "History" for one
                        day, and sent out in place of it an account of this attempt to shut me off
                        from the public. "Hereafter," said I, in the last paragraph in my letter, "I
                        shall end each day's chapter with a forecast of what the next day's chapter
                        is to be. If for any reason it fails to appear, the public will know that
                        somebody has been coerced by Roebuck, Melville & Co."
                
                
                
                    XXXI
                    ANITA'S SECRET
                    That afternoonor, was it the next?I happened to go home early. I have never
                        been able to keep alive anger against any one. My anger against Anita had
                        long ago died away, had been succeeded by regret and remorse that I had let
                        my nerves, or whatever the accursed cause was, whirl me into such an
                        outburst. Not that I regretted having rejected what I still felt was
                        insulting to me and degrading to her; simply that my manner should have been
                        different. There was no necessity or excuse for violence in showing her that
                        I would not, could not, accept from gratitude what only love has the right
                        to give. And I had long been casting about for some way to apologizenot easy
                        to do, when her distant manner toward me made it difficult for me to find
                        even the necessary commonplaces to "keep up appearances" before the servants
                        on the few occasions on which we accidentally met.
                    
                    But, as I was saying, I came up from the office and stretched myself on the
                        lounge in my private room adjoining the library. I had read myself into a
                        doze, when a servant brought me a card. I glanced at it as it lay upon his
                        extended tray. "Gerald Monson," I read aloud. "What does the damned rascal
                        want?" I asked.
                    The servant smiled. He knew as well as I how Monson, after I dismissed him
                        with a present of six months' pay, had given the newspapers the storyor,
                        rather, his version of the storyof my efforts to educate myself in the "arts
                        and graces of a gentleman."
                    "Mr. Monson says he wishes to see you particular, sir," said he.
                    "WellI'll see him," said I. I despised him too much to dislike him, and I
                        thought he might possibly be in want. But that notion vanished the instant I
                        set eyes upon him. He was obviously at the very top of the wave. "Hello,
                        Monson," was my greeting, in it no reminder of his treachery.
                    "Howdy, Blacklock," said he. "I've come on a little errand for Mrs. Langdon."
                        Then, with that nasty grin of his: "You know, I'm looking after things for
                        her since the bust-up."
                    
                    "No, I didn't know," said I curtly, suppressing my instant curiosity. "What
                        does Mrs. Langdon want?"
                    "To see youfor just a few minuteswhenever it is convenient."
                    "If Mrs. Langdon has business with me, I'll see her at my office," said I.
                        She was one of the fashionables that had got herself into my black books by
                        her treatment of Anita since the break with the Ellerslys.
                    "She wishes to come to you herethis afternoon, if you are to be at home. She
                        asked me to say that her business is importantand very private."
                    I hesitated, but I could think of no good excuse for refusing. "I'll be here
                        an hour," said I. "Good day."
                    He gave me no time to change my mind. Somethingperhaps it was his curious
                        expression as he took himself offmade me begin to regret. The more I thought
                        of the matter, the less I thought of my having made any civil concession to
                        a woman who had acted so badly toward Anita and myself. He had not been gone
                        a quarter of an hour before I went to Anita in her sitting-room. Always, the
                        instant I entered the  outer door of her part
                        of our house, that powerful, intoxicating fascination that she had for me
                        began to take possession of my senses. It was in every garment she wore. It
                        seemed to linger in any place where she had been, for a long time after she
                        left it. She was at a small desk by the window, was writing letters.
                    "May I interrupt?" said I. "Monson was here a few minutes agofrom Mrs.
                        Langdon. She wants to see me. I told him I would see her here. Then it
                        occurred to me that perhaps I had been too good-natured. What do you think?"
                    I could not see her face, but only the back of her head, and the loose coils
                        of magnetic hair and the white nape of her graceful neck. As I began to
                        speak, she stopped writing, her pen suspended over the sheet of paper. After
                        I ended there was a long silence.
                    "I'll not see her," said I. "I don't quite understand why I yielded." And I
                        turned to go.
                    "Waitplease," came from her abruptly.
                    Another long silence. Then I: "If she comes here, I think the only person who
                        can properly receive her is you."
                    "Noyou must see her," said Anita at last. And she turned round in her chair
                        until she was  facing me. Her expressionI can
                        not describe it. I can only say that it gave me a sense of impending
                        calamity.
                    "I'd rather notmuch rather not," said I.
                    "I particularly wish you to see her," she replied, and she turned back to her
                        writing. I saw her pen poised as if she were about to begin; but she did not
                        beginand I felt that she would not. With my mind shadowed with vague dread,
                        I left that mysterious stillness, and went back to the library.
                    It was not long before Mrs. Langdon was announced. There are some women to
                        whom a haggard look is becoming; she is one of them. She was much thinner
                        than when I last saw her; instead of her former restless, petulant,
                        suspicious expression, she now looked tragically sad. "May I trouble you to
                        close the door?" said she, when the servant had withdrawn.
                    I closed the door.
                    "I've come," she began, without seating herself, "to make you as unhappy, I
                        fear, as I am. I've hesitated long before coming. But I am desperate. The
                        one hope I have left is that you and I between us may be able totothat you
                        and I may be able to help each other."
                    
                    I waited.
                    "I suppose there are people," she went on, "who have never known what it was
                        toreally to care for some one else. They would despise me for clinging to a
                        man after he has shown me thatthat his love has ceased."
                    "Pardon me, Mrs. Langdon," I interrupted. "You apparently think your husband
                        and I are intimate friends. Before you go any further, I must disabuse you
                        of that idea."
                    She looked at me in open astonishment. "You do not know why my husband has
                        left me?"
                    "Until a few minutes ago, I did not know that he had left you," I said. "And
                        I do not wish to know why."
                    Her expression of astonishment changed to mockery. "Oh!" she sneered. "Your
                        wife has fooled you into thinking it a one-sided affair. Well, I tell you,
                        she is as much to blame as hemore. For he did love me when he married me;
                        did love me until she got him under her spell again."
                    I thought I understood. "You have been misled, Mrs. Langdon," said I gently,
                        pitying her as the victim of her insane jealousy. "You have"
                    
                    "Ask your wife," she interrupted angrily. "Hereafter, you can't pretend
                        ignorance. For I'll at least be revenged. She failed utterly to trap him
                        into marriage when she was a poor girl, and"
                    "Before you go any further," said I coldly, "let me set you right. My wife
                        was at one time engaged to your husband's brother, but"
                    "Tom?" she interrupted. And her laugh made me bite my lip. "So she told you
                        that! I don't see how she dared. Why, everybody knows that she and Mowbray
                        were engaged, and that he broke it off to marry me."
                    All in an instant everything that had been confused in my affairs at home and
                        down town became clear. I understood why I had been pursued relentlessly in
                        Wall Street; why I had been unable to make the least impression on the
                        barriers between Anita and myself. You will imagine that some terrible
                        emotion at once dominated me. But this is not a romance; only the veracious
                        chronicle of certain human beings. My first emotion wasrelief that it was
                        not Tom Langdon. "I ought to have known she couldn't care for him," said I to myself. I, contending with Tom Langdon for a
                        woman's love had always  made me shrink. But
                        Mowbraythat was vastly different. My respect for myself and for Anita rose.
                    "No," said I to Mrs. Langdon, "my wife did not tell me, never spoke of it.
                        What I said to you was purely a guess of my own. I had no interest in the
                        matterand haven't. I have absolute confidence in my wife. I feel ashamed
                        that you have provoked me into saying so." I opened the door.
                    "I am not going yet," said she angrily. "Yesterday morning Mowbray and she
                        were riding together in the Riverside Drive. Ask her groom."
                    "What of it?" said I. Then, as she did not rise, I rang the bell. When the
                        servant came, I said: "Please tell Mrs. Blacklock that Mrs. Langdon is in
                        the libraryand that I am here, and gave you the message."
                    As soon as the servant was gone, she said: "No doubt she'll lie to you. These
                        women that steal other women's property are usually clever at fooling their
                        own silly husbands."
                    "I do not intend to ask her," I replied. "To ask her would be an insult."
                    She made no comment beyond a scornful toss  of
                        the head. We both had our gaze fixed upon the door through which Anita would
                        enter. When she finally did appear, I, after one glance at her, turnedit
                        must have been triumphantlyupon her accuser. I had not doubted, but where is
                        the faith that is not the stronger for confirmation? And confirmation there
                        was in the very atmosphere round that stately, still figure. She looked
                        calmly, first at Mrs. Langdon, then at me.
                    "I sent for you," said I, "because I thought that you, rather than I, should
                        request Mrs. Langdon to leave your house."
                    At that Mrs. Langdon was on her feet, and blazing. "Fool!" she flared at me.
                        "Oh, the fools women make of men!" Then to Anita: "YouyouBut no, I must not
                        permit you to drag me down to your level. Tell your husbandtell him that you
                        were riding with my husband in the Riverside Drive yesterday."
                    I stepped between her and Anita. "My wife will not answer you," said I. "I
                        hope, Madam, you will spare us the necessity of a painful scene. But leave
                        you mustat once."
                    She looked wildly round, clasped her hands, suddenly burst into tears. If she
                        had but known, she could have had her own way after that, without  out any attempt from me to oppose her. For
                        she was evidently unutterably wretchedand no one knew better than I the
                        sufferings of unreturned love. But she had given me up; slowly, sobbing, she
                        left the room, I opening the door for her and closing it behind her.
                    "I almost broke down myself," said I to Anita. "Poor woman! How can you be so
                        calm? You women in your relations with each other area mystery."
                    "I have only contempt for a woman who tries to hold a man when he wishes to
                        go," said Anita, with quiet but energetic bitterness. "Besides"she hesitated
                        an instant before going on"Gladys deserves her fate. She doesn't really care
                        for him. She's only jealous of him. She never did love him."
                    "How do you know?" said I sharply, trying to persuade myself it was not an
                        ugly suspicion in me that lifted its head and shot out that question.
                    "Because he never loved her," she replied. "The feeling a woman has for a man
                        or a man for a woman, without any response, isn't love, isn't worthy the
                        name of love. It's a sort of baffled covetousness. Love means generosity,
                        not  greediness." Then"Why do you not ask me
                        whether what she said is true?"
                    The change in her tone with that last sentence, the strange, ominous note in
                        it, startled me.
                    "Because," replied I, "as I said to her, to ask my wife such a question would
                        be to insult her. If you were riding with him, it was an accident." As if my
                        rude repulse of her overtures and my keeping away from her ever since would
                        not have justified her in almost anything.
                    She flushed the dark red of shame, but her gaze held steady and unflinching
                        upon mine. "It was not altogether by accident," she said. And I think she
                        expected me to kill her.
                    When a man admits and respects a woman's rights where he is himself
                        concerned, he either is no longer interested in her or has begun to love her
                        so well that he can control the savage and selfish instincts of passion. If
                        Mowbray Langdon had been there, I might have killed them both; but he was
                        not there, and she, facing me without fear, was not the woman to be
                        suspected of the stealthy and traitorous.
                    "It was he that you meant when you warned me you cared for another man?" said
                        I, so quietly that I wondered at myself; wondered what had  become of the "Black Matt" who had used his
                        fists almost as much as his brains in fighting his way up.
                    "Yes," she said, her head down now.
                    A long pause.
                    "You wish to be free?" I asked, and my tone must have been gentle.
                    "I wish to free you," she replied slowly and deliberately.
                    There was a long silence. Then I said: "I must think it all out. I once told
                        you how I felt about these matters. I've greatly changed my mind since our
                        talk that night in the Willoughby; but my prejudices are still with me.
                        Perhaps you will not be surprised at thatyou whose prejudices have cost me
                        so dear."
                    I thought she was going to speak. Instead she turned away, so that I could no
                        longer see her face.
                    "Our marriage was a miserable mistake," I went on, struggling to be just and
                        judicial, and to seem calm. "I admit it now. Fortunately, we are both still
                        youngyou very young. Mistakes in youth are never fatal. But, Anita, do not
                        blunder out of one mistake into another. You are no longer a child, as you
                        were when I married  you. You will be careful
                        not to let judgments formed of him long ago decide you for him as they
                        decided you against me."
                    "I wish to be free," she said, each word coming with an effort, "as much on
                        your account as on my own." Then, and it seemed to me merely a truly
                        feminine attempt to shirk responsibility, she added, "I am glad my going
                        will be a relief to you."
                    "Yes, it will be a relief," I confessed. "Our situation has become
                        intolerable." I had reached my limit of self-control. I put out my hand.
                        "Good-by," I said.
                    If she had wept, it might have modified my conviction that everything was at
                        an end between us. But she did not weep. "Can you ever forgive me?" she
                        asked.
                    "Let's not talk of forgiveness," said I, and I fear my voice and manner were
                        gruff, as I strove not to break down. "Let's try to forget." And I touched
                        her hand and hastened away.
                    When two human beings set out to misunderstand each other, how fast and far
                        they go! How shut-in we are from each other, with only halting means of
                        communication that break down under the slightest strain!
                    
                    As I was leaving the house next morning, I gave Sanders this note for her:
                    "I have gone to live at the Downtown Hotel. When you have decided what course
                        to take, let me know. If my 'rights' ever had any substance, they have
                        starved away to such weak things that they collapse even as I try to set
                        them up. I hope your freedom will give you happiness, and me peace."
                    "You are ill, sir?" asked my old servant, my old friend, as he took the note.
                    "Stay with her, Sanders, as long as she wishes," said I, ignoring his
                        question. "Then come to me."
                    His look made me shake hands with him. As I did it, we both remembered the
                        last time we had shaken handswhen he had the roses for my home-coming with
                        my bride. It seemed to me I could smell those roses.
                
                
                
                    XXXII
                    LANGDON COMES TO THE SURFACE
                    I shall not estimate the vast sums it cost the Roebuck-Langdon clique to
                        maintain the prices of National Coal, and so give plausibility to the
                        fiction that the public was buying eagerly. In the third week of my
                        campaign, Melville was so deeply involved that he had to let the two others
                        take the whole burden upon themselves.
                    In the fourth week, Langdon came to me.
                    The interval between his card and himself gave me a chance to recover from my
                        amazement. When he entered he found me busily writing. Though I had nerved
                        myself, it was several seconds before I ventured to look at him. There he
                        stood, probably as handsome, as fascinating as ever, certainly as
                        self-assured. But I could now, beneath that manner I had once envied, see
                        the puny soul, with its brassy glitter of the vanity of luxury and show. I
                        had been somewhat afraid of myselfafraid the sight of him would stir  up in me a tempest of jealousy and hate; as I
                        looked, I realized that I did not know my own nature. "She does not love
                        this man," I thought. "If she did or could, she would not be the woman I
                        love. He deceived her inexperience as he deceived mine."
                    "What can I do for you?" said I to him politely, much as if he were a
                        stranger making an untimely interruption.
                    My look had disconcerted him; my tone threw him into confusion. "You keep out
                        of the way, now that you've become famous," he began, with a halting but
                        heroic attempt at his customary easy superiority. "Are you living up in
                        Connecticut, too? Sam Ellersly tells me your wife is stopping there with old
                        Howard Forrester. Sam wants me to use my good offices in making it up
                        between you two and her family."
                    I was completely taken aback by this cool ignoring of the real situation
                        between him and me. Impudence or ignorance?I could not decide. It seemed
                        impossible that Anita had not told him; yet it seemed impossible, too, that
                        he would come to me if she had told him. "Have you any business with me?" said I.
                    His eyelids twitched nervously, and he adjusted  his lips several times before he was able to say:
                    "You and your wife don't care to make it up with the Ellerslys? I fancied so,
                        and told Sam you'd simply think me meddlesome. The other matter is the
                        Travelers Club. I've smoothed things out there. I'm going to put you up and
                        rush you through."
                    "No, thanks," said I. It seemed incredible to me that I had ever cared about
                        that club and the things it represented, as I could remember I undoubtedly
                        did care. It was like looking at an outgrown toy and trying to feel again
                        the emotions it once excited.
                    "I assure you, Matt, there won't be the slightest difficulty." His manner was
                        that of a man playing the trump card in a desperate gamehe feels it can not
                        lose, yet the stake is so big that he can not but be a little nervous.
                    "I do not care to join the Travelers Club," said I, rising. "I must ask you
                        to excuse me. I am exceedingly busy."
                    A flush appeared in his cheeks and deepened and spread until his whole body
                        must have been afire. He seated himself. "You know what I've come for," he
                        said sullenly, and humbly, too.
                    All his life he had been enthroned upon his 
                        wealth. Without realizing it, he had claimed and had received deference
                        solely because he was rich. He had thought himself, in his own person, most
                        superior; now, he found that like a silly child he had been standing on a
                        chair and crying: "See how tall I am." And the airs, the cynicism, the
                        graceful condescension, which had been so becoming to him, were now as out
                        of place as crown and robes on a king taking a swimming lesson.
                    "What are your terms, Blacklock? Don't be too hard on an old friend," said
                        he, trying to carry off his frank plea for mercy with a smile.
                    I should have thought he would cut his throat and jump off the Battery wall
                        before he would get on his knees to any man for any reason. And he was doing
                        it for mere moneyto try to save, not his fortune, but only an imperiled part
                        of it.
                    "If Anita could see him now!" I thought.
                    To him I said, the more coldly because I did not wish to add to his
                        humiliation by showing him that I pitied him: "I can only repeat, Mr.
                        Langdon, you will have to excuse me. I have given you all the time I can
                        spare."
                    His eyes were shifting and his hands trembling as he said: "I will transfer
                        control of the Coal combine to you."
                    
                    His tones, shameful as the offer they carried, made me ashamed for him. For
                        moneyjust for money! And I had thought him a man. If he had been a
                        self-deceiving hypocrite like Roebuck, or a frank believer in the right of
                        might, like Updegraff, I might possibly, in the circumstances, have tried to
                        release him from my net. But he had never for an instant deceived himself as
                        to the real nature of the enterprises he plotted, promoted and profited by;
                        he thought it "smart" to be bad, and he delighted in making the most cynical
                        epigrams on the black deeds of himself and his associates.
                    "Better sell out to Roebuck," I suggested. "I control all the Coal stock I
                        need."
                    "I don't care to have anything further to do with Roebuck," Langdon answered.
                        "I've broken with him."
                    "When a man lies to me," said I, "he gives me the chance to see just how much
                        of a fool he thinks I am, and also the chance to see just how much of a fool
                        he is. I hesitate to think so poorly of you as your attempt to fool me seems
                        to compel."
                    But he was unconvinced. "I've found he intends to abandon the ship and leave
                        me to go  down with it," he persisted. "He
                        believes he can escape and denounce me as the arch rascal who planned the
                        combine, and can convince people that I foozled him into it."
                    Ingenious; but I happened to know that it was false. "Pardon me, Mr.
                        Langdon," said I with stiff courtesy. "I repeat, I can do nothing for you.
                        Good morning." And I went at my work as if he were already gone.
                    Had I been vindictive, I would have led him on to humiliate himself more
                        deeply, if greater depths of humiliation there are than those to which he
                        voluntarily descended. But I wished to spare him; I let him see the
                        uselessness of his mission. He looked at me in silencethe look of hate that
                        can come only from a creature weak as well as wicked. I think it was all his
                        keen sense of humor could do to save him from a melodramatic outbreak. He
                        slipped into his habitual pose, rose and withdrew without another word. All
                        this fright and groveling and treachery for plunder, the loss of which would
                        not impair his fortuneplunder he had stolen with many a jest and gibe at his
                        helpless victims. Like most of our debonair dollar chasers, he was a good
                        sportsman only when the game was with him.
                    
                    That afternoon he threw his Coal holdings on the market in great blocks. His
                        treachery took Roebuck completely by surprisefor Roebuck believed in this
                        fair-weather "gentleman," foul-weather coward, and neglected to allow for
                        that quicksand that is always under the foundation of the man who has
                        inherited, not earned, his wealth. But for the blundering credulity of
                        rascals, would honest men ever get their dues? Roebuck's brokers had bought
                        many thousands of Langdon's shares at the high artificial price before
                        Roebuck grasped the situationthat it was not my followers recklessly
                        gambling to break the prices, but Langdon unloading on his "pal." As soon as
                        he saw, he abruptly withdrew from the market. When the Stock Exchange
                        closed, National Coal securities were offered at prices ranging from eleven
                        for the bonds to two for the common and three for the preferredoffered, and
                        no takers.
                    "Well, you've done it," said Joe, coming with the news that Thornley, of the
                        Discount and Deposit Bank, had been appointed receiver.
                    "I've made a beginning," replied I. And the last sentence of my next
                        morning's "letter" was:
                    
                    "To-morrow the first chapter of the History of the Industrial National Bank."
                    "I have felt for two years," said Roebuck to Schilling, who repeated it to me
                        soon afterward, "that Blacklock was about the most dangerous fellow in the
                        country. The first time I set eyes on him, I saw he was a born iconoclast.
                        And I've known for a year that some day he would use that engine of
                        publicity of his to cannonade the foundations of society."
                    "He knew me better than I knew myself," was my comment to Schilling. And I
                        meant itfor I had not finished the demolition of the Coal combine when I
                        began to realize that, whatever I might have thought of my own ambitions, I
                        could never have tamed myself or been tamed into a devotee of dollars and of
                        respectability. I simply had been keeping quiet until my tools were sharp
                        and fate spun my opportunity within reach. But I must, in fairness, add, it
                        was lucky for me that, when the hour struck, Roebuck was not twenty years
                        younger and one-twentieth as rich. It's a heavy enough handicap, under the
                        best of circumstances, to go to war burdened with years; add the burden of a
                        monster fortune, and it isn't in  human nature
                        to fight well. Youth and a light knapsack!
                    Butto my fight on the big bank.
                    Until I opened fire, the public thought, in a general way, that a bank was an
                        institution like Thornley's Discount and Deposit Nationala place for the
                        safe-keeping of money and for accommodating business men with loans to be
                        used in carrying on and extending legitimate and useful enterprises. And
                        there were many such banks. But the real object of the banking business, as
                        exploited by the big bandits who controlled it and all industry, was to draw
                        into a mass the money of the country that they might use it to manipulate
                        the markets, to wreck and reorganize industries and wreck them again, to
                        work off inflated bonds and stocks upon the public at inflated prices, to
                        fight among themselves for rights to despoil, making the people pay the war
                        budgetsin a word, to finance the thousand and one schemes whereby they and
                        their friends and relatives, who neither produce nor help to produce,
                        appropriate the bulk of all that is produced.
                    And before I finished with the National Industrial Bank, I had shown that it
                        and several similar institutions in the big cities throughout the country
                             were, in fact, so many dens to which rich
                        and poor were lured for spoliation. I then took up the Universal Life, as a
                        type. I showed how insuring was, with the companies controlled by the
                        bandits, simply the decoy; that the real object was the same as the real
                        object of the big bandit banks. When I had finished my series on the
                        Universal Life I had named and pilloried Roebuck, Langdon, Melville,
                        Wainwright, Updegraff, Van Steen, Epsteinthe seven men of enormous wealth,
                        leaders of the seven cliques that had the political and industrial United
                        States at their mercy, and were plucking the people through an
                        ever-increasing army of agents. The agents kept some of the feathers"The
                        Seven" could afford to pay liberally. But the bulk of the feather crop was
                        passed on to "The Seven."
                    I shall answer in a paragraph the principal charges that were made against
                        me. They say I bribed employees on the telegraph companies, and so got
                        possession of incriminating telegrams that had been sent by "The Seven" in
                        the course of their worst campaigns. I admit the charge. They say I bribed
                        some of their confidential men to give me transcripts and photographs of
                        secret ledgers and reports. I admit the charge. They  say I bought translations of stenographic notes taken by
                        eavesdroppers on certain important secret meetings. I admit the charge. But
                        what was the chief element in my success in thus getting proofs of their
                        crimes? Not the bribery, but the hatred that all the servants of such men
                        have for them. I tempted no one to betray them. Every item of
                            information I got was offered to me. And I shall add these facts:
                    First, in not a single case did they suspect and discharge the "guilty"
                        persons.
                    Second, I have to-day as good means of access to their secrets as I ever
                        hadand, if they discharged all who now serve them, I should be able soon to
                        reestablish my lines; men of their stripe can not hope to be served
                        faithfully.
                    Third, I had offers from all but three of "The Seven" to "peach" on the
                        others in return for immunity. There may be honor among some thieves, but
                        not among "respectable" thieves. Hypocrisy and honor will be found in the
                        same character when the sun shines at nightnot before.
                    It was the sardonic humor of fate that Langdon, for all his desire to keep
                        out of my way,  should have compelled me to
                        center my fire upon him; that I, who wished to spare him, if possible,
                        should have been compelled to make of him my first "awful example."
                    I had decided to concentrate upon Roebuck, because he was the richest and
                        most powerful of "The Seven." For, in my pictures of the three main phases
                        of "finance"the industrial, the life-insurance and the bankinghe, as arch
                        plotter in every kind of respectable skulduggery, was necessarily in the
                        foreground. My original intention was to demolish the Power Trustor, at
                        least, to compel him to buy back all of its stock which he had worked off on
                        the public. I had collected many interesting facts about it, facts typical
                        of the conditions that "finance" has established in so many of our
                        industries.
                    For instance, I was prepared to show that the actual earnings of the Power
                        Trust were two and a half times what its reports to stock-holders alleged;
                        that the concealed profits were diverted into the pockets of Roebuck, his
                        sons, eleven other relatives and four of "The Seven," the lion's share
                        going, of course, to the lion. Like almost all the great industrial
                        enterprises, too strong for the law and too remote for the supervision of
                             their stock-holders, it gathered in
                        enormous revenues to disburse them chiefly in salaries and commissions and
                        rake-offs on contracts to favorites. I had proof that in one year it had
                        "written off" twelve millions of profit and loss, ten millions of which had
                        found its way to Roebuck's pocket. That pocket! That "treasury of the Lord"!
                    Dishonest? Roebuck and most of the other leaders of the various gangs,
                        comprising, with all their ramifications, the principal figures in
                        religious, philanthropic, fashionable society, did not for an instant think
                        their doings dishonest. They had no sense of trusteeship for this money
                        intrusted to them as captains of industry bankers, life-insurance directors.
                        They felt that it was theirs to do with as they pleased.
                    And they felt that their superiority in rank and in brains entitled them to
                        whatever remuneration they could assign to themselves without rousing the
                        wrath of a public too envious to admit the just claims of the "upper
                        classes." They convinced themselves that without them crops would cease to
                        grow, sellers and buyers would be unable to find their way to market,
                        barbarism would spread its rank and choking weeds over the whole garden of
                        civilization. And, so brainless is the parrot 
                        public, they have succeeded in creating a very widespread conviction that
                        their own high opinion of their services is not too high, and that some dire
                        calamity would come if they were swept from between producer and consumer!
                        True, thieves are found only where there is property; but who but a
                        chucklebrain would think the thieves made the property?
                    Roebuck was the keystone of the arch that sustained the structure of chicane.
                        To dislodge him was the direct way to collapse it. I was about to set to
                        work when Langdon, feeling that he ought to have a large supply of cash in
                        the troublous times I was creating, increased the capital stock of his
                        already enormously overcapitalized Textile Trust and offered the new issue
                        to the public. As the Textile Trust was even better bulwarked, politically,
                        than the Power Trust, it was easily able to declare tempting dividends out
                        of its lootings. So the new stock could not be attacked in the one way that
                        would make the public instantly shun itI could not truthfully charge that it
                        would not pay the promised dividends. Yet attack I mustfor that issue was,
                        in effect, a bold challenge of my charges against "The Seven." From all
                        parts of the country inquiries poured in  upon
                        me: "What do you think of the new Textile issue? Shall we invest? Is the
                        Textile Company sound?"
                    I had no choice. I must turn aside from Roebuck; I must first show that,
                        while Textile was, in a sense, sound just at that time, it had been unsound,
                        and would be unsound again as soon as Langdon had gathered in a sufficient
                        number of lambs to make a battue worth the while of a man dealing in nothing
                        less than seven figures. I proceeded to do so.
                    The market yielded slowly. Under my first day's attack Textile preferred fell
                        six points, Textile common three. While I was in the midst of dictating my
                        letter for the second day's attack, I suddenly came to a full stop. I found
                        across my way this thought: "Isn't it strange that Langdon, after humbling
                        himself to you, should make this bold challenge? It's a trap!"
                    "No more at present," said I, to my stenographer. "And don't write out what
                        I've already dictated."
                    I shut myself in and busied myself at the telephone. Half an hour after I set
                        my secret machinery in motion, a messenger brought me an envelop, the
                        address type-written. It contained a  sheet of
                        paper on which appeared, in type-writing, these words, and nothing more:
                    "He is heavily short of Textiles.
                    It was indeed a trap. The new issue was a blind. He had challenged me to
                        attack his stock, and as soon as I did, he had begun secretly to sell it for
                        a fall. I worked at this new situation until midnight, trying to get
                        together the proofs. At that hourfor I could delay no longer, and my proofs
                        were not quite completeI sent my newspapers two sentences:
                    "To-morrow I shall make a disclosure that will send Textiles up. Do not sell
                        Textiles!"
                
                
                
                    XXXIII
                    MRS. LANGDON MAKES A CALL
                    Next day Langdon's stocks wavered, going up a little, going down a little,
                        closing at practically the same figures at which they had opened. Then I
                        sprang my sensationthat Langdon and his particular clique, though they
                        controlled the Textile Trust, did not own so much as one-fiftieth of its
                        voting stock. True "captains of industry" that they were, they made their
                        profits not out of dividends, but out of side schemes that absorbed about
                        two-thirds of the earnings of the Trust, and out of gambling in its bonds
                        and stocks. I said in conclusion:
                    "The largest owner of the stock is Walter G. Edmunds, of Chicagoan honest
                        man. Send your voting proxies to him, and he can take the Textile Company
                        away from those now plundering it."
                    
                    As the annual election of the Trust was only six weeks away, Langdon and his
                        clique were in a panic. They rushed into the market and bought frantically,
                        the public bidding against them. Langdon himself went to Chicago to reason
                        with Edmundsthat is, to try to find out at what figure he could be bought.
                        And so on, day after day, I faithfully reporting to the public the main
                        occurrences behind the scenes. The Langdon attempt to regain control by
                        purchases of stock failed. He and his allies made what must have been to
                        them appalling sacrifices; but even at the high prices they offered,
                        comparatively little of the stock appeared.
                    "I've caught them," said I to Joethe first time, and the last, during that
                        campaign that I indulged in a boast.
                    "If Edmunds sticks to you," replied cautious Joe.
                    But Edmunds did not. I do not know at what price he sold himself. Probably it
                        was pitifully small; cupidity usually snatches the instant bait tickles its
                        nose. But I do know that my faith in human nature got its severest shock.
                    "You are down this morning," said Thornley, when I looked in on him at his
                        bank. "I don't  think I ever before saw you
                        show that you were in low spirits."
                    "I've found out a man with whom I'd have trusted my life," said I. "Sometimes
                        I think all men are dishonest. I've tried to be an optimist like you, and
                        have told myself that most men must be honest or ninety-five per cent. of
                        the business couldn't be done on credit as it is."
                    Thornley smiled, like an old man at the enthusiasm of a youngster. "That
                        proves nothing as to honesty," said he. "It simply shows that men can be
                        counted on to do what it is to their plain interest to do. The truth isand a
                        fine truth, toomost men wish and try to be honest. Give 'em a chance to
                        resist their own weaknesses. Don't trust them. Trustthat's the making of
                        false friends and the filling of jails."
                    "And palaces," I added.
                    "And palaces," assented he. "Every vast fortune is a monument to the
                        credulity of man. Instead of getting after these heavy-laden rascals,
                        Matthew, you'd better have turned your attention to the public that has made
                        rascals of them by leaving its property unguarded."
                    Fortunately, Edmunds had held out, or, rather, Langdon had delayed
                        approaching him, long  enough for me to gain
                        my main point. The uproar over the Textile Trust had become so great that
                        the national Department of Commerce dared not refuse an investigation; and I
                        straightway began to spread out in my daily letters the facts of the Trust's
                        enormous earnings and of the shameful sources of those earnings. Thanks to
                        Langdon's political pull, the president appointed as investigator one of
                        those rascals who carefully build themselves good reputations to enable them
                        to charge higher prices for dirty work. But, with my facts before the
                        people, whitewash was impossible.
                    I was expecting emissaries from Langdon, for I knew he must now be actually
                        in straits. Even the Universal Life didn't dare lend him money; and was
                        trying to call in the millions it had loaned him. But I was astounded when
                        my private door opened and Mrs. Langdon ushered herself in.
                    "Don't blame your boy, Mr. Blacklock," cried she gaily, exasperatingly
                        confident that I was as delighted with her as she was with herself. "I told
                        him you were expecting me and didn't give him a chance to stop me."
                    I assumed she had come to give me wholly undeserved  deserved thanks for revenging her upon her recreant husband. I
                        tried to look civil and courteous, but I felt that my face was darkeningher
                        very presence forced forward things I had been keeping in the far background
                        of my mind. "How can I be of service to you, Madam?" said I.
                    "I bring you good news," she repliedand I noted that she no longer looked
                        haggard and wretched, that her beauty was once more smiling with a certain
                        girlishness, like a young widow's when she finds her consolation. "Mowbray
                        and I have made it up," she explained.
                    I simply listened, probably looking as grim as I felt.
                    "I knew you would be interested," she went on. "Indeed, it means almost as
                        much to you as to me. It brings peace to two families."
                    Still I did not relax.
                    "And so," she continued, a little uneasy, "I came to you immediately."
                    I continued to listen, as if I were waiting for her to finish and depart.
                    "If you want, I'll go to Anita." Natural feminine tact would have saved her
                        from this rawness; but, convinced that she was a "great lady"  by the flattery of servants and shopkeepers
                        and sensational newspapers and social climbers, she had discarded tact as
                        worthy only of the lowly and of the aspiring before they "arrive."
                    "You are too kind," said I. "Mrs. Blacklock and I feel competent to take care
                        of our own affairs."
                    "Please, Mr. Blacklock," she said, realizing that she had blundered, "don't
                        take my directness the wrong way. Life is too short for pose and pretense
                        about the few things that really matter. Why shouldn't we be frank with each
                        other?"
                    "I trust you will excuse me," said I, moving toward the doorI had not seated
                        myself when she did. "I think I have made it clear that we have nothing to
                        discuss."
                    "You have the reputation of being generous and too big for hatred. That is
                        why I have come to you," said she, her expression confirming my suspicion of
                        the real and only reason for her visit. "Mowbray and I are completely
                            reconciledcompletely, you understand. And I want you
                        to be generous, and not keep on with this attack. I am involved even more
                        than he. He has used up his fortune in defending mine. Now,  you are simply trying to ruin menot him, but
                            me. The president is a friend of Mowbray's, and he'll
                        call off this horrid investigation, and everything'll be all right, if
                        you'll only stop."
                    "Who sent you here?" I asked.
                    "I came of my own accord," she protested. Then, realizing from the sound of
                        her voice that she could not have convinced me with a tone so unconvincing,
                        she hedged with: "It was my own suggestion, really it was."
                    "Your husband permitted you to comeand to me?"
                    
                    She flushed.
                    "And you have accepted his overtures when you knew he made them only because
                        he needed your money?"
                    She hung her head. "I love him," she said simply. Then she looked straight at
                        me and I liked her expression. "A woman has no false pride when love is at
                        stake," she said. "We leave that to you men."
                    "Love!" I retorted, rather satirically, I imagine. "How much had your own
                        imperiled fortune to do with your being so forgiving?"
                    "Something," she admitted. "You must remember I have children. I must think
                        of their  future. I don't want them to be
                        poor. I want them to have the station they were born to." She went to one of
                        the windows overlooking the street. "Look here!" she said.
                    I stood beside her. The window was not far above the street level. Just below
                        us was a handsome victoria, coachman, harness, horses, all most proper, a
                        footman rigid at the step. A crowd had gathered roundin those stirring days
                        when I was the chief subject of conversation wherever men were interested in
                        moneyand where are they not?there was almost always a crowd before my
                        offices. In the carriage sat two children, a boy and a girl, hardly more
                        than babies. They were gorgeously overdressed, after the vulgar fashion of
                        aristocrats and apers of aristocracy. They sat stiffly, like little scions
                        of royalty, with that expression of complacent superiority which one so
                        often sees on the faces of the little children of the very richand some not
                        so little, too. The thronging loungers, most of them either immigrant
                        peasants from European caste countries or the un-disinfected sons of
                        peasants, were gaping in true New York "lower class" awe; the children were
                        literally swelling with delighted vanity. If they had been pampered  pet dogs, one would have laughed. As they
                        were human beings, it filled me with sadness and pity. What ignorance, what
                        stupidity to bring up children thus in democratic Americademocratic to-day,
                        inevitably more democratic tomorrow! What a turning away from the light!
                        What a crime against the children!
                    "For their sake, Mr. Blacklock," she pleaded, her mother love wholly hiding
                        from her the features of the spectacle that for me shrieked like scarlet
                        against a white background.
                    "Your husband has deceived you about your fortune, Mrs. Langdon," I said
                        gently, for there is to me something pathetic in ignorance and I was not
                        blaming her for her folly and her crime against her children. "You can tell
                        him what I am about to say, or not, as you please. But my advice is that you
                        keep it to yourself. Even if the present situation develops as seems
                        probable, develops as Mr. Langdon fears, you will not be left without a
                        fortunea very large fortune, most people would think. But Mr. Langdon will
                        have little or nothingindeed, I think he is practically dependent on you
                        now."
                    "What I have is his," she said.
                    "That is generous," replied I, not especially 
                        impressed by a sentiment, the very uttering of which raised a strong doubt
                        of its truth. "But is it prudent? You wish to keep himsecurely. Don't tempt
                        him by a generosity he would only abuse."
                    She thought it over. "The idea of holding a man in that way is repellent to
                        me," said she, now obviously posing.
                    "If the man happens to be one that can be held in no other way," said I,
                        moving significantly toward the door, "one must overcome one's repugnanceor
                        be despoiled and abandoned."
                    "Thank you," she said, giving me her hand. "Thank youmore than I can say."
                        She had forgotten entirely that she came to plead for her husband. "And I
                        hope you will soon be as happy as I am." That last in New York's funniest
                        "great lady" style.
                    I bowed, and when there was the closed door between us, I laughed, not at all
                        pleasantly. "This New York!" I said aloud. "This New York that dabbles its
                        slime of sordidness and snobbishness on every flower in the garden of human
                        nature. New York that destroys pride and substitutes vanity for it. New York
                        with its petty, mischievous class-makers, the pattern for  the rich and the 'smarties' throughout the
                        country. These 'cut-out' minds and hearts, the best of them incapable of
                        growth and calloused wherever the scissors of conventionality have snipped."
                    I took from my pocket the picture of Anita I always carried. "Are you like that?" I demanded of it. And it seemed to answer:
                        "Yes,I am." Did I tear the picture up? No. I kissed it as if it were the
                        magnetic reality. "I don't care what you are!" I cried. "I want you! I want
                        you!"
                    "Fool!" you are saying. Precisely what I called myself. And you? Is it the
                        one you ought to love that you give your heart to? Is it
                        the one that understands you and sympathizes with you? Or is it the one
                        whose presence gives you visions of paradise and whose absence blots out the
                        light?
                    I loved her. Yet I will say this much for myself: I still would not have
                        taken her on any terms that did not make her really mine.
                
                
                
                    XXXIV
                    "MY RIGHT EYE OFFENDS ME"
                    Now that Updegraff is dead, I am free to tell of our relations.
                    My acquaintance with him was more casual than with any other of "The Seven."
                        From the outset of my career I made it a rule never to deal with
                        understrappers, always to get in touch with the man who had the final say.
                        Thus, as the years went by, I grew into intimacy with the great men of
                        finance where many with better natural facilities for knowing them remained
                        in an outer circle. But with Updegraff, interested only in enterprises west
                        of the Mississippi and keeping Denver as his legal residence and exploiting
                        himself as a Western man who hated Wall Street, I had a mere bowing
                        acquaintance. This was unimportant, however, as each knew the other well by
                        reputation. Our common intimacies made us intimates for all practical
                        purposes.
                    
                    Our connection was established soon after the development of my campaign
                        against the Textile Trust had shown that I was after a big bag of the
                        biggest game. We happened to have the same secret broker; and I suppose it
                        was in his crafty brain that the idea of bringing us together was born. Be
                        that as it may, he by gradual stages intimated to me that Updegraff would
                        convey me secrets of "The Seven" in exchange for a guarantee that I would
                        not attack his interests. I do not know what his motive in this treachery
                        wasprobably a desire to curb the power of his associates in industrial
                        despotism.
                    Each of "The Seven" hated and feared and suspected the other six with far
                        more than the ordinary and proverbial rich man's jealous dislike of other
                        rich men. There was not one of them that did not bear the ever-smarting
                        scars of vicious wounds, front and back, received from his fellows; there
                        was not one that did not cherish the hope of overthrowing the rule of Seven
                        and establishing the rule of One. At any rate, I accepted Updegraff's
                        proposition; henceforth, though he stopped speaking to me when we happened
                        to meet, as did all the other big bandits and most of their parasites and
                        procurers, he  kept me informed of every act
                        "The Seven" resolved upon.
                    Thus I knew all about their "gentlemen's agreement" to support the stock
                        market, and that they had made Tavistock their agent for resisting any and
                        all attempts to lower prices, and had given him practically unlimited funds
                        to draw upon as he needed. I had Tavistock sounded on every side, but found
                        no weak spot. There was no rascality he would not perpetrate for whoever
                        employed him; but to his employer he was as loyal as a woman to a bad man.
                        And for a time it looked as if "The Seven" had checkmated me. Those
                        outsiders who had invested heavily in the great enterprises through which
                        "The Seven" ruled were disposing of their holdingscautiously, through fear
                        of breaking the market. Money would pile up in the banksmoney paid out by
                        "The Seven" for their bonds and stocks, of which the people had become
                        deeply suspicious. Then these deposits would be withdrawnand I knew they
                        were going into real estate investments, because news of booms in real
                        estate and in building was coming in from everywhere. But prices on the
                        Stock Exchange continued to advance.
                    
                    "They are too strong for you," said Joe. "They will hold the market up until
                        the public loses faith in you. Then they will sell out at top-notch prices
                        as the people rush in to buy."
                    I might have wavered had I not been seeing Tavistock every day. He continued
                        to wear his devil-may-care air; but I observed that he was aging swiftlyand
                        I knew what that meant. Fighting all day to prevent breaks in the crucial
                        stocks; planning most of the night how to prevent breaks the next day;
                        watching the reserve resources of "The Seven" melt away. Those reserves were
                        vast; also, "The Seven" controlled the United States Treasury, and were
                        using its resources as their own; they were buying securities that would be
                        almost worthless if they lost, but if they won, would be rebought by the
                        public at the old swindling prices, when "confidence" was restored. But
                        there was I, cannonading incessantly from my impregnable position; as fast
                        as they repaired breaches in their walls, my big guns of publicity tore new
                        breaches. No wonder Tavistock had thinner hair and wrinkles and a drawn look
                        about the eyes, nose and mouth.
                    With the battle thus raging all along the line,  on the one side "The Seven" and their armies of money and mercenaries and
                        impressed slaves, on the other side the public, I in command, you will say
                        that my yearning for distraction must have been gratified. If the road from
                        his cell were long enough, the condemned man would be fretting less about
                        the gallows than about the tight shoe that was making him limp and wince at
                        every step. Besides, in human affairs it is the personal, always the
                        personal. I soon got used to the crowds, to the big head-lines in the
                        newspapers, to the routine of cannonade and reply. But the old thorn,
                        pressing persistentlyI could not get used to that. In the midst of the
                        adulation, of the blares upon the trumpets of fame that saluted my waking
                        and were wafted to me as I fell asleep at nightin the midst of all the
                        turmoil, I was often in a great and brooding silence, longing for her, now
                        with the imperious energy of passion, and now with the sad ache of love.
                        What was she doing? What was she thinking? Now that Langdon had again played
                        her false for the old price, with what eyes was she looking into the future?
                    Alva, settled in a West Side apartment not far from the ancestral white
                        elephant, telephoned,  asking me to come. I
                        went, because she could and would give me news of Anita. But as I entered
                        her little drawing-room, I said: "It was curiosity that brought me. I wished
                        to see how you were installed."
                    "Isn't it nice and small?" cried she. "Billy and I haven't the slightest
                        difficulty in finding each otheras people so often have in the big houses."
                        And it was Billy this and Billy that, and what Billy said and thought and
                        feltand before they were married, she had called him William, and had
                        declared "Billy" to be the most offensive combination of letters that ever
                        fell from human lips.
                    "I needn't ask if you are happy," said I presently, with a
                        dismal failure at looking cheerful. "I can't stay but a moment," I added,
                        and if I had obeyed my feelings, I'd have risen up and taken myself and my
                        pain away from surroundings as hateful to me as a summer sunrise in a
                        death-chamber.
                    "Oh!" she exclaimed, in some confusion. "Then excuse me." And she hastened
                        from the room.
                    I thought she had gone to order, or perhaps to bring, the tea. The long
                        minutes dragged  away until ten had passed.
                        Hearing a rustling in the hall, I rose, intending to take leave the instant
                        she appeared. The rustling stopped just outside. I waited a few seconds,
                        cried, "Well, I'm off. Next time I want to be alone, I'll know where to
                        come," and advanced to the door. It was not Alva hesitating there; it was
                        Anita.
                    "I beg your pardon," said I coldly.
                    If there had been room to pass I should have gone. What devil possessed me?
                        Certainly in all our relations I had found her direct and frank, if
                        anything, too frank. Doubtless it was the influence of my associations down
                        town, where for so many months I had been dealing with the "short-card"
                        crowd of high finance, who would hardly play the game straight even when
                        that was the easy way to win. My long, steady stretch in that stealthy and
                        sinuous company had put me in the state of mind in which it is impossible to
                        credit any human being with a motive that is decent or an action that is not
                        a dead-fall. Thus the obvious transformation in her made no impression on
                        me. Her haughtiness, her coldness, were gone, and with them had gone all
                        that had been least like her natural self, most like the repellent
                        conventional pattern to which her  mother and
                        her associates had molded her. But I was saying to myself: "A trap! Langdon
                        has gone back to his wife. She turns to me." And I loved her and hated her.
                        "Never," thought I, "has she shown so poor an opinion of me as now."
                    "My uncle told me day before yesterday that it was not he but you," she said,
                        lifting her eyes to mine. It is inconceivable to me now that I could have
                        misread their honest story; yet I did.
                    "I had no idea your uncle's notion of honor was also eccentric," said I, with
                        a satirical smile that made the blood rush to her face.
                    "That is unjust to him," she replied earnestly.
                    "He says he made you no promise of secrecy. And he confessed to me only
                        because he wished to convince me that he had good reason for his high
                        opinion of you."
                    "Really!" said I ironically. "And no doubt he found you open wide to
                            convictionnow." This a subtlety to let her know that I
                        understood why she was seeking me.
                    "No," she answered, lowering her eyes. "I knewbetter than he."
                    For an instant this, spoken in a voice I had 
                        long given up hope of ever hearing from her, staggered my cynical
                        conviction. But"Possibly she thinks she is sincere," reasoned my head with
                        my heart; "even the sincerest women, brought up as was she, always have the
                        calculator underneath; they deny it, they don't know it often, but there it
                        is; with them, calculation is as involuntary and automatic as their pulse."
                        So, I said to her, mockingly: "Doubtless your opinion of me has been
                        improving steadily ever since you heard that Mrs. Langdon had recovered her
                        husband."
                    She winced, as if I had struck her. "Oh!" she murmured. If she had been the
                        ordinary woman, who in every crisis with man instinctively resorts to
                        weakness' strongest weakness, tears, I might have a different story to tell.
                        But she fought back the tears in which her eyes were swimming and gathered
                        herself together. "That is brutal," she said, with not a touch of
                        haughtiness, but not humbly, either. "But I deserve it."
                    "There was a time," I went on, swept in a swift current of cold rage, "there
                        was a time when I would have taken you on almost any terms. A man never
                        makes a complete fool of himself about a woman but once in his life, they
                        say. I have done my stretchand it is over."
                    
                    She sighed wearily. "Langdon came to see me soon after I left your house, and
                        went to my uncle," she said. "I will tell you what happened."
                    "I do not wish to hear," replied I, adding pointedly, "I have been waiting
                        ever since you left for news of your plans."
                    She grew white, and my heart smote me. She came into the room and seated
                        herself. "Won't you stop, please, for a moment longer?" she said. "I hope
                        that, at, least, we can part without bitterness. I understand now that
                        everything is over between us. A woman's vanity makes her belief that a man
                        cares for her die hard. I am convinced nowI assure you, I am. I shall
                        trouble you no more about the past. But I have the right to ask you to hear
                        me when I say that Langdon came, and that I myself sent him away; sent him
                        back to his wife."
                    "Touching self-sacrifice," said I ironically.
                    "No," she replied. "I can not claim any credit. I sent him away only because
                        you and Alva had taught me how to judge him better. I do not despise him as
                        do you; I know too well what has made him what he is. But I had to send him
                        away."
                    
                    My comment was an incredulous look and shrug. "I must be going," I said.
                    "You do not believe me?" she asked.
                    "In my place, would you believe?" replied I. "You say I have taught you.
                        Well, you have taught me, toofor instance, that the years you've spent on
                        your knees in the musty temple of conventionality before false gods have
                        made youfit only for the Langdon sort of thing. You can't learn how to stand
                        erect, and your eyes can not bear the light."
                    "I am sorry," she said slowly, hesitatingly, "that your faith in me died just
                        when I might, perhaps, have justified it. Ours has been a pitiful series of
                        misunderstandings."
                    "A trap! A trap!" I was warning myself. "You've been a fool long enough,
                        Blacklock." And aloud I said: "Well, Anita, the series is ended now. There's
                        no longer any occasion for our lying or posing to each other. Any
                        arrangements your uncle's lawyers suggest will be made."
                    I was bowing, to leave without shaking hands with her. But she would not have
                        it so. "Please!" she said, stretching out her long, slender arm and offering
                        me her hand.
                    What a devil possessed me that day! With  every
                        atom of me longing for her, I yet was able to take her hand and say, with a
                        smile, that was, I doubt not, as mocking as my tone: "By all means let us be
                        friends. And I trust you will not think me discourteous if I say that I
                        shall feel safer in our friendship when we are both on neutral ground."
                    As I was turning away, her look, my own heart, made me turn again. I caught
                        her by the shoulders. I gazed into her eyes. "If I could only trust you,
                        could only believe you!" I cried.
                    "You cared for me when I wasn't worth it," she said. "Now that I am more like
                        what you once imagined me, you do not care."
                    Up between us rose Langdon's facecynical, mocking, contemptuous. "Your heart
                        is his! You told me so! Don't lie to
                        me!" I exclaimed. And before she could reply, I was gone.
                    Out from under the spell of her presence, back among the tricksters and
                        assassins, the traps and ambushes of Wall Street, I believed again; believed
                        firmly the promptings of the devil that possessed me. "She would have given
                        you a brief fool's paradise," said that devil. "Then what a hideous
                        awakening!" And I cursed the day when New York's insidious snobbishness had
                             tempted my vanity into starting me on
                        that degrading chase after "respectability."
                    "If she does not move to free herself soon," said I to myself, "I will put my
                        own lawyer to work. My right eye offends me. I will pluck it out."
                
                
                
                    XXXV
                    "WILD WEEK"
                    "The Seven" made their fatal move on treacherous Updegraff's treacherous
                        advice, I suspect. But they would not have adopted his suggestion had it not
                        been so exactly congenial to their own temper of arrogance and tyranny and
                        contempt for the people who meekly, year after year, presented themselves
                        for the shearing with fatuous bleats of enthusiasm.
                    "The Seven," of course, controlled directly, or indirectly, all but a few of
                        the newspapers with which I had advertising contracts. They also controlled
                        the main sources through which the press was supplied with newsand often and
                        well they had used this control, and surprisingly cautious had they been not
                        so to abuse it that the editors and the public would become suspicious. When
                        my war was at its height, when I was beginning to congratulate myself that
                        the huge magazines of "The Seven" were empty almost  to the point at which they must sue for peace on my own terms,
                        all in four days forty-three of my sixty-seven newspapersand they the most
                        importantnotified me that they would no longer carry out their contracts to
                        publish my daily letter. They gave as their reason, not the real one, fear
                        of "The Seven," but fear that I would involve them in ruinous libel suits. I
                        who had legal proof for every statement I made; I who was
                        always careful to understate! Next, one press association after another
                        ceased to send out my letter as news, though they had been doing so
                        regularly for months. The public had grown tired of the "sensation," they
                        said.
                    I countered with a telegram to one or more newspapers in every city and large
                        town in the United States:
                    " 'The Seven' are trying to cut the wires between the truth and the public.
                        If you wish my daily letter, telegraph me direct and I will send it at my
                        expense."
                    The response should have warned "The Seven." But it did not. Under their
                        orders the telegraph companies refused to transmit the letter. I got an
                        injunction. It was obeyed in typical, corrupt corporation fashionthey sent
                        my  matter, but so garbled that it was
                        unintelligible. I appealed to the courts. In vain.
                    To me, it was clear as sun in cloudless noonday sky that there could be but
                        one result of this insolent and despotic denial of my rights and the rights
                        of the people, this public confession of the truth of my charges. I turned
                        everything salable or mortgageable into cash, locked the cash up in my
                        private vaults, and waited for the cataclysm.
                    ThursdayFridaySaturday. Apparently all was tranquil; apparently the people
                        accepted the Wall Street theory that I was an "exploded sensation." "The
                        Seven" began to preen themselves; the strain upon them to maintain prices,
                        if no less than for three months past, was not notably greater; the crisis
                        would pass, I and my exposures would be forgotten, the routine of reaping
                        the harvests and leaving only the gleanings for the sowers would soon be
                        placidly resumed.
                    Sunday. Roebuck, taken ill as he was passing the basket in the church of
                        which he was the shining light, died at midnighta beautiful, peaceful death,
                        they say, with his daughter reading the Bible aloud, and his lips moving in
                        prayer. Some hold that, had he lived, the tranquillity  would have continued; but this is the view of those who can
                        not realize that the tide of affairs is no more controlled by the "great
                        men" than is the river led down to the sea by its surface flotsam, by which
                        we measure the speed and direction of its current. Under that terrific
                        tension, which to the shallow seemed a calm, something had to give way. If
                        the dam had not yielded where Roebuck stood guard, it must have yielded
                        somewhere else, or might have gone all in one grand crash.
                    Monday. You know the story of the artist and his Statue of Griefhow he molded
                        the features a hundred times, always failing, always getting an anti-climax,
                        until at last in despair he gave up the impossible and finished the statue
                        with a veil over the face. I have tried again and again to assemble words
                        that would give some not too inadequate impression of that tremendous week
                        in which, with a succession of explosions, each like the crack of doom, the
                        financial structure that housed eighty millions of people burst, collapsed,
                        was engulfed. I can not. I must leave it to your memory or your imagination.
                    For years the financial leaders, crazed by the 
                        excess of power which the people had in ignorance and over-confidence and
                        slovenly good-nature permitted them to acquire, had been tearing out the
                        honest foundations on which alone so vast a structure can hope to rest solid
                        and secure. They had been substituting rotten beams painted to look like
                        stone and iron. The crash had to come; the sooner, the betterwhen a thing is
                        wrong, each day's delay compounds the cost of righting it. So, with all the
                        horrors of "Wild Week" in mind, all its physical and mental suffering, all
                        its ruin and rioting and bloodshed, I still can insist that I am justly
                        proud of my share in bringing it about. The blame and the shame are wholly
                        upon those who made "Wild Week" necessary and inevitable.
                    In catastrophes, the cry is "Each for himself!" But in a cataclysm, the
                        obvious wise selfishness is generosity, and the cry is, "Stand together,
                        for, singly, we perish." This was a cataclysm. No one could save himself,
                        except the few who, taking my often-urged advice and following my example,
                        had entered the ark of ready money. Farmer and artisan and professional man
                        and laborer owed merchant; merchant owed banker; banker owed depositor. No
                        one could pay because  no one could get what
                        was due him or could realize upon his property. The endless chain of credit
                        that binds together the whole of modern society had snapped in a thousand
                        places. It must be repaired, instantly and securely. But howand by whom?
                    I issued a clear statement of the situation; I showed in minute detail how
                        the people standing together under the leadership of the honest men of
                        property could easily force the big bandits to consent to an honest, just,
                        rock-founded, iron-built reconstruction. My statement appeared in all the
                        morning papers throughout the land. Turn back to it; read it. You will say
                        that I was right. Well
                    Toward two o'clock Inspector Crawford came into my private office, escorted
                        by Joe. I saw in Joe's seamed, green-gray face that some new danger had
                        arisen. "You've got to get out of this," said he. "The mob in front of our
                        place fills the three streets. It's made up of crowds turned away from the
                        suspended banks."
                    I remembered the sullen faces and the hisses as I entered the office that
                        morning earlier than usual. My windows were closed to keep out the street
                        noises; but now that my mind was up  from the
                        work in which I had been absorbed, I could hear the sounds of many voices,
                        even through the thick plate glass.
                    "We've got two hundred policemen here," said the inspector. "Five hundred
                        more are on the way. Butreally, Mr. Blacklock, unless we can get you away,
                        there'll be serious trouble. Those damn newspapers! Every one of them
                        denounced you this morning, and the people are in a fury against you."
                    I went toward the door.
                    "Hold on, Matt!" cried Joe, springing at me and seizing me, "Where are you
                        going?"
                    "To tell them what I think of them," replied I, sweeping him aside. For my
                        blood was up, and I was enraged against the poor cowardly fools.
                    "For God's sake don't show yourself!" he begged. "If you don't care for your
                        own life, think of the rest of us. We've fixed a route through buildings and
                        under streets up to Broadway. Your electric is waiting for you there."
                    "It won't do," I said. "I'll face 'emit's the only way."
                    I went to the window, and was about to throw up one of the sunblinds for a
                        look at them; Crawford stopped me. "They'll stone the building  and then storm it," said he. "You must go at
                        once, by the route we've arranged."
                    "Even if you tell them I'm gone, they won't believe it," replied I.
                    "We can look out for that," said Joe, eager to save me, and caring nothing
                        about consequences to himself. But I had unsettled the inspector.
                    "Send for my electric to come down here," said I. "I'll go out alone and get
                        in it and drive away."
                    "That'll never do!" cried Joe.
                    But the inspector said: "You're right, Mr. Blacklock. It's a bare chance. You
                        may take 'em by surprise. Again, some fellow may yell and throw a stone and"
                        He did not need to finish.
                    Joe looked wildly at me. "You mustn't do it, Matt!" he exclaimed. "You'll
                        precipitate a riot, Crawford, if you permit this."
                    But the inspector was telephoning for my electric. Then he went into the
                        adjoining room, where he commanded a view of the entrance. Silence between
                        Joe and me until he returned.
                    "The electric is coming down the street," said he.
                    I rose. "Good," said I. "I'm ready."
                    
                    "Wait until the other police get here," advised Crawford.
                    "If the mob is in the temper you describe." said I, "the less that's done to
                        irritate it the better. I must go out as if I hadn't a suspicion of danger."
                    The inspector eyed me with an expression that was highly flattering to my
                        vanity.
                    "I'll go with you," said Joe, starting up from his stupor.
                    "No," I replied. "You and the other fellows can take the underground route,
                        if it's necessary."
                    "It won't be necessary," put in the inspector. "As soon as I'm rid of you and
                        have my additional force, I'll clear the streets." He went to the door.
                        "Wait, Mr. Blacklock, until I've had time to get out to my men."
                    Perhaps ten seconds after he disappeared, I, without further words, put on my
                        hat, lit a cigar, shook Joe's wet, trembling hand, left in it my private
                        keys and the memorandum of the combination of my private vault. Then I
                        sallied forth.
                    I had always had a ravenous appetite for excitement, and I had been in many a
                        tight place; but for the first time there seemed to me to be an equilibrium
                        between my internal energy and the  outside
                        situation. As I stepped from my street door and glanced about me, I had no
                        feeling of danger. The whole situation seemed so simple. There stood the
                        electric, just across the narrow stretch of sidewalk; there were the two
                        hundred police, under Crawford's orders, scattered everywhere through the
                        crowd, and good-naturedly jostling and pushing to create distraction.
                        Without haste, I got into my machine. I calmly met the gaze of those
                        thousands, quiet as so many barrels of gunpowder before the explosion. The
                        chauffeur turned the machine.
                    "Go slow," I called to him. "You might hurt somebody."
                    But he had his orders from the inspector. He suddenly darted ahead at full
                        speed. The mob scattered in every direction, and we were in Broadway, bound
                        up town full-tilt, before I or the mob realized what he was about.
                    I called to him to slow down. He paid not the slightest attention. I leaned
                        from the window and looked up at him. It was not my chauffeur; it was a man
                        who had the unmistakable but indescribable marks of the plain-clothes
                        policeman.
                    "Where are you going?" I shouted.
                    
                    "You'll find out when we arrive," he shouted back, grinning.
                    I settled myself and waitedwhat else was there to do? Soon I guessed we were
                        headed for the pier off which my yacht was anchored. As we dashed on to it,
                        I saw that it was filled with police, both in uniform and in plain clothes.
                        I descended. A detective sergeant stepped up to me. "We are here to help you
                        to your yacht," he explained. "You wouldn't be safe anywhere in New Yorkno
                        more would the place that harbored you."
                    He had both common sense and force on his side. I got into the launch. Four
                        detective sergeants accompanied me and went aboard with me. "Go ahead," said
                        one of them to my captain. He looked at me for orders.
                    "We are in the hands of our guests," said I. "Let them have their way."
                    We steamed down the bay and out to sea.
                    From Maine to Texas the cry rose and swelled: "Blacklock is responsible! What
                        does it matter whether he lied or told the truth? See the results of his
                        crusade! He ought to be pilloried! He ought to be killed! He is the enemy of
                        the  human race. He has almost plunged the
                        whole civilized world into bankruptcy and civil war." And they turned
                        eagerly to the very autocrats who had been oppressing them. "You have the
                        genius for finance and industry. Save us!"
                    If you did not know, you could guess how those patriots with the "genius for
                        finance and industry" responded. When they had done, when their program was
                        in effect, Langdon, Melville and Updegraff were the three richest men in the
                        country, and as powerful as Octavius, Antony and Lepidus after Philippi.
                        They had saddled upon the reorganized finance and industry of the nation
                        heavier taxes than ever, and a vaster and more expensive and more luxurious
                        army of their parasites.
                    The people had risen for financial and industrial freedom; they had paid its
                        fearful price; then, in senseless panic and terror, they flung it away. I
                        have read that one of the inscriptions on Apollo's temple at Delphi was,
                        "Man, the fool of the farce." Truly, the gods must have created us for their
                        amusement; and when Olympus palls, they ring up the curtain on some such
                        screaming comedy as was that. It "makes the fancy chuckle, while the heart
                        doth ache."
                
                
                
                    XXXVI
                    "BLACK MATT'S" TRIUMPH
                    My enemies caused it to be widely believed that "Wild Week" was my deliberate
                        contrivance for the sole purpose of enriching myself. Thus they got me a
                        reputation for almost superhuman daring, for satanic astuteness at
                        cold-blooded calculation. I do not deserve the admiration and respect that
                        my success-worshiping fellow countrymen lay at my feet. True, I did greatly
                        enrich myself; but not until the Monday after Wild Week.
                    
                    Not until I had pondered on men and events with the assistance of the
                        newspapers my detective protectors and jailers permitted to be brought
                        aboardnot until the last hope of turning Wild Week to the immediate public
                        advantage had sputtered out like a lost man's last match, did I think of
                        benefiting myself, of seizing the opportunity to strengthen myself for the
                        future. On Monday morning, I said to Sergeant Mulholland;  "I want to go ashore at once and send some
                        telegrams."
                    The sergeant is one of the detective bureau's "dress-suit men." He is by
                        nature phlegmatic and cynical. His experience has put over that a veneer of
                        weary politeness. We had become great friends during our enforced
                        inseparable companionship. For Joe, who looked on me somewhat as a mother
                        looks on a brilliant but erratic son, had, as I soon discovered, elaborated
                        a wonderful program for me. It included a watch on me day and night, lest,
                        through rage or despondency, I should try to do violence to myself. A fine
                        character, that Joe! But, to return, Mulholland answered my request for
                        shore-leave with a soothing smile. "Can't do it, Mr. Blacklock," he said.
                        "Our orders are positive. But when we put in at New London and send ashore
                        for further instructions, and for the papers, you can send in your
                        messages."
                    "As you please," said I. And I gave him a cipher telegram to Joean order to
                        invest my store of cash, which meant practically my whole fortune, in the
                        gilt-edged securities that were to be had for cash at a small fraction of
                        their value.
                    This on the Monday after Wild Week, please 
                        note. I would have helped the people to deliver themselves from the bondage
                        of the bandits. They would not have it. I would even have sacrificed my all
                        in trying to save them in spite of themselves. But what is one sane man
                        against a stampeded multitude of maniacs? For confirmation of my
                        disinterestedness, I point to all those weeks and months during which I
                        waged costly warfare on "The Seven," who would gladly have given me more
                        than I now have, could I have been bribed to desist. But, when I was
                        compelled to admit that I had overestimated my fellow men, that the people
                        wear the yoke because they have not yet become intelligent and competent
                        enough to be free, then and not until then did I abandon the hopeless
                        struggle.
                    And I did not go over to the bandits; I simply resumed my own neglected
                        personal affairs and made Wild Week at least a personal triumph.
                    There is nothing of the spectacular in my make-up. I have no belief in the
                        value of martyrs and martyrdom. Causes are not wonand in my humble opinion
                        never have been wonin the graveyards. Alive and afoot and armed, and true to
                        my cause, I am the dreaded menace to systematic and respectable robbery.
                        What possible  good could have come of mobs
                        killing me and the bandits dividing my estate?
                    But why should I seek to justify myself? I care not a rap for the opinion of
                        my fellow men. They sought my life when they should have been hailing me as
                        a deliverer; now, they look up to me because they falsely believe me guilty
                        of an infamy.
                    My guards expected to be recalled on Tuesday. But Melville heard what
                        Crawford had done about me, and straightway used his influence to have me
                        detained until the new grip of the old gang was secure. Saturday afternoon
                        we put in at Newport for the daily communication with the shore. When the
                        launch returned, Mulholland brought the papers to me, lounging aft in a mass
                        of cushions under the awning. "We are going ashore," said he. "The order has
                        come."
                    I had a sudden sense of loneliness. "I'll take you down to New York," said I.
                        "I prefer to land my guests where I shipped them."
                    As we steamed slowly westward I read the papers. The country was rapidly
                        readjusting itself, was returning to the conditions before the upheaval. The
                        "financiers"the same old gang, except for a few of the weaker brethren  ruined and a few strong outsiders, who had
                        slipped in during the confusionwere employing all the old, familiar devices
                        for deceiving and robbing the people. The upset milking-stool was righted,
                        and the milker was seated again and busy, the good old cow standing without
                        so much as shake of horn or switch of tail. "Mulholland," said I, "what do
                        you think of this business of living?"
                    "I'll tell you, Mr. Blacklock," said he. "I used to fuss and fret a good deal
                        about it. But I don't any more. I've got a house up in the Bronx, and a bit
                        of land round it. And there's Mrs. Mulholland and four little Mulhollands
                        and methat's my country and my party and my religion. The rest is off my
                        beat, and I don't give a damn for it. I don't care which fakir gets to be
                        president, or which swindler gets to be rich. Everything works out somehow,
                        and the best any man can do is to mind his own business."
                    "MulhollandMrs. Mulhollandfour little Mulhollands," said I reflectively.
                        "That's about as much as one man could attend to properly. Andyou are 'on
                        the level,' aren't you?"
                    "Some say honesty's the best policy," replied he. "Some say it isn't. I don't
                        know, and I  don't care, whether it is or it
                        isn't. It's my policy. And we six seem to have got along
                        on it so far."
                    I sent my "guests" ashore the next morning.
                    "No, I'll stay aboard," said I to Mulholland, as he stood aside for me to
                        precede him down the gangway from the launch. I went into the watch-pocket
                        of my trousers and drew out the folded two one-thousand-dollar bills I
                        always carriedit was a habit formed in my youthful, gambling days. I handed
                        him one of the bills. He hesitated.
                    "For the four little Mulhollands," I urged.
                    He put it in his pocket. I watched him and his men depart with a heavy heart.
                        I felt alone, horribly alone, without a tie or an interest. Some of the
                        morning papers spoke respectfully of me as one of the strong men who had
                        ridden the flood and had been landed by it on the heights of wealth and
                        power. Admiration and envy lurked even in sneers at my "unscrupulous
                        plotting." Since I had wealth, plenty of wealth, I did not need character.
                        Of what use was character in such a world except as a commodity to exchange
                        for wealth?
                    "Any orders, sir?" interrupted my captain.
                    
                    I looked round that vast and vivid scene of sea and land activities. I looked
                        along the city's titanic sky-linethe mighty fortresses of trade and commerce
                        piercing the heavens and flinging to the wind their black banners of
                        defiance. I felt that I was under the walls of hell itself.
                    "To get away from this," replied I to the waiting captain. "Go back down the
                        Soundto Dawn Hill."
                    Yes, I would go to the peaceful, soothing country, to my dogs and horses and
                        those faithful servants bound to me by our common love for the same animals.
                        "Men to cross swords with, to amuse oneself with," I mused; "but dogs and
                        horses to live with." I pictured myself at the kennelsthe joyful uproar the
                        instant instinct warned the dogs of my coming; how they would leap and bark
                        and tremble in a very ecstasy of delight as I stood among them; how jealous
                        all the others would be, as I selected one to caress.
                    "Send her ahead as fast as she'll go," I called to the captain.
                    As the Albatross steamed into the little harbor, I saw
                        Mowbray Langdon's Indolence at anchor. I glanced toward
                        Steuben Pointwhere his cousins, the Vivians, livedand thought I recognized
                             his launch at their pier. We saluted the
                            Indolence; the Indolence saluted us.
                        My launch was piped away and took me ashore. I strolled along the path that
                        wound round the base of the hill toward the kennels. At the crossing of the
                        path down from the house, I paused and lingered on the glimpse of one of the
                        corner towers of the great showy palace. I was muttering somethingI listened
                        to myself. It was: "Mulholland, Mrs. Mulholland and the four little
                        Mulhollands." And I felt like laughing aloud, such a joke was it that I
                        should be envying a policeman his potato patch and his fat wife and his four
                        brats, and that he should be in a position to pity me.
                    You may be imagining that, through all, Anita had been dominating my mind.
                        That is the way it is in the romances; but not in life. No doubt there are
                        men who brood upon the impossible, and moon and maunder away their lives
                        over the grave of a dead love; no doubt there are people who will say that,
                        because I did not shoot Langdon or her, or myself, or fly to a desert or
                        pose in the crowded places of the world as the last scene of a tragedy, I
                        therefore cared little about her. I offer them this suggestion: A man strong
                             enough to give a love worth a woman's
                        while is strong enough to live on without her when he finds he may not live
                        with her.
                    As I stood there that summer day, looking toward the crest of the hill, at
                        the mocking mausoleum of my dead dream, I realized what the incessant battle
                        of the Street had meant to me. "There is peace for me only in the storm,"
                        said I. "But, thank God, there is peace for me somewhere."
                    Through the foliage I had glimpses of some one coming slowly down the zigzag
                        path. Presently, at one of the turnings half-way up the hill, appeared
                        Mowbray Langdon. "What is he doing here," thought I, scarcely able to
                        believe my eyes. "Here of all places!" And then I forgot the strangeness of
                        his being at Dawn Hill in the strangeness of his expression. For it was
                        apparent, even at the distance which separated us, that he was suffering
                        from some great and recent blow. He looked old and haggard; he walked like a
                        man who neither knows nor cares where he is going.
                    He had not seen me, and my impulse was to avoid him by continuing on toward
                        the kennels. I had no especial feeling against him; I  had not lost Anita because she cared for him or he for her,
                        but because she did not care for mesimply that to meet would be awkward,
                        disagreeable for us both. At the slight noise of my movement to go on, he
                        halted, glanced round eagerly, as if he hoped the sound had been made by
                        some one he wished to see. His glance fell on me. He stopped short, was for
                        an instant disconcerted; then his face lighted up with devilish joy. "You!"
                        he cried. "Just the man!" And he descended more rapidly.
                    At first I could make nothing of this remark. But as he drew nearer and
                        nearer, and his ugly mood became more and more apparent, I felt that he was
                        looking forward to provoking me into giving him a distraction from whatever
                        was tormenting him. I waited. A few minutes and we were face to face, I
                        outwardly calm, but my anger slowly lighting up as he deliberately applied
                        to it the torch of his insolent eyes. He was wearing his old familiar air of
                        cynical assurance. Evidently, with his recovered fortune, he had recovered
                        his conviction of his great superiority to the rest of the human racethe
                        child had climbed back on the chair that made it tall and had forgotten its
                        tumble. And I was wondering again that  I, so
                        short a time before, had been crude enough to be fascinated and fooled by
                        those tawdry posings and pretenses. For the man, as I now saw him, was
                        obviously shallow and vain, a slave to those poor "man-of-the-world"
                        passionsostentation and cynicism and skill at vices old as mankind and
                        tedious as a treadmill, the commonplace routine of the idle and foolish and
                        purposeless. A clever, handsome fellow, but the more pitiful that he was by
                        nature above the uses to which he prostituted himself.
                    He fought hard to keep his eyes steadily on mine; but they would waver and
                        shift. Not, however, before I had found deep down in them the beginnings of
                        fear. "You see, you were mistaken," said I. "You have nothing to say to meor
                        I to you."
                    He knew I had looked straight to the bottom of his real self, and had seen
                        the coward that is in every man who has been bred to appearances only. Up
                        rose his vanity, the coward's substitute for courage.
                    "You think I am afraid of you?" he sneered, bluffing and blustering like the
                        school bully.
                    "I don't in the least care whether you are or 
                        not," replied I. "What are you doing here, anyhow?"
                    It was as if I had thrown off the cover of a furnace. "I came to get the
                        woman I love," he cried. "You stole her from me! You tricked me! But, by
                        God, Blacklock, I'll never pause until I get her back and punish you!" He
                        was brave enough now, drunk with the fumes from his brave words. "All my
                        life," he raged arrogantly on, "I've had whatever I wanted. I've let nothing
                        interferenothing and nobody. I've been too forbearing with youfirst, because
                        I knew she could never care for you, and, then, because I rather admired
                        your pluck and impudence. I like to see fellows kick their way up among us
                        from the common people."
                    I put my hand on his shoulder. No doubt the fiend that rose within me, as
                        from the dead, looked at him from my eyes. He has great physical strength,
                        but he winced under that weight and grip, and across his face flitted the
                        terror that must come to any man at first sense of being in the angry clutch
                        of one stronger than he. I slowly released himI had tested and realized my
                        physical superiority; to use it would be cheap and cowardly.
                    
                    "You can't provoke me to descend to your level," said I, with the easy
                        philosophy of him who clearly has the better of the argument.
                    He was shaking from head to foot, not with terror, but with impotent rage.
                        How much we owe to accident! The mere accident of my physical superiority
                        had put him at hopeless disadvantage; had made him feel inferior to me as no
                        victory of mental or moral superiority could possibly have done. And I
                        myself felt a greater contempt for him than the discovery of his treachery
                        and his shallowness had together inspired.
                    "I shan't indulge in flapdoodle," I went on. "I'll be frank. A year ago, if
                        any man had faced me with a claim upon a woman who was married to me, I'd
                        probably have dealt with him as your vanity and what you call 'honor' would
                        force you to try to deal with a similar situation. But I live to learn, and
                        I'm, fortunately, not afraid to follow a new light. There is the vanity of
                        so-called honor; there is also the demand of justiceof fair play. As I have
                        told her, so I now tell youshe is free to go. But I shall say one thing to
                        you that I did not say to her. If you do not deal fairly with her, I shall
                        see to it that there are ten thorns to every rose in that bed of roses on
                             which you lie. You are contemptible in
                        many waysperhaps that's why women like you. But there must be some good in
                        you, or possibilities of good, or you could not have won and kept her love."
                    He was staring at me with a dazed expression. I rather expected him to show
                        some of that amused contempt with which men of his sort always receive a new
                        idea that is beyond the range of their narrow, conventional minds. For I did
                        not expect him to understand why I was not only willing, but even eager, to
                        relinquish a woman whom I could hold only by asserting a property right in
                        her. And I do not think he did understand me, though his manner changed to a
                        sort of grudging respect. He was, I believe, about to make some impulsive,
                        generous speech, when we heard the quick strokes of iron-shod hoofs on the
                        path from the kennels and the stablesis there any sound more arresting? Past
                        us at a gallop swept a horse, on his backAnita. She was not in riding-habit;
                        the wind fluttered the sleeves of her blouse, blew her uncovered hair this
                        way and that about her beautiful face. She sped on toward the landing,
                        though I fancied she had seen us.
                    
                    Anita at Dawn HillLangdon, in a furious temper, descending from the house
                        toward the landingAnita presently, riding like mad"to overtake him," thought
                        I. And I read confirmation in his triumphant eyes. In another mood, I
                        suppose my fury would have been beyond my power to restrain it. Just thenthe
                        day grew dark for me, and I wanted to hide away somewhere. Heart-sick, I was
                        ashamed for her, hated myself for having blundered into surprising her.
                    She reappeared at the turn round which she had vanished. I now noted that she
                        was riding without saddle or bridle, with only a halter round the horse's
                        neckthen she had seen us, had stopped and come back as soon as she could.
                        She dropped from the horse, looked swiftly at me, at him, at me again, with
                        intense anxiety.
                    "I saw your yacht in the harbor only a moment ago," she said to me. She was
                        almost panting. "I feared you might meet him. So I came."
                    "As you see, he is quiteintact," said I. "I must ask that you and he leave
                        the place at once." And I went rapidly along the path toward the kennels.
                    
                    An exclamation from Langdon forced me to turn in spite of myself. He was
                        half-kneeling, was holding her in his arms. At that sight, the savage in me
                        shook himself free. I dashed toward them with I knew not what curses
                        bursting from me. Langdon, intent upon her, did not realize until I sent him
                        reeling backward to the earth and snatched her up. Her white face, her
                        closed eyes, her limp form made my fury instantly collapse. In my confusion
                        I thought that she was dead. I laid her gently on the grass and supported
                        her head, so small, so gloriously crowned, the face so still and sweet and
                        white, like the stainless entrance to a stainless shrine. How that horrible
                        fear changed my whole way of looking at her, at him, at her and him, at
                        everything!
                    Her eyelids were quiveringher eyes were openingher bosom was rising and
                        falling slowly as she drew long, uncertain breaths. She shuddered, sat up,
                        started up. "Go! go!" she cried. "Bring him back! Bring him back! Bring him"
                    There she recognized me. "Oh," she said, and gave a great sigh of relief. She
                        leaned against a tree and looked at Langdon. "You are still here? Then tell
                        him,"
                    
                    Langdon gazed sullenly at the ground. "I can't," he answered. "I don't
                        believe it. Besideshe has given you to me. Let us go. Let me take you to the
                        Vivians." He threw out his arms in a wild, passionate gesture; he was
                        utterly unlike himself. His emotion burst through and shattered pose and
                        cynicism and hard crust of selfishness like the exploding powder bursting
                        the shell. "I can't give you up, Anita!" he exclaimed in a tone of utter
                        desperation. "I can't! I can't!"
                    But her gaze was all this time steadily on me, as if she feared I would go,
                        should she look away. "I will tell you myself," she said rapidly, to me.
                        "Weuncle Howard and Iread in the papers how they had all turned against you,
                        and he brought me over here. He has been telegraphing for you. This morning
                        he went to town to search for you. About an hour ago Langdon came. I refused
                        to see him, as I have ever since the time I told you about at Alva's. He
                        persisted, until at last I had the servant request him to leave the house."
                    "But now there's no longer any reason for your staying,
                        Anita," he pleaded. "He has said you are free. Why stay when you would really no  more be here
                        than if you were to go, leaving one of your empty dresses?"
                    She had not for an instant taken her gaze from me; and so strange were her
                        eyes, so compelling, that I seemed unable to move or speak. But now she
                        released me to blaze upon himand never shall I forget any detail of her face
                        or voice as she said to him: "That is false, Mowbray Langdon. I told you the
                        truth when I told you I loved him!"
                    So violent was her emotion that she had to pause for self-control. And I? I
                        was overwhelmed, dazed, stunned. When she went on, she was looking at
                        neither of us. "Yes, I loved him, almost from the firstfrom the day he came
                        to the box at the races. I was ashamed, poor creature that my parents had
                        made me! I was ashamed of it. And I tried to hate him, and thought I did.
                        And when he showed me that he no longer cared, my pride goaded me into the
                        folly of trying to listen to you. But I loved him more than ever. And as you
                        and he stand here, I am ashamed againashamed that I was ever so blind and
                        ignorant and prejudiced as to compare him with"she looked at Langdon"with
                        you. Do you believe me nownow that  I humble
                        myself before him here in your presence?"
                    I should have had no heart at all if I had not felt pity for him. His face
                        was gray, and on it were those signs of age that strong emotion brings to
                        the surface after forty. "You could have convinced me in no other way," he
                        replied, after a silence, and in a voice I should not have recognized.
                    Silence again. Presently he raised his head, and with something of his old
                        cynicism bowed to her.
                    "You have avenged much and many," said he. "I have often had a presentiment
                        that my day of wrath would come."
                    He lifted his hat, bowed to me without looking at me, and, drawing the
                        tatters of his pose still further over his wounds, moved away toward the
                        landing.
                    I, still in a stupor, watched him until he had disappeared. When I turned to
                        her, she dropped her eyes. "Uncle Howard will be back this afternoon," said
                        she. "If I may, I'll stay at the house until he comes to take me."
                    A weary, half-suppressed sigh escaped from her. I knew how she must be
                        reading my silence,  but I was still unable to
                        speak. She went to the horse, browsing near by; she stroked his muzzle.
                        Lingeringly she twined her fingers in his mane, as if about to spring to his
                        back! That reminded me of a thousand and one changes in herlittle changes,
                        each a trifle in itself, yet, taken all together, making a complete
                        transformation.
                    "Let me help you," I managed to say. And I bent, and made a step of my hand.
                    She touched her fingers to my shoulder, set her narrow, graceful foot upon my
                        palm. But she did not rise. I glanced up; she was gazing wistfully down at
                        me.
                    "Women have to learn by experience just as do men," said she forlornly. "Yet
                        men will not tolerate it."
                    I suppose I must suddenly have looked what I was unable to put into wordsfor
                        her eyes grew very wide, and, with a cry that was a sigh and a sob, and a
                        laugh and a caress all in one, she slid into my arms and her face was
                        burning against mine.
                    "Do you remember the night at the theater," she murmured, "when your lips
                        almost touched my neck?I loved you thenBlack MattBlack
                        Matt!"
                    
                    And I found voice; and the horse wandered away.
                    What more?
                    How Langdon eased his pain and soothed his vanity? Whenever an old Babylonian
                        nobleman had a misfortune, he used to order all his slaves to be lashed,
                        that their shrieks and moans might join his in appeasing the god who was
                        punishing him. Langdon went back to Wall Street, and for months he made all
                        within his power suffer; in his fury he smashed fortunes, lowered wages,
                        raised prices, reveled in the blasts of a storm of impotent curses. But you
                        do not care to hear about that.
                    As for myself, what could I tell that you do not know or guess? Now that all
                        men, even the rich, even the parasites of the bandits, groan under their
                        tyranny and their taxes, is it strange that the resentment against me has
                        disappeared, that my warnings are remembered, that I am popular? I might
                        forecast what I purpose to do when the time is ripe. But I am not given to
                        prophecy. I will only say that I think I shall, in due season, go into
                        action againprofiting by my experience in the futility of trying to hasten
                        evolution by revolution. Meanwhile
                    
                    As I write, I can look up from the paper, and out upon the lawn, at a
                        womanwhat a woman!teaching a baby to walk. And, assisting her, there is a
                        boy, himself not yet an expert at walking. I doubt if you'd have to glance
                        twice at that boy to know he is my son. WellI have borrowed a leaf from
                        Mulholland's philosophy. I commend it to you.
                    THE END
                
            
        
    
