
     ----CITATION---- 
        Stratton-Porter, Gene, 1863-1924. Freckles: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2372
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                FRECKLES GENE STRATTON-PORTER
                
            
            
            
                
                    "'I'll do pracisely what you tell me
                        or die trying.'"
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    FRECKLES
                
                BY
                    GENE STRATTON-PORTER AUTHOR OF THE SONG OF THE
                    CARDINAL
                DECORATIONS BY E STETSON CRAWFORD
                
                    NEW YORK
                    GROSSET & DUNLAP PUBLISHERS
                
            
            
            
                Copyright, 1904, by Doubledav, Page & Company
                    Published, October, 1904
            
            
            
                TO ALL GOOD IRISHMEN IN GENERAL AND ONE CHARLES DARWIN
                    PORTER IN PARTICULAR
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    I. Wherein Great Risks Are Taken and the Limberlost Guard Is Hired 3
                        
                    II. Wherein Freckles Proves His Mettle and Finds Friends 20
                        
                    III. Wherein a Feather Falls and a Soul Is Born 40
                        
                    IV. Wherein Freckles Bravely Faces Trouble and Opens the Way for New
                        Experiences 71
                        
                    V. Wherein an Angel Materialises and a Man Worships 117
                        
                    VI. Wherein a Fight Occurs and Women Shoot Straight 140
                        
                    VII. Wherein Freckles Wins Honour and Finds a Footprint on the Trail 160
                        
                    VIII. Wherein Freckles Meets a Man of Affairs and Loses Nothing by the
                        Encounter 171
                        
                    IX Wherein the Limberlost Falls upon Mrs. Duncan and Freckles Comes to the
                        Rescue 194
                        
                    
                    X. Wherein Freckles Strives Mightily and the Angel Rewards Him 205
                        
                    XI. Wherein the Butterflies Go on a Spree and Freckles Informs the Bird
                        Woman 219
                        
                    XII. Wherein Black Jack Captures Freckles and the Angel Captures Jack 237
                        
                    XIII. Wherein the Angel Releases Freckles and the Curse of Black Jack
                        Falls upon Her 264
                        
                    XIV. Wherein Freckles Nurses a Heart-Ache and Black Jack Drops Out 285
                        
                    XV. Wherein Freckles and the Angel Try Taking a Picture, and Little
                        Chicken Furnishes the Subject 309
                        
                    XVI. Wherein the Angel Locates a Rare Tree and Dines with the Gang 323
                        
                    XVII. Wherein Freckles Offers His Life for His Love and Gets a Broken Body
                            340
                        
                    XVIII. Wherein Freckles Refuses Love without Knowledge of Honourable Birth
                        and the Angel Goes in Quest of It 366
                        
                    XIX. Wherein Freckles Finds His Birthright and the Angel Loses Her Heart
                            395
                        
                    XX. Wherein Freckles Returns to the Limberlost and Lord O'More
                        Sails for Ireland Without Him 415
                        
                
            
            
            
                LIST OF FULL-PAGE PICTURES
                
                    "'I'll do pracisely what you tell me or die
                        trying'" 
                            Frontispiece
                        
                        
                    "'Ye winna see the like o' yon again while God
                        lets ye live'" 34
                        
                    "'And what is it I've to be proud of,
                        ma'am?' politely inquired Freckles" 206
                        
                    "'You won't come in?' she
                        pleaded" 228
                        
                    "'There hasn't been an hour ... that the face
                        of her hasn't been before me in all the tinderness, beauty, and
                        mischief of it'" 292
                        
                    "He reached his arm about her and drew her up closely"
                            344
                        
                
            
            
            
                THE CHARACTERS
                
                    FRECKLES, a plucky waif who guards the Limberlost
                        timber leases and dreams of Angels.
                    THE SWAMP ANGEL,
                        in whom Freckles' sweetest dream materialises.
                    MCLEAN, a member of a Grand Rapids
                        lumber company, who befriends Freckles.
                    MRS. DUNCAN, who gives mother-love
                        and a home to Freckles.
                    DUNCAN, head teamster of McLean's timber gang.
                    THE BIRD WOMAN,
                        who is collecting camera studies of birds for a book.
                    LORD AND LADY O'MORE, who come from Ireland in quest of a lost relative.
                    THE MAN OF AFFAIRS, brusque of manner, but big of heart.
                    WESSNER, a Dutch timber-thief who wants rascality made
                        easy.
                    BLACK JACK, a villain to whom
                        thought of repentance comes too late.
                    SEARS, camp cook.
                
            
        
        
            
            
                FRECKLES
                
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    WHEREIN GREAT RISKS ARE TAKEN AND THE LIMBERLOST GUARD IS HIRED
                    
                    
                        FRECKLES came down the corduroy that crosses the lower end
                        of the Limberlost. At a glance he might have been mistaken for a tramp, but
                        he was truly seeking work. He was intensely eager to belong somewhere and to
                        be attached to almost any sort of enterprise that would furnish him food and
                        clothing.
                    Long before he came in sight of the camp of the Grand Rapids Lumber Company,
                        he could hear the cheery voices of the men and the neighing of the horses,
                        and could scent the tempting odours of cooking food. A feeling of homeless
                        friendlessness swept over him in a sickening wave. Without stopping to
                        think, he turned into the newly made road and followed it to the camp, where
                        the gang was making ready for supper and bed
                    
                    The scene was intensely attractive. The thickness of the swamp made a dark,
                        massive background below, and above towered gigantic trees. The men were
                        jovially calling back and forth as they unharnessed tired horses, that fell
                        into attitudes of rest and crunched, in deep content, the grain given them.
                        As he lovingly wiped the flanks of his big bays with handfuls of pawpaw
                        leaves, Duncan, the brawny Scotch head-teamster, softly whistled,
                        "O wha will be my dearie, O!" and a cricket under the
                        leaves at his feet accompanied him. The green-wood fire hissed and crackled
                        merrily. Wreathing tongues of flame wrapped about the big black kettles,
                        and, when the cook lifted the lids to plunge in his testing-fork, gusts of
                        savoury odours escaped.
                    Freckles approached him.
                    "I want to speak to the Boss," he said.
                    The cook glanced him over and answered carelessly, "He
                        can't use you."
                    The colour flooded Freckles' face, but he said simply, "If
                        you will be having the goodness to point him out, we will give him a chance
                        to do his own talking."
                    With a shrug of astonishment, the cook led the 
                        way to a rough board table where a broad, square-shouldered man was bending
                        over some account-books.
                    "Mr. McLean, here's another man wanting to be taken on the
                        gang, I suppose," he said.
                    "All right," came the cheery answer. "I never
                        needed a good man more than I do just now."
                    The manager turned a page and carefully began on a new line.
                    "No use of your bothering with this fellow," volunteered
                        the cook. "He hasn't but one hand."
                    The flush on Freckles' face burned deeper. His lips thinned to a
                        mere line. He lifted his shoulders, took a step forward, and thrust out his
                        right arm, from which the sleeve dangled empty at the wrist.
                    "That will do, Sears," came the voice of the Boss sharply.
                        "I will interview my man when I have finished this
                        report." He turned to his work, while the cook hurried back to the
                        fires.
                    Freckles stood one instant as he had braced himself to meet the eyes of the
                        manager; then his arm dropped and a wave of whiteness swept over him. The
                        Boss had not even turned his head to see the deformity pointed out to him.
                        He had  used the possessive. When he said
                        "my man," the hungry heart of Freckles went reaching out
                        after him.
                    The boy drew a quivering breath. Then he whipped off his old hat and beat the
                        dust from it carefully. With his left hand he caught the right sleeve, wiped
                        his sweaty face, and tried to straighten his hair with his fingers. He broke
                        a spray of ironwort beside him and used the purple blossoms to beat the dust
                        from his shoulders and limbs. The Boss, busy over his report, was
                        nevertheless vaguely alive to the toilet going on behind him, and scored one
                        for the man.
                    McLean was a Scotchman. It was his habit to work slowly and methodically. The
                        men of his camps had never known him to be in a hurry or to lose his temper.
                        Discipline was inflexible, but the Boss was always kind. His habits were
                        simple. He shared camp life with his gangs. The only visible signs of his
                        great wealth consisted of a big, shimmering diamond stone of ice and fire
                        that glittered and burned on one of his fingers, and the dainty, beautiful
                        thoroughbred mare he rode between camps and about the country on business.
                    
                    No man of McLean's gangs could honestly say that he had ever been
                        overdriven or underpaid. The Boss had never exacted any deference from his
                        men, yet so intense was his personality that no man of them had ever
                        attempted a familiarity. They all knew him to be a thorough gentleman, and
                        that up in the great timber city several millions stood to his credit.
                    He was the only son of that McLean who had sent out the finest ships ever
                        built in Scotland. That his son should carry on this business after his
                        death had been the father's ambition. He sent the boy through
                        Edinburgh University and Oxford, and allowed him several years'
                        travel before he should attempt his first commission for the firm.
                    Then he was ordered through southern Canada and Michigan to purchase a
                        consignment of tall, straight timber for masts, and down into Indiana for
                        oak beams. The young man entered these mighty forests, parts of which still
                        lay untouched since the dawn of the morning of time. The clear, cool,
                        pungent atmosphere was intoxicating. The intense silence, like that of a
                        great empty cathedral, fascinated him. He gradually learned  that, to the shy wood-creatures that darted
                        across his path or peeped inquiringly from leafy ambush, he was brother. He
                        found himself approaching, with a feeling of reverence, those majestic trees
                        that had stood through ages of sun, wind, and snow. Soon it became a
                        difficult thing to fell them. When he had filled his order and returned
                        home, he was amazed to find that in the swamps and forests he had lost his
                        heart, and it was calling, forever calling him.
                    When he inherited his father's property, he promptly disposed of it
                        and, with his mother, founded a home in a splendid residence in the
                        outskirts of Grand Rapids. With three partners, he organised a lumber
                        company. His work was to purchase, fell, and ship the timber to the mills.
                        Marshall managed the milling process and passed the lumber on to the
                        factory. From the lumber, Barthol made beautiful and useful furniture, which
                        Uptegrove scattered all over the world from a big wholesale house. Of the
                        thousands who saw their faces reflected in the polished surfaces of that
                        furniture and found comfort in its use, few there were to whom it suggested
                        mighty forests and trackless swamps, and the man, big of soul and  body, who cut his way through them, and with
                        the eye of experience doomed the proud trees that were now entering the
                        homes of civilisation for service.
                    When McLean turned from his finished report, he faced a young man, still
                        under twenty, tall, spare, heavily framed, thickly freckled, and red-haired,
                        with a homely Irish face, but in the steady gray eyes, straightly meeting
                        his searching ones of blue, there was unswerving candour and a look of
                        longing not to be ignored. He was dressed in the roughest of farm clothing,
                        and looked tired to the point of falling.
                    "You are looking for work?" questioned McLean.
                    "Yis," answered Freckles.
                    "I am very sorry," said the Boss, with genuine sympathy in
                        his every tone, "but there is only one man I want at presenta good,
                        big fellow with a stout heart and a strong body. I hoped that you would do,
                        but I am afraid you are too young and hardly strong enough."
                    Freckles stood, hat in hand, his eyes fixed on McLean.
                    
                    "And what was it you thought I might be doing?" he asked.
                    The Boss could scarcely repress a start. Some where back of accident and
                        poverty had been an ancestor who used cultivated English, even with an
                        accent. The boy spoke in a mellow Irish voice, sweet and pure. It was
                        scarcely definite enough to be called brogue, yet there was a trick in the
                        turning of the sentence, the wrong sound of a letter here and there, that
                        was almost irresistible to McLean, and presaged a misuse of infinitives and
                        possessives with which he was very familiar and which touched him nearly. He
                        was of foreign birth, and, despite years of alienation, in times of strong
                        feeling he fell into inherited sins of accent and construction.
                    "It's no child's job," answered McLean.
                        "I am the field manager of a big lumber company. We have just
                        leased two thousand acres of the Limberlost. Many of these trees are of
                        great value. We can't leave our camp, six miles south, for almost a
                        year yet; so we have blazed a trail and strung barbed wires securely about
                        the extent of this lease. Before we return to our work, I must put this
                        Limberlost lease in the hands of  a reliable,
                        brave, strong man who will guard it every hour of the day, and sleep with
                        one eye open at night. I should require the entire length of the trail to be
                        walked at least twice every day, to make sure that our lines were up and no
                        one had been trespassing."
                    Freckles was leaning forward, taking in every word with such intense
                        eagerness that he was beguiling the Boss into explanations he had never
                        intended making.
                    "But why wouldn't that be the finest job in the world for
                        me?" he pleaded. "I am never sick. I could walk the trail
                        twice, three times every day, and I'd be watching sharp all the
                        while."
                    "It's because you are little more than a boy, and this will
                        be a trying job for a work-hardened man," answered McLean.
                        "You see, in the first place, you would be afraid. In stretching
                        our lines, we killed six rattlesnakes almost as long as your body and as
                        thick as your arm. It's the price of your life to start through the
                        marsh-grass surrounding the swamp unless you are covered with heavy leather
                        above your knees.
                    "You should be able to swim in case high water undermines the
                        temporary bridge we have  built where Sleepy
                        Snake Creek enters the swamp. The fall and winter changes of weather are
                        abrupt and severe, and I should want strict watch kept every day. You would
                        always be alone, and I don't guarantee what is in the Limberlost.
                        It is lying here as it has lain since the beginning of time, and it is alive
                        with sounds and voices. I don't pretend to say what all of them
                        come from, but, from a few slinking forms I've seen, and
                        hair-raising yells I've heard, I'd rather not confront
                        their owners myself; and I am neither weak nor fearful.
                    "Worst of all, any man who will enter the swamp to mark and steal
                        timber is a desperate fellow. One of my employees at the south camp, John
                        Carter, compelled me to discharge him for a number of serious reasons. He
                        came up here, entered the swamp alone, and succeeded in locating and marking
                        a number of valuable trees that he was endeavouring to sell to our rival
                        company when we secured the lease. He has sworn to have these trees if he
                        has to die or to kill others to get them; and he is a man that the strongest
                        would not be anxious to meet."
                    "But if he came to steal trees, wouldn't he  bring teams and men enough, that all any man
                        could do would be to watch and be after you?" queried the boy.
                    "Yes," replied McLean.
                    "Then why couldn't I be watching just as closely, and
                        coming as fast, as an older, stronger man?" asked Freckles.
                    "Why, by George, you could!" exclaimed McLean. "I
                        don't know as the size of a man would be half so important as his
                        grit and faithfulness, come to think of it. Sit down on that log there and
                        we will talk it over. What is your name?"
                    Freckles shook his head at the proffer of a seat, and, folding his arms,
                        stood straight as the trees about him. He grew a shade whiter, but his eyes
                        never faltered.
                    "Freckles," he said.
                    "Good enough for every day," laughed McLean, "but
                        I can scarcely put Freckles on the company's books. Tell me your
                        name."
                    "I haven't any name," replied the boy.
                    "I don't understand," said McLean.
                    "I was thinking from the voice and the face of you that you
                        wouldn't," said Freckles slowly.  "I've spent more time on it than I ever did
                        on anything else in all me life, and I don't understand. Does it
                        seem to you that any one would take a new-born baby and row over it until it
                        was bruised black, cut off its hand, and leave it out in a bitter night on
                        the steps of a charity home, to the care of strangers? That's what
                        somebody did to me."
                    McLean stared aghast. He found no reply ready, and presently in a low voice
                        he suggested, "And after?"
                    "The Home people took me in, and I was there the full legal age and
                        several years over. For the most part we were a lot of little Irishmen
                        together. They could always find homes for the rest of the children, but
                        nobody would ever be wanting me on account of me arm."
                    "Were they kind to you?" McLean could have bitten his
                        tongue for the question the minute it was asked.
                    "I don't know," answered Freckles. The reply
                        sounded so hopeless even to his own ears that he hastened to qualify it by
                        adding: "You see, it's like this, sir. Kindnesses that
                        people are paid to lay off in job lots, and that  belong equally to several hundred others, ain't going to be
                        soaking into any one fellow much."
                    "Go on," said McLean, nodding comprehendingly.
                    "There's nothing worth the taking of your time to
                        tell," replied Freckles. "The Home was in Chicago, and I
                        was there all me life up to three months ago. When I was too old for the
                        training they gave to the little children, they sent me out to the nearest
                        ward school as long as the law would let them; but I was never like any of
                        the other children, and they all knew it. I'd to go and come like a
                        prisoner, and be working about the Home early and late for me board and
                        clothes. I always wanted to learn mighty bad, but I was glad when that was
                        over.
                    "Every few days, all me life, I'd to be called up, looked
                        over, and refused a home and love, on account of me hand and ugly face; but
                        it was all the home I'd ever known, and I didn't seem to
                        belong any place else.
                    "Then a new superintendent was put in. He wasn't for being
                        like any of the others, and he swore he'd weed me out the first
                        thing he did.  He made a plan to send me down
                        in the State to a man he said he knew that needed a boy. He wasn't
                        for remembering to tell that man that I was a hand short, and he knocked me
                        down the minute he found I was the boy that had been sent him. Between noon
                        and that evening, he and his son about my age had me in pretty much the same
                        shape in which I was found in the beginning, so I lay awake that night and
                        ran away. I'd like to have squared me account with that boy before
                        I left, but I didn't dare for fear of waking the old man, and I
                        knew I couldn't handle the two of them; but I'm hoping to
                        meet him alone some day before I die."
                    McLean tugged at his moustache to hide the smile on his lips, and liked the
                        boy all the better for this confession.
                    "I didn't even have to steal clothes to get rid of starting
                        in me Home ones," Freckles went on, "for they had already
                        taken all me clean, neat things for the boy and put me into his rags, and
                        that went almost as sore as the beatings, for where I was we were always
                        kept tidy and sweet-smelling, anyway. I hustled clear into this State before
                        I learned that man couldn't have kept me if he'd  wanted to. When I thought I was good and away
                        from him, I commenced hunting work, but it is with everybody else just as it
                        is with you, sir. Big, strong, whole men are the only ones for being
                        wanted."
                    "I have been studying over this matter," answered McLean.
                        "I am not so sure but that a man no older than you and like you in
                        every way could do this work very well, if he were not a coward, and had it
                        in him to be trustworthy and industrious."
                    Freckles came forward a step.
                    "If you will give me a job where I can earn me food, clothes, and a
                        place to sleep," he said, "if I can have a Boss to work
                        for like other men, and a place I feel I've a right to, I will do
                        pracisely what you tell me or die trying."
                    He said it so quietly and convincingly that McLean believed, although in his
                        heart he knew that to employ a stranger would be wretched business for a man
                        with the interests he had involved.
                    "Very well," the Boss found himself answering, "I
                        will enter you on my pay-rolls. We'll have supper, and then I will
                        provide you with clean clothing, wading-boots, the wire-mending apparatus,
                             and a revolver. The first thing in the
                        morning, I will take you over the trail myself and explain fully what I want
                        done. All I ask of you is to come to me at once at the south camp and tell
                        me like a man if you find this job too hard for you. It will not surprise
                        me. It is work that few men would perform faithfully. What name shall I put
                        down?"
                    Freckles' eyes never left McLean's face, and the Boss saw
                        the swift spasm of pain that swept his lonely, sensitive face.
                    "I haven't any name," he said stubbornly,
                        "no more than one somebody clapped on to me when they put me on the
                        Home books, with not the thought or care they'd named a house cat.
                        I've seen how they enter those poor, little abandoned devils often
                        enough to know. What they called me is no more my name than it is yours. I
                        don't know what mine is, and I never will; but I am going to be
                        your man and do your work, and I'll be glad to answer to any name
                        you choose to call me. Won't you please be giving me a name, Mr.
                        McLean?"
                    The Boss wheeled abruptly and began stacking his books. What he was thinking
                        was probably  what any other gentleman would
                        have thought in the circumstances. With his eyes still downcast, and in a
                        voice harsh with huskiness, he spoke.
                    "I will tell you what we will do, my lad," he said.
                        "My father was my ideal man, and I loved him better than any other
                        I have ever known. He went out five years ago, but that he wuld have been
                        proud to leave to you his name I firmly believe. If I give to you the name
                        of my nearest kin and the man I loved best will that do?"
                    Freckles' rigid attitude relaxed suddenly. His head dropped, and big
                        tears splashed down on the soiled calico shirt. McLean was not surprised at
                        the silence, for he found that talking came none too easily just then.
                    "All right," he said. "I will write it on the
                        rollJames Ross McLean."
                    "Thank you mightily," said Freckles. "That makes
                        me feel almost as if I belonged, already."
                    "You do," said McLean. "Until some one armed with
                        every right comes to claim you, you are mine. Now, come and take a bath,
                        have some supper, and go to bed."
                    As Freckles followed into the lights and sounds of the camp, his heart and
                        soul were singing for joy.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    WHEREIN FRECKLES
                            PROVES HIS METTLE
                            AND FINDS FRIENDS
                    
                    NEXT morning found Freckles in clean, whole clothing, fed,
                        and rested. Then McLean outfitted him and gave him careful instruction in
                        the use of his weapon. The Boss showed him around the timber-line, and
                        engaged him a place to board with the family of his head-teamster, Duncan,
                        whom he had brought from Scotland with him, and who lived in a small
                        clearing he was working out between the swamp and the corduroy. When the
                        gang pulled out for the south camp, Freckles was left to guard a fortune in
                        the Limberlost. That he was under guard himself those first weeks he never
                        knew.
                    Every hour was torture to the boy. The restricted life of a great city
                        orphanage was the other extreme of the world from the Limberlost. He was
                        afraid for his life every minute. The heat  was
                        intense. The heavy wading-boots rubbed his feet until they bled. He was
                        already sore and stiff from his long tramp and outdoor exposure. The seven
                        miles of trail was agony at every step. He practised at night, under the
                        direction of Duncan, until he grew fairly sure in the use of his revolver.
                        He cut a stout hickory cudgel, with a knot on the end as big as his fist,
                        and it never left his hand. What he thought in those first days he himself
                        could not clearly recall afterward.
                    His heart stood still every time he saw the beautiful marsh-grass begin a
                        sinuous waving against the play of the wind, as McLean had
                        told him it would. He bolted a half-mile with his first boom of the bittern,
                        and his hat lifted with every yelp of the sheitpoke. Once he saw a lean,
                        shadowy form following him, and blazed away with his revolver. Then he was
                        frightened worse than ever for fear it might have been Duncan's
                        collie.
                    The first afternoon that he found his wires down, and he was compelled to
                        plunge knee deep into the black swamp-muck to restring them, he became so
                        ill from fear and nervousness that he could scarcely control his shaking
                        hand to do the  work. With every step, he felt
                        that he would miss secure footing and be swallowed up in that clinging sea
                        of blackness. In dumb agony he plunged along, clinging to the posts and
                        trees until he had finished restringing and testing the wire. He had
                        consumed much time. Night closed in. The Limberlost stirred gently, then
                        shook herself, growled, and awoke about him.
                    There seemed to be a great owl hooting from every hollow tree and a little
                        one screeching from every knot-hole. The bellowing of monster bullfrogs was
                        not sufficiently deafening to shut out the wailing of whip-poor-wills that
                        seemed to come from every bush. Night-hawks swept past him with their
                        shivering cry, and bats struck his face. A prowling wildcat missed its catch
                        and screamed with rage. A lost fox bayed incessantly for its mate.
                    The hair on the back of Freckles' neck rose like bristles, and his
                        knees wavered under him. He could not see if the dreaded snakes were on the
                        trail, nor, in the pandemonium, hear the rattle for which McLean had
                        cautioned him to listen. He stood rooted to the ground in an agony of fear.
                        His breath whistled between his teeth. The 
                        perspiration ran down his face and body in little streams.
                    Something big, black, and heavy came crashing through the swamp near him, and
                        with a yell of utter panic Freckles broke and ran how far he did not know;
                        but at last he gained some sort of mastery over himself and retraced his
                        steps. His jaws set like steel and the sweat dried up on his body. When he
                        reached the place from which he had started to run, he turned and with
                        measured steps made his way back down the line. After a while he realised
                        that he was only walking, so for the second time he faced that sea of
                        horrors. When he again came toward the corduroy, the cudgel fell to test the
                        wire at every step.
                    Sounds that curdled his blood seemed to close in about him and shapes of
                        terror to draw nearer and nearer. Fear had so gained the mastery that he did
                        not dare look behind him; and, just when he felt that he should fall dead
                        before he ever reached the clearing, came Duncan's rolling call,
                        "Freckles! Freckles!" A great shuddering sob burst in the
                        boy's dry throat. But he only told Duncan that finding the wire
                        down had made him late.
                    
                    The next morning he started out on time. Day after day, with his heart
                        pounding like a trip-hammer, he ducked, dodged, ran when he could, and
                        fought like a wildcat when he was brought to bay. If he ever had an idea of
                        giving up, no one knew it; for he clung to his job without the shadow of
                        wavering. All these things, in so far as he guessed them, Duncan, who had
                        been set to watch the first weeks of Freckles' work, carried to the
                        Boss at the south camp; but the innermost, exquisite torture of the thing
                        the big Scotchman never guessed, and McLean, with his finer perceptions,
                        came only a little nearer.
                    After a few weeks, when Freckles found that he was still living, that he had
                        a home, and the very first money he had ever possessed was safe in his
                        pockets, he began to grow proud. He still sidestepped, dodged, and hurried
                        to avoid being late again, but he was gradually developing the fearlessness
                        that men ever acquire of dangers to which they are hourly accustomed.
                    His heart seemed to be in his mouth when his first rattler disputed the trail
                        with him, but he mustered courage and let drive at it with his club. After
                        its head had been crushed, he mastered an 
                        Irishman's inborn repugnance to snakes sufficiently to cut off its
                        rattles to show Duncan. With the mastery of his first snake, his greatest
                        fear of them was gone.
                    Then he began to realise that, with the abundance of food in the swamp,
                        flesh-hunters would not come out on the trail and attack him, and he had his
                        revolver for defence if they did. He soon learned to laugh at the big,
                        floppy birds that made horrible noises. One day, watching from behind a
                        tree, he saw a crane solemnly performing a few measures of a belated nuptial
                        song-and-dance with his mate. Realising that it was intended in tenderness,
                        no matter how it appeared, the lonely, starved heart of the boy went out to
                        them in sympathy.
                    Before the first month was over he was fairly easy about his job, and by the
                        next he rather liked it. Nature can be trusted to work her own miracle in
                        the heart of any man whose daily task keeps him alone among her sights,
                        sounds, and silences.
                    When, day after day, the only thing that relieved his utter loneliness was
                        the companionship of the birds and beasts of the swamp, it was the  most natural thing in the world that Freckles
                        should turn to them for friendship. He began by instinctively protecting the
                        weak and helpless. He was astonished at the quickness with which they became
                        accustomed to him and the disregard they showed for his movements, once they
                        learned that he was not a hunter and that the club he carried was used more
                        frequently for their benefit than his own. He could scarcely believe what he
                        saw.
                    From the effort to protect the birds and animals, it was only a short step to
                        the possessive feeling, and with it sprang up the impulse to caress and
                        provide. Through fall, when brooding was over and the upland birds sought
                        the swamp in swarms to feast on its seeds and berries, Freckles was content
                        with watching them and speculating about them. Outside of half a dozen of
                        the very commonest, they were strangers to him. The likeness of their way to
                        that of human folk was an hourly surprise.
                    When black frosts began stripping the Limberlost, cutting down the ferns,
                        shearing the vines from the trees, mowing the succulent green things of the
                        swale, and setting the leaves swirling down, 
                        he watched the departing troops of his friends with dismay. He began to
                        realise that he was going to be left alone. He made special efforts toward
                        friendliness with the hope that he could induce some of them to stay. It was
                        then that he conceived the idea of carrying food to the birds; for he saw
                        that they were leaving for lack of it. But he could not stop them. Day after
                        day, flocks gathered and departed. By the time the first snow whitened his
                        trail about the Limberlost, there were left only the little black-and-white
                        juncos, the sapsuckers, yellowhammers, a few patriarchs among the flaming
                        cardinals, the blue jays, the crows, and the quail.
                    Then Freckles began his wizard work. He cleared a space of swale, and twice a
                        day he spread a birds' banquet. By the middle of December the
                        strong winds of winter had beaten most of the seed from the grass and
                        bushes. The snow fell, covering the swamp, and food was very scarce and hard
                        to find. The birds scarcely waited until Freckles' back was turned
                        to attack his provisions. In a few weeks they flew toward the clearing to
                        meet him. By the bitter weather of January they came half-way to the cabin
                        every  morning, and fluttered about him like
                        doves all the way to the feeding-ground. By February they were so accustomed
                        to him, and so hunger-driven, that they would perch on his head and
                        shoulders, and the saucy jays would try to pry into his pockets.
                    Then Freckles added to wheat and crumbs every scrap of refuse food he could
                        find about the cabin. He carried down to his pets the parings of apples,
                        turnips, potatoes, stray cabbage-leaves, and carrots, and tied to the bushes
                        meat-bones to which scraps of fat and gristle still clung. One morning,
                        coming to his feeding-ground unusually early, he found a gorgeous cardinal
                        and a rabbit sociably nibbling a cabbage-leaf side by side, and that
                        instantly gave to him the idea of cracking nuts, from the store he had
                        gathered for Duncan's children, for the squirrels, in the effort to
                        add them to his family. Soon he had them comingred, gray, and black; and he
                        became filled with a vast impatience that he did not know their names nor
                        habits.
                    So the winter passed. Every week McLean rode over to the Limberlost; never on
                        the same day nor at the same hour. Always he found Freckles  at his work, faithful and brave no matter how
                        severe the weather.
                    The boy's earnings constituted his first money; and when the Boss
                        explained to him that he could leave them safe at a bank and carry away a
                        scrap of paper that represented the amount, he went straight on every
                        pay-day and made his deposit, keeping out barely what was necessary for his
                        board and clothing. What he wanted to do with his money he did not know, but
                        it gave to him a sense of freedom and power to feel that it was there-it was
                        his and he could have it when he chose. In imitation of McLean, he bought a
                        small pocket account-book, in which he carefully set down every dollar he
                        earned and every penny he spent. As his expenses were small and the Boss
                        paid him well, it was astonishing how his little hoard grew.
                    That winter held the first hours of real happiness in Freckles'
                        life. He was free. He was doing a man's work faithfully, through
                        every rigour of rain, snow, and blizzard. He was gathering a wonderful
                        strength of body, paying his way, and saving money. Every man of the gang
                        and of that locality knew that he was under the protection  of McLean, who was a power, and it had the
                        effect of smoothing Freckles' path in many directions.
                    Mrs. Duncan showed him that individual kindness for which his hungry heart
                        was longing. She had a hot drink ready for him when he came in from a
                        freezing day on the trail. She knitted him a heavy mitten for his left hand,
                        and devised a way to sew up and pad the right sleeve which protected the
                        maimed arm in bitter weather. She patched his clothing-frequently torn by
                        the wire, and saved kitchen-scraps for his birds, not because she either
                        knew or cared a rap about them, but because she herself was near enough the
                        swamp to be touched by its utter loneliness. When Duncan laughed at her for
                        this, she retorted: "My God, mannie, if Freckles hadna the birds
                        and the beasts he would be always alone. It was never meant for a human
                        being to be sa solitary. He'd get touched in the head if he hadna
                        them to think for and to talk to."
                    "How much answer do ye think he gets to his talkin',
                        lass?" laughed Duncan.
                    "He gets the answer that keeps the eye bricht, the heart happy, and
                        the feet walking faithful the  rough path
                        he's set them in," answered Mrs. Duncan earnestly.
                    Duncan walked away looking very thoughtful. The next morning he gave an ear
                        of the corn he was shelling for his chickens to Freckles, and told him to
                        carry it to his wild chickens down there in the Limberlost. Freckles laughed
                        delightedly.
                    "Me chickens!" he said. "Why didn't I
                        ever think of that before? Of course they are! They are just little brightly
                        coloured cocks and hens! But 'wild' is no good. What would
                        you say to me 'wild chickens' being a good deal tamer than
                        yours here in your yard?"
                    "Hoot, lad!" cried Duncan.
                    "Make yours light on your head and eat out of your hands and
                        pockets," challenged Freckles.
                    "Go tell your fairy tales to the wee people! They're juist
                        brash on believin' things," said Duncan. "Ye
                        canna invent a story too big to stop them from callin' for a
                        bigger."
                    "I dare you to come see!" retorted Freckles.
                    "Take ye!" said Duncan. "If ye make juist ane bird
                        licht on your heid or eat frae your hand, ye are free to help
                        yoursel' to my corn-crib and wheat-bin the rest of the
                        winter."
                    
                    Freckles sprang in air and howled in holy joy
                    "Oh, Duncan! You're too aisy," he cried.
                        "When will you come?"
                    "I'll come next Sabbath," said Duncan.
                        "And I'll believe the birds of the Limberlost are tame as
                        barnyard-fowl when I see it, and no sooner!"
                    After that Freckles always spoke of the birds as his chickens, and the
                        Duncans followed his example. The very next Sabbath, Duncan, with his wife
                        and children, followed Freckles to the swamp. They saw a sight so wonderful
                        it will keep them talking all the rest of their lives, and make them
                        unfailing friends of all the birds save, perhaps, the hawks and the owls.
                    Freckles' chickens were awaiting him at the edge of the clearing.
                        They cut the frosty air about his head into curves and circles of crimson,
                        blue, and black. They chased each other from Freckles, and swept so closely
                        themselves that they brushed him with their outspread wings.
                    At their feeding-ground Freckles set down his old pail of scraps and swept
                        the snow from a small level space with a broom improvised from twigs. As
                        soon as his back was turned, the birds clustered over the food, snatching
                        scraps to carry to the  nearest bushes. Several
                        of the boldest, a big crow and a couple of jays, settled on the rim and
                        feasted at leisure, while a cardinal, that hesitated to venture, fumed and
                        scolded from a twig overhead.
                    Then Freckles scattered his store. At once the ground resembled the spread
                        mantle of Montezuma, except that this mass of gaily coloured feathers was on
                        the backs of living birds. While they feasted, Duncan gripped his
                        wife's arm and stared in astonishment; for from the bushes and dry
                        grass, with gentle cheeping and queer, throaty chatter, as if to encourage
                        each other, came flocks of quail. Before any one saw it arrive, a big gray
                        rabbit sat in the midst of the feast, contentedly gnawing a cabbage-leaf.
                    "Weel, I be drawed on!" came Mrs. Duncan's tense
                        whisper.
                    "Shu-shu," cautioned Duncan.
                    Lastly Freckles took off his cap. He began filling it with handfuls of wheat
                        from his pockets. In a swarm the grain-eaters rose about him like a flock of
                        tame pigeons. They perched on his arms and the cap, and, in the stress of
                        hunger forgetting all caution, a brilliant cock cardinal and an  equally gaudy jay fought for a perching-place
                        on his head.
                    "Weel, I'm beat," muttered Duncan, forgetting the
                        silence imposed on his wife. "I'll hae to give in.
                        'Seein' is believin'.' A man wad hae to
                        see that to believe it. We mauna let the Boss miss that sight, for
                        it's a chance will no likely come twice in a life. Everything is
                        snowed under and thae craturs near starved, but trustin' Freckles
                        that complete they are tamer than our chickens. Look hard, bairns!"
                        he whispered. "Ye winna see the like o' yon again, while
                        God lets ye live. Notice their colour against the ice and snow, and the
                        pretty skippin' ways of them! And spunky! Weel, I'm beat
                        fair!"
                    Freckles emptied his cap, turned his pockets, and scattered his last grain.
                        Then he waved his watching friends good-bye and struck off down the
                        timber-line.
                    A week later, Duncan and Freckles rose from breakfast to face the bitterest
                        morning of the winter. When Freckles, warmly capped and gloved, stepped to
                        the corner of the kitchen for his scrap-pail, he found a big pan of steaming
                        boiled wheat on the top of it. He wheeled to Mrs. Duncan with a shining
                        face.
                    
                    
                        "Ye winna see the like o' yon again,
                            while God lets ye live"
                    
                    
                    "Were you fixing this warm food for me chickens or yours?"
                        he asked.
                    "It's for yours, Freckles," she said. "I
                        was afeared this cold weather they wadna lay good without a warm bite now
                        and then."
                    Duncan laughed as he stepped to the other room for his pipe; but Freckles
                        faced Mrs. Duncan with a trace of every pang of starved mother-hunger he had
                        ever suffered written large on his homely splotched, narrow features.
                    "Oh, how I wish you were my mother!" he cried.
                    Mrs. Duncan attempted an echo of her husband's laugh.
                    "Lord love the lad!" she exclaimed. "Why,
                        Freckles, are ye no bricht enough to learn without being taught by a woman
                        that I am your mither? If a great man like yoursel' dinna ken that,
                        learn it now and ne'er forget it. Ance a woman is the wife of any
                        man, she becomes wife to all men for having had the wifely experience she
                        kens! Ance a man-child has beaten his way to life under the heart of a
                        woman, she is mither to all men, for the hearts of mithers are everywhere
                        the same. Bless ye, laddie, I am your mither!"
                    She tucked the coarse scarf she had knit for him  closer over his chest and pulled his cap lower about his ears, but
                        Freckles, whipping it off and holding it under his arm, caught her rough,
                        reddened hand and pressed it to his lips in a long kiss. Then he hurried
                        away to hide the happy, embarrassing tears that were coming straight from
                        his swelling heart.
                    Mrs. Duncan, sobbing unrestrainedly, swept into the next room and threw
                        herself into Duncan's arms.
                    "Oh, the puir lad!" she wailed. "Oh, the puir
                        mither-hungry lad! He breaks my heart!"
                    Duncan's arms closed convulsively about his wife. With a big, brown
                        hand he lovingly stroked her rough, sorrel hair.
                    "Sarah, you're a guid woman!" he said.
                        "You're a michty guid woman! Ye hae a way o'
                        speakin' out at times that's like the inspired prophets of
                        the Lord. If that had been put to me, now, I'd
                        'a' felt all I kent how to and been keen enough to say the
                        richt thing. But dang it, I'd 'a' stuttered and
                        stammered and got naething out that would ha done onybody a mite o'
                        good. But ye, Sarah! Did ye see his face, woman? Ye sent him off
                        lookin' leke a white light of holiness had passed ower and settled
                        on him. Ye sent the lad off too happy for mortal words, Sarah. And ye made
                             me that proud o' ye! I wouldna
                        trade ye an' my share o' the Limberlost with ony king ye
                        could mention."
                    He relaxed his clasp, and setting a heavy hand on each shoulder, he looked
                        straight into her eyes.
                    "Ye're prime, Sarah! Juist prime!" he said.
                    Sarah Duncan stood alone in the middle of her two-roomed log-cabin and lifted
                        a bony, claw-like pair of hands, reddened by frequent immersion in hot
                        water, cracked and chafed by exposure to cold, black-lined by constant
                        battle with swamp-loam, and calloused by burns, and stared at them
                        wonderingly.
                    "Pretty lookin' things ye are!" she whispered.
                        "But ye hae juist been kissed. And by such a man! Fine as God ever
                        made at His verra best. Duncan wouldna trade wi' a king! Na! Nor I
                        wadna trade with a queen wi' a palace, an' velvet gowns,
                        an' diamonds big as hazel-nuts, an' a hundred visitors a
                        day into the bargain. Ye've been that honoured I'm blest
                        if I can bear to souse ye in dish-water. Still, that kiss winna come off!
                        Naething can take it from me, for it's mine till I dee. Lord, if I
                        amna proud! Kisses on these old claws! Weel, I be drawed on!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    WHEREIN A FEATHER
                            FALLS AND A SOUL IS BORN
                    
                    So Freckles fared through the bitter winter. He was very happy. He had
                        hungered for freedom, love, and appreciation so long! He had been
                        unspeakably lonely at the Home; and the utter loneliness of a great desert
                        or forest is not so hard to bear as the loneliness of being constantly
                        surrounded by crowds of people that do not care in the least whether one is
                        living or dead.
                    All through the winter Freckles' entire energy was given to keeping
                        up his lines and his "chickens" from freezing or starving.
                        When the first breath of spring touched the Limberlost, and the snow receded
                        before it; when the catkins began to bloom; when there came a hint of green
                        to the trees, bushes, and swale; when the rushes lifted their heads, and the
                        pulse of the newly resurrected season beat strong in the heart of  nature, something new stirred in the breast of
                        the boy.
                    Nature always levies her tribute. Now she laid a powerful hand on the soul of
                        Freckles, to which the boy's whole being responded, though he had
                        not the least idea what was troubling him. Duncan accepted his
                        wife's theory that it was a touch of spring fever, but Freckles
                        knew better. He had never been so well. Clean, hot, and steady the blood
                        pulsed in his veins. He was always hungry, and his hardest day's
                        work tired him not at all. For long months, without a single intermission,
                        he had tramped those seven miles of trail twice every day, through every
                        conceivable state of weather. With the heavy club he gave his wires a sure
                        test, and between sections, first in play, afterward to keep his circulation
                        going, he had acquired the skill of an expert drum-major. In his work there
                        was exercise for every muscle of his body each hour of the day, and at night
                        a bath, wholesome food, and sound sleep in a room that never knew fire. He
                        had taken on flesh and colour, and developed a greater strength and
                        endurance than any one could ever have guessed.
                    
                    And now the Limberlost did not contain last year's terrors. He had
                        been with her in her hour of desolation, when, stripped bare and deserted,
                        she had stood shivering, as if herself afraid. He had made excursions into
                        the interior until he was familiar with every path and road that had ever
                        been made. He had sounded the depths of her deepest pools, and had learned
                        why the trees grew so magnificently. He had found that places of swamp and
                        swale were few compared with miles of solid timber-land, concealed by
                        summer's luxuriant undergrowth.
                    The sounds that had at first struck cold fear into his soul he now knew had
                        left on wing and silent foot at the approach of winter. As flock after flock
                        of the birds returned and he recognised the old echoes reawakening, he found
                        to his surprise that he had been lonely for them and was hailing their
                        return with great joy. All his fears were forgotten. Instead, he was
                        possessed of an overpowering desire to know what they were, to learn where
                        they had been, and whether they would make friends with him as the winter
                        birds had done; and if they did, would they be as fickle? For, with the
                        running sap,  creeping worm, and winging bug,
                        most of Freckles' "chickens" had deserted him,
                        entered the swamp, and feasted to such a state of plethora on its store that
                        they cared little for his supply, so that in the strenuous days of mating
                        and nest-building the boy was deserted.
                    He chafed at the birds' ingratitude, but he found speedy consolation
                        in watching and befriending the new-comers. He surely would have been proud
                        and highly pleased if he had known that many of the former inhabitants of
                        the interior swamp now grouped their nests about the timber-line solely for
                        the sake of his protection and company.
                    The yearly resurrection of the Limberlost is a mighty revival. Freckles stood
                        back and watched with awe and envy the gradual reclothing and repopulating
                        of the swamp. Keen-eyed and alert through danger and loneliness, he noted
                        every stage of development, from the first piping frog and unsheathing bud,
                        to full leafage and the return of the last emigrant.
                    The knowledge of his complete loneliness and utter insignificance was hourly
                        thrust upon him. He brooded and fretted until he was in a fever, and  yet he never guessed the cause. He was filled
                        with a vast impatience and a longing that would not much further be denied.
                    It was June by the zodiac, June by the Limberlost, and by every delight of a
                        newly resurrected season it should have been June in the hearts of all men.
                        Yet Freckles scowled darkly as he came down the trail, and the running tap, tap which tested the sagging wire and telegraphed
                        word of his coming to his furred and feathered friends of the swamp, this
                        morning carried the story of his discontent a mile ahead of him.
                    Freckles' special pet, a dainty, yellow-coated, black-sleeved, cock
                        goldfinch, had for several days past remained on the wire, the bravest of
                        all; and Freckles, absorbed with the cunning and beauty of the tiny fellow,
                        never guessed that he was being duped. For the goldfinch was skipping,
                        flirting, and swinging for the express purpose of so holding his attention
                        that he would not look up and see a small cradle of thistledown and wool
                        perilously near his head. In the be. ginning of brooding, the spunky little
                        homesteader had heroically clung to the wire when he was almost paralysed
                        with fright. When day after  day passed and
                        brought only softly whistled repetitions of his call, a handful of crumbs on
                        the top of a locust line-post, and gently worded coaxings, he grew in
                        confidence. Of late he had sung and swung during the passing of Freckles,
                        who, not dreaming of the nest and the solemn-eyed little hen so close above,
                        thought himself unusually gifted in his power to attract the birds. This
                        morning the goldfinch could scarcely believe his ears, and clung to the wire
                        till an unusually vicious rap sent him spinning a foot in air and his "Ptseet" came with a squall of utter
                        panic.
                    The wires were ringing with a story the birds could not translate, and
                        Freckles was quite as ignorant of the trouble as they.
                    A peculiar movement under a small walnut-tree caught his eye. He stopped to
                        investigate. It was an unusually large Luna cocoon, and the moth was just
                        bursting the upper end in its struggles to reach light and air. Freckles
                        stood and stared.
                    "There's something in there trying to get out," he
                        muttered. "Wonder if I could help it? Guess I best not be trying.
                        If I hadn't happened along, there wouldn't have been any
                        one to help it, and  maybe I'd only be
                        hurting it. It'sit'sOh, skaggany! It's just being
                        born!"
                    Freckles gasped with surprise. The moth cleared the opening and with great
                        wobblings and contortions climbed up the tree. He stared speechless with
                        amazement as the moth crept around a limb and clung to the under side. There
                        was a great pursy body, almost as large as his thumb, and of the very
                        snowiest white that Freckles had ever seen. There was a band of delicate
                        lavender across its forehead, and its feet were of the same colour; there
                        were antlers, like tiny, straw-coloured ferns, on its head, and on its
                        shoulders little wet-looking flaps no bigger than his thumb-nail. As
                        Freckles gazed, tense with astonishment, he saw that those queer, little,
                        wet-looking things were expanding, drooping, taking on colour, and small,
                        oval markings were beginning to show.
                    The minutes went by. Freckles' steady gaze never wavered. Without
                        realising it, he was trembling with eagerness and anxiety. As he saw what
                        was taking place, "It's going to have wings," he
                        breathed in hushed wonder. The morning sun fell on the moth and dried its
                        velvet  down, and the soft air made it fluffy.
                        The rapidly growing wings began to appear to be of the most delicate green,
                        with lavender fore-ribs, transparent, eye-shaped markings edged with lines
                        of red, tan, and black, and long, crisp trailers.
                    Freckles was whispering to himself for fear of disturbing the moth. It began
                        a systematic exercise of raising and lowering its exquisite wings to dry
                        them and to establish circulation. Freckles realised that it would soon be
                        able to spread them and sail away. His long-coming soul sent up its first
                        shivering cry.
                    "I don't know what it is! Oh, I wish I knew! How I wish I
                        knew! It must be something grand! It can't be a butterfly!
                        It's away too big. Oh, I wish there was some one to tell me what it
                        is!"
                    He climbed on the locust-post and, balancing himself by the wire, held a
                        finger in the line of the moth's advance up the twig. It
                        unhesitatingly climbed on, and he stepped back to the path, holding it up to
                        the light and examining it closely. Then he held it in the shade and turned
                        it, gloating over its markings and beautiful colouring. When  he held the moth back to the limb, it climbed
                        on, still waving those magnificent wings.
                    "My, but I'd like to be staying with you!" he
                        said. "But if I was to stay here all day you couldn't get
                        any prettier than you are right now, and I wouldn't get smart
                        enough to tell what you are. I suppose there's some one that knows.
                        Of course there is! Mr. McLean said there were people that knew every leaf,
                        bird, and flower in the Limberlost. Oh, Lord! How I wish you'd be
                        telling me just this one thing!"
                    The goldfinch had ventured back to the wire, for there was his mate, only a
                        few inches above the man-creature's head; and, indeed, he simply
                        must not be allowed to look up just then, so the brave little fellow rocked
                        on the wire and piped up, just as he had done every day for a week, "See me? See me?"
                    
                    "See you! Of course I see you," growled Freckles.
                        "I see you day after day, and what good is it doing me? I might see
                        you every morning for a year and then not be able to be telling any one
                        about it. 'Seen a birdlittle, and yellow as any canary, with black
                        silk wings.' That's as far as I'd get. What you
                        doing here,  anyway? Have you a mate?
                        What's your name? 'See you?' I reckon I see you;
                        but I might as well be blind, for any good it's doing me!"
                    Freckles impatiently struck the wire. With a screech of fear, the goldfinch
                        fled precipitately. His mate tore from off the nest with a whirrFreckles
                        looked up and saw it.
                    "O-ho!" he cried. "So that's what you are
                        doing here! You have a wife. And so close to my head I have been mighty near
                        wearing a bird on my bonnet, and never knew it!"
                    Freckles laughed at his own joke, and in better humour climbed up to examine
                        the neat, tiny cradle and its contents. The hen darted at him in a frenzy.
                        "Now, where do you come in?" he demanded, when he saw that
                        she was not like the goldfinch.
                    "You be clearing out of here! This is none of your fry. This is the
                        nest of me little, yellow friend of the wire, and you shan't be
                        touching it. Don't blame you for wanting to see, though. My, but
                        it's a fine nest and beauties of eggs. Will you be keeping away, or
                        will I fire this stick at you?'
                    
                    Freckles dropped back to the trail. The hen darted to the nest and settled on
                        it with a tender, coddling movement. He of the yellow coat flew to the edge
                        to make sure that everything was right. It would have been plain to the
                        veriest novice that they were partners in that cradle.
                    "Well, I'll be switched!" muttered Freckles.
                        "If that ain't both their nest! And he's yellow
                        and she's green, or she's yellow and he's green.
                        Of course, I don't know, and I haven't any way to find
                        out, but it's plain as the nose on your face that they are both
                        ready to be fighting for that nest, so, of course, they belong.
                        Don't that beat you? Say, that's what's been
                        sticking me for all of these two weeks on that grass-nest in the thorn-tree
                        down the line. One day a blue bird is setting, and I think it is hers. The
                        next day a brown bird is on, and I chase it off because the nest is
                        blue's. Next day the brown bird is on again, and I let her be,
                        because I think it must be hers. Next day, be golly, blue's on
                        again, and off I send her because it's brown's; and now, I
                        bet my hat, it's both their nest, and I've only been
                        bothering them and making a big fool of meself. Pretty specimen I am,
                        pretending to be a friend  to the birds, and so
                        blamed ignorant I don't know which ones go in pairs, and blue and
                        brown are a pair, of course, if yellow and green areand there's the
                        red birds! I never thought of them! He's red and she's
                        grayand now I want to be knowing, are they all different? Why, no! Of
                        course, they ain't! There's the jays all blue, and the
                        crows all black."
                    The tide of Freckles' discontent welled until he actually choked
                        with anger and chagrin. He plodded on down the trail, scowling blackly and
                        viciously spanging the wire. At the finches' nest he left the line
                        and peered into the thorn-tree. There was no bird brooding. He pressed
                        closer to take a peep at the snowy, spotless little eggs he had found so
                        beautiful, and at the slight noise up flared four tiny baby heads with
                        wide-open mouths and hunger cries. Freckles stepped back. The brown bird lit
                        on the edge and closed one cavity with a wiggling green worm, and not two
                        minutes later the blue filled another with something white. That settled it.
                        The blue and brown were mates. Once again Freckles repeated his
                        "How I wish I knew!"
                    About the bridge spanning Sleepy Snake Creek 
                        the swale spread wide, the timber largely dropped away, and willows, rushes,
                        marsh-grass, and splendid wild flowers grew abundantly. Here lazy, big,
                        black water-snakes, for which the creek was named, sunned on the bushes,
                        wild ducks and grebe chattered, cranes and herons fished, and muskrats
                        plowed the bank in queer, rolling furrows. It was always a place full of
                        interest, and Freckles loved to linger on the bridge, watching the marsh and
                        water-people. He also transacted affairs of importance with the wild flowers
                        and sweet marsh-grass. He enjoyed splashing through the shallow pools lying
                        on either side of the bridge.
                    Then, too, where the creek entered the swamp was a place of unusual beauty.
                        The water spread out in darksome, mossy, green pools. Water-plants and
                        lilies grew abundantly, throwing up great, rank, rich green leaves. Nowhere
                        else in the Limberlost could be found a frog-chorus to equal that of the
                        mouth of the creek. The drumming and piping went on in never-ending
                        orchestral effect, and the full chorus rang to its accompaniment throughout
                        the season.
                    Freckles struck slowly into the path leading from the bridge to the line. It
                        was the one spot  at which he might relax his
                        vigilance. The greatest timber-thief the swamp had ever known would not have
                        attempted to enter it by the mouth of the creek, on account of the water and
                        because there was no protection from surrounding trees. He was swishing the
                        rank grass with his cudgel, and thinking of the shade the denser swamp
                        afforded, when he suddenly dodged sidewise; the cudgel whistled sharply
                        through the air and Freckles sprang back.
                    Out of the clear sky above him, first level with his face, then skimming,
                        dipping, tilting, whirling until it lit, quill down, in the path in front of
                        him, came a glossy, iridescent, big black feather. As it struck the ground,
                        Freckles snatched it up and with an almost continuous movement faced the
                        sky. There was not a tree of any size in a large open space. There was no
                        wind to carry it. From the clear sky it had fallen, and Freckles, gazing
                        eagerly into the arch of June blue with a few lazy clouds floating far up in
                        the sea of ether, had neither mind nor knowledge to dream of a bird hanging
                        as if frozen there. He turned the big quill questioningly, and again his
                        awed eyes swept the sky.
                    
                    "A feather dropped from Heaven!" he breathed reverently.
                        "Are the holy angels moulting? But no; if they were, it would be
                        white. Maybe all the angels are not for being white. What if the angels of
                        God are white and those of the devil are black. But a black one has no
                        business up there. Maybe some poor black angel is so tired of being punished
                        it's for slipping up to the gates, beating its wings trying to make
                        the Master hear!"
                    Again and again Freckles searched the sky, but there was no answering gleam
                        of golden gates, nor form of sailing bird; then he went slowly on his way,
                        turning the feather over and wondering about it. It was a wing quill,
                        eighteen inches in length, with a big heavy spine, gray at the base, shading
                        to jet black at the tip, and it caught the play of the sun's rays
                        in slanting gleams of green and bronze. Again Freckles'
                        'old man of the sea' sat sullen and heavy on his shoulders
                        and weighted him down until his step lagged and his heart ached.
                    "Where did it come from? What is it? Oh, how I wish I
                        knew!" he kept repeating as he turned and studied the feather, with
                        almost unseeing eyes, so intently was he thinking.
                    
                    Before him spread a great, green pool, filled with rotting logs and leaves,
                        bordered with delicate ferns and grasses among which lifted the creamy
                        spikes of the arrow-head, the blue of water-hyacinth, and the delicate
                        yellow of the jewel-flower. As Freckles leaned, handling the feather and
                        staring first at it and then into the depths of the pool, he once more gave
                        voice to his old query, "I wonder what it is!"
                    Straight across from him, couched in the mosses of a soggy old log, a big
                        green bullfrog, with palpitant throat and batting eyes, lifted his head and
                        bellowed in answer, "Fin' dout! Fin'
                            dout!"
                    "Whawhat's that?" stammered Freckles, almost too
                        much taken aback to speak. "II know you are only a bullfrog, but,
                        be jabbers, that sounded mightily like speech. Wouldn't you please
                        to be saying it over?"
                    The bullfrog cuddled contentedly in the ooze. Then suddenly he lifted his
                        voice and, like an imperative drum-beat, rolled it again: "Fin' dout! Fin' dout! Fin'
                            dout!"
                    
                    Freckles had the answer.
                    Like the lightning's flash, something seemed to snap in his brain.
                        There was a wavering flame  before his eyes.
                        Then his mind cleared. His head lifted in a new poise, his shoulders
                        squared, and his spine straightened. The agony was over. His soul floated
                        free. Freckles came into his birthright.
                    "Before God, I will!" He uttered the oath so impressively
                        that the recording angel never winced as he posted it up in the
                        prayer-column.
                    Freckles set his hat over the top of one of the locust posts used between
                        trees to hold up the wire and fastened the feather securely in the band.
                        Then he started down the line, talking to himself as men that have worked
                        long alone always fall into the habit of doing.
                    "What a fool I have been!" he muttered. "Of course
                        that's what I have to do! There wouldn't likely anybody be
                        doing it for me. Of course I can! What am I a man for? If I was a
                        four-footed thing of the swamp, maybe I couldn't; but a man can do
                        anything if he's the grit to work hard enough and stick at it, Mr.
                        McLean is always saying, and here's the way I am to do it. He said,
                        too, that there were people that knew everything in the swamp. Of course
                        they have written books! The thing for me to be doing is  to quit moping and be buying me some books.
                        Never bought a book in me life, or anything else of much account, for that
                        matter. Oh, ain't I glad I didn't waste me money!
                        I'll surely be having enough to get a few. Let me see."
                    Freckles sat down on a log, took out his pencil and account-book, and on a
                        back page he figured it out. He had walked the timber-line ten months. His
                        pay was thirty dollars a month and his board cost him eight. That left
                        twenty-two dollars a month, and the two dollars were more than his clothing
                        had cost him. At the very least he had two hundred dollars in the bank. He
                        drew a deep breath of satisfaction and smiled up at the sky with heavenly
                        sweetness.
                    "I'll be having a book about all the birds, trees, flowers,
                        butterflies, andYes, by gummy! I'll be having one about the frogsif
                        it takes every cent I have," he promised himself.
                    He put away the account-book, which was his most cherished possession, caught
                        up his stick, and started down the line. The even tap, tap, and the cheery,
                        gladsome whistle carried far ahead of him the message that Freckles was
                        himself again.
                    
                    He fell into a rapid pace, for he had lost time that morning, and as he
                        rounded the last curve he was almost running. There was just a chance that
                        the Boss might be there for his weekly report.
                    Then wavering, flickering, darting here and there over the sweet marsh-grass,
                        came a great black shadow, which swept so closely before him that for the
                        second time that morning Freckles dodged and sprang back. He had seen some
                        owls and hawks of the swamp that he thought could be classed as large birds,
                        but never anything like this, for six feet it spread its great, shining
                        wings. Its big, strong feet could be seen drawn up among its feathers. The
                        sun glinted on its sharp, hooked beak. Its eyes glowed, caught the light,
                        and seemed able to pierce the ground at his feet. It cared no more for
                        Freckles than if he had not been there; for it lit on a low tree, and a
                        second later awkwardly hopped to the trunk of a lightning-riven elm, turned
                        its back to him, and sent an eye searching the blue.
                    Freckles looked just in time to see a second shadow sweep the grass; and
                        another bird, a trifle smaller and not quite so brilliant in the light,
                        sailed slowly down and perched beside the first  They were evidently mates, for with a queer, rolling hop the first-comer
                        shivered his bronze wings, sidled up to the new arrival, and gave her a
                        silly little peck on her wing. Then he coquettishly drew away and ogled her.
                        He lifted his head and waddled from her a few steps, awkwardly ambled back,
                        and gave her such a simple sort of kiss on her beak that Freckles burst into
                        a laugh, but clapped his hand over his mouth to stifle the sound.
                    The lover ducked and side-stepped a few feet. He spread his wings and slowly
                        and softly waved them precisely as if he were fanning his charmer, which was
                        indeed the result he accomplished. Then a wave of uncontrollable tenderness
                        struck him and he hobbled up to his bombardment once more. He faced her
                        squarely this time, and turned his head from side to side with queer little
                        jerks and indiscriminate peckings at her wings and head, and smirkings that
                        really should have been irresistible. She yawned and shuffled away
                        indifferently. Freckles reached up, pulled the quill from his hat, and,
                        looking from it to the birds, nodded in settled conviction.
                    "So you're me black angels, ye spalpeens! No  wonder you didn't get in! But
                        I'll back you to come nearer it than any other birds ever did. You
                        fly higher than I can see. Have you picked the Limberlost for a good thing
                        and come down to try it? Well, you can be me chickens if you want to, but
                        I'm blest if you ain't cool for new ones. Why
                        don't you take this stick for a gun and go skinning a
                        mile?"
                    Freckles broke into an unrestrained laugh, for the bird-lover was keen about
                        his courting, and his mate was evidently diffident. When he approached too
                        boisterously, she relieved him of a goodly tuft of feathers and sent him
                        backward in a series of squirmy little jumps that gave the boy an idea of
                        what had happened up-sky to send the falling feather across his pathway.
                    "Score one for the lady! I'll be umpiring this,"
                        volunteered Freckles.
                    With a ravishing swagger, half-lifted wings, and deep, guttural hissing, the
                        lover came on again. He suddenly lifted his body, but she coolly rocked
                        forward on the limb, glided gracefully beneath him, and slowly sailed off
                        into the Limberlost. He recovered himself and gazed after her in
                        astonishment.
                    
                    Freckles hurried down the trail, shaking with laughter. When he neared the
                        path to the clearing and saw the Boss sitting motionless on the mare that
                        was the pride of his heart, the boy broke into a run.
                    "Oh, Mr. McLean!" he cried. "I hope I
                        haven't kept you waiting very long! And the sun is getting so hot!
                        I have been so slow this morning! I could have gone faster, only there were
                        that many things to keep me, and I didn't know you would be here.
                        I'll hurry, after this. I've never had to be giving
                        excuses before. The line wasn't down, and there wasn't a
                        sign of trouble; it was other things that were making me late."
                    McLean, smiling down on the boy, immediately noticed the difference in him.
                        This flushed, panting, talkative lad was not the same creature that had
                        sought him in despair and bitterness. He watched in wonder as Freckles
                        mopped the perspiration from his forehead and burst into a laugh. Then,
                        forgetting all his customary reserve with the Boss, the pent-up boyishness
                        in Freckles broke loose. With an eloquence of which he never reamed, he told
                        his story. He talked with such  enthusiasm that
                        McLean never took his eyes from his face nor shifted in the saddle until he
                        described the strange bird-lover, and then the Boss suddenly bent over the
                        pommel and laughed with him.
                    Freckles decorated his story with keen appreciation and rare touches of Irish
                        wit and drollery that made it most interesting as well as very funny. It was
                        a first attempt at descriptive narration. With an inborn gift for striking
                        the vital point, a naturalist's dawning enthusiasm for the wonders
                        of the Limberlost, and the welling joy of his newly found happiness, he made
                        McLean see the struggles of the moth and its newly painted wings, the
                        dainty, brilliant bird-mates of different colours, the feather sliding
                        through the clear air, the palpitant throat and batting eyes of the frog;
                        and his version of the big birds' courtship won for the Boss the
                        best laugh he had enjoyed in years.
                    "They're back there in the middle of the swamp
                        now," said Freckles. "Do you suppose there is any chance
                        of them staying with me chickens? If they do, they'll be about the
                        queerest I have; but I tell you, sir, I am getting some plum good  ones There's a new kind over at the
                        mouth of the creek that uses its wings like feet and walks on all fours. It
                        travels like a thrashing-machine. There's another, tall as me
                        waist, with a bill a foot long, a neck near two, not the thickness of me
                        wrist and an elegant colour. He's some blue and gray, touched up
                        with black, white, and brown. The voice of him is such that if he'd
                        be going up and standing by a tree and sawing at it a few times he could be
                        cutting it square off. I don't know but it would be a good idea to
                        try him on the gang, sir."
                    McLean laughed. "Those must be blue herons, Freckles," he
                        said. "And it don't seem possible, but your story of the
                        big black birds sounds like genuine black vultures. They are common enough
                        in the South. I've seen them thick about the lumber-camps of
                        Georgia, but I never heard of any this far North before. They must be
                        strays. You have perfectly described our nearest equivalent to a branch of
                        these birds called in Europe Pharaoh's chickens, but if they are
                        coming to the Limberlost they will have to drop Pharaoh and become
                        Freckles' chickens, like the rest of the  birds; won't they? Or are they too odd and ugly to
                        interest you?"
                    "Oh, not at all, at all!" cried Freckles, bursting into
                        pure brogue in his haste. "I don't know as I'd be
                        calling them exactly pretty, and they do move like a rocking-horse loping,
                        but they are so big and fearless. They have a fine colour for black birds,
                        and their feet and beaks seem so strong. You never saw anything so keen as
                        their eyes! And fly? Why, just think, sir, they must be flying miles
                        straight up, for they were out of sight completely when the feather fell. I
                        don't suppose I've a chicken in the swamp that can go as
                        close to heaven as those big, black fellows, and then"
                    Freckles' voice trailed off and he hesitated.
                    "Then what?" interestedly urged McLean.
                    "He was loving her so," answered Freckles in a hushed
                        voice. "I know it looked awful funny, and I laughed and told on
                        him, but if I'd taken time to think I don't believe
                        I'd have done it. You see, I've seen such a little bit of
                        loving in me life. You can easily be understanding that at the Home it was
                        every day the old story of neglect and desertion. Always people that
                        didn't care  enough for their children
                        to raise them, even if they didn't try to kill them; so you see,
                        sir, I had to like him for trying so hard to make her know how he loved her.
                        Of course, they're only birds, but if they are caring for each
                        other like that, why, it's just the same as people, ain't
                        it?"
                    Freckles lifted his brave, steady eyes to the Boss.
                    "If anybody loved me like that, Mr. McLean, I wouldn't be
                        spending any time caring how they looked or moved. All I'd be
                        thinking of was how they felt toward me. If they will stay, I'll be
                        caring as much for them as any chickens I have. If I did laugh at him, I
                        thought he was just fine!"
                    The face of McLean was a study; but the honest eyes of the boy were so
                        compelling that he found himself answering: "You are right,
                        Freckles. He's a gentleman, isn't he? And the only real
                        chicken you have. Of course he'll stay! The Limberlost will be
                        paradise for his family. And now, Freckles, what has been the trouble all
                        spring? You have done your work as faithfully as any one could ask, but I
                        can't help seeing that there is something wrong. Are you tired of
                        your job?"
                    
                    "I love it," answered Freckles. "It will almost
                        break me heart when the gang comes and begins tearing up the swamp and
                        scaring away me chickens."
                    "Then what is the matter?" insisted McLean.
                    "I think, sir, it's been books," answered
                        Freckles. "You see, I didn't realise it meself until the
                        bullfrog told me this morning. I hadn't ever even heard about a
                        place like this. Anyway, I wasn't understanding how it would be, if
                        I had. Being among these beautiful things every day, I got so anxious like
                        to be knowing and naming them, that it got to eating into me and went and
                        made me near sick, when I was well as I could be. Of course, I learned to
                        read, write, and figure some at school, but there was nothing there, nor in
                        any of the city that I ever got to see, that would make a fellow even be
                        dreaming of such interesting things as there are here. I've seen
                        the parksbut good Lord, they ain't even beginning to be in it with
                        the Limberlost! It's all new and strange to me. I don't
                        know a thing about any of it. The bullfrog told me to 'find out,' plain as day, and books are the only way;
                        ain't they?"
                    
                    "Of course," said McLean, astonished at himself for his
                        heartfelt relief. He had not guessed until that minute what it would have
                        meant to him to have Freckles give up. "You know enough to study
                        out what you want yourself, if you have the books; don't
                        you?"
                    "I am pretty sure I do," said Freckles. "I learned
                        all I'd the chance at in the Home, and me schooling was good as far
                        as it went. Wouldn't let you go past fourteen, you know. I always
                        did me sums perfect, and I loved me history books. I had them almost by
                        heart. I never could get me grammar to suit them. They said it was just born
                        in me to go wrong talking, and if it hadn't been I suppose I should
                        have picked it up from the other children; but Id the best voice of any of
                        them in the Home or at school. I could knock them all out singing. I was
                        always leader in the Home, and once one of the superintendents gave me
                        car-fare and let me go into the city and sing in a boys' choir. The
                        master said I'd the swatest voice of them all until it got rough
                        like, and then he made me quit for awhile, but he said it would be coming
                        back by now, and I'm railly thinking it is, sir, for I've
                        tried about the  line a bit of late and it
                        seems to go smooth again and lots stronger. That and me chickens has been
                        all the company I've been having, and it will be all I'll
                        want if I can have some books and learn the real names of things, where they
                        come from, and why they do such interesting things. It's been
                        fretting me more than I knew to be shut up here among all these wonders and
                        not knowing a thing. I wanted to ask you what some books would cost me, and
                        if you'd be having the goodness to get me the right ones. I think I
                        have enough money."
                    Freckles handed up his account-book, and the Boss studied it gravely.
                    "You needn't touch your bank account, Freckles,"
                        he said. "Ten dollars from this month's pay will get you
                        everything you need to start on. I will write a friend in Grand Rapids
                        to-day to select you the very best and send them at once."
                    Freckles' eyes were shining.
                    "Never owned a book in me life!" he said. "Even me
                        school-books were never mine. Lord! How I used to wish I could have just one
                        of them for me very own! Won't it be fun to see me saw-bird  and me little yellow fellow looking at me from
                        the pages of a book, and their real names and all about them printed
                        alongside? How long will it be taking, sir?"
                    "Ten days ought to do it nicely," said McLean. Then, seeing
                        Freckles' lengthening face, he added: "I'll have
                        Duncan get you a ten-bushel store-box the next time he goes to town. He can
                        haul it down to the west entrance and set it up wherever you want it. You
                        can put in your spare time filling it with the specimens you pick up until
                        the books come, and then you can study out what you have. I suspect you
                        could find a lot of stuff that I could send to naturalists in the city and
                        sell for you: things like that winged creature, this morning. I
                        don't know much in that line, but it must have been a moth, and it
                        might have been rare. I've seen them by the thousand in museums,
                        and in all nature I don't remember rarer colouring than their
                        wings. I'll order you a butterfly-net and box and show you how
                        scientists pin specimens. Possibly you can make a fine collection of these
                        swamp beauties. It will be all right for you to take a pair of different
                        moths and butterflies, but I don't want to hear of your  killing any birds. They are protected by heavy
                        fines."
                    McLean rode away and left Freckles staring aghast. Then he saw the point and
                        grinned sheepishly. Standing on the trail, he twirled the feather and
                        thought the morning over.
                    "Well, if life ain't getting to be worth living!"
                        he said wonderingly. "Biggest streak of luck I ever had!
                        'Bout time something was coming my way, but I wouldn't
                        ever thought anybody could strike such magnificent prospects through just a
                        falling feather."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    WHEREIN FRECKLES
                            BRAVELY FACES TROUBLE AND OPENS THE WAY FOR
                            NEW EXPERIENCES
                    
                    ON Duncan's return from his next trip to town
                        there was a big store-box loaded on the back of his wagon. He drove to the
                        west entrance of the swamp, set the box on a stump that Freckles had
                        selected in a beautiful and sheltered place, and made it secure on its
                        foundation with a tree at its back.
                    "It seems most a pity to nail into that tree," said Duncan.
                        "I haena the time to examine into the grain of it, but it looks as
                        if it might be a rare ane. Anyhow, the nailin' winna hurt it deep,
                        and havin' the case by it will make it safer if it is a guid
                        ane."
                    "Isn't it an oak?" asked Freckles.
                    "Ay," said Duncan. "It looks like it might be ane
                        of thae fine-grained golden anes that mak' such grand
                        furniture."
                    
                    When the body of the case was secure, Duncan made a door out of the lid and
                        fastened it on with hinges. He drove a staple, screwed on a latch, and gave
                        Freckles a small padlockso that he might safely fasten in his treasures. He
                        made a shelf in the top for the books, and last of all covered the case with
                        oil-cloth.
                    It was the first time in Freckles' life that any one had ever done
                        that much for his pleasure, and it warmed his heart with pure joy. If the
                        sides of the box had already been covered with the rarest treasures of the
                        Limberlost, he could have been no happier.
                    When the big teamster stood back to look over his work, he laughingly quoted,
                        " 'Neat, but no' gaudy,' as McLean says.
                        All we're needing now is a coat of paint to make a cupboard that
                        would turn Sarah green with envy. Ye'll find that safe an'
                        dry, lad, an' that's all that's needed."
                    "Mr. Duncan," said Freckles, "I don't
                        know why you are being so mighty good to me; but if you have any jobs up at
                        the cabin that I could do for you or Mrs. Duncan, hours off the line, it
                        would make me mighty happy."
                    Duncan laughed. "Ye needna feel ye are 
                        obliged to me, lad. Ye mauna think I could take a half-day off in the best
                        hauling season to go to town for boxes to rig up, and spend of my little for
                        fixtures."
                    "I knew Mr. McLean sent you," said Freckles, his eyes wide
                        and bright with happiness. "It's so good of him. How I
                        wish I could do something that would please him as much!"
                    "Why, Freckles," said Duncan, as he knelt and began
                        gathering up his tools, "I canna see that it will hurt ye to be
                        told that ye are doing every day a thing that pleases the Boss as much as
                        anything ye could do. Ye're being uncommon faithful, lad, and
                        honest as old Father Time. McLean is trusting ye as he would his own flesh
                        and blood."
                    "Oh, Duncan!" cried the happy boy. "Are you
                        sure?"
                    "Why, I know," answered Duncan. "I wadna venture
                        to say so else. In those first days he cautioned me na to tell ye that, but
                        now he wadna care. D'ye ken, Freckles, that some of the single
                        trees ye are guarding are worth a thousand dollars?"
                    Freckles caught his breath and stood speechless. He looked limp and his eyes
                        popped.
                    
                    "Ye see," said Duncan, "that's why they
                        maun be watched so closely. They tak', say, for instance, a burl
                        maplebird's-eye they call it in the factory, because it's
                        full o' wee knots and twists that look like the eye of a bird. They
                        saw it out in sheets no muckle thicker than writin' paper. Then
                        they make up the furniture out of cheaper wood and cover it with the
                        mapleveneer, they call it. When it's all done and polished ye never
                        saw onythin' grander. Gang into a retail shop the next time ye are
                        in town and see some. By sawin' it thin that way they get finish
                        for thousands of dollars' worth of furniture from a single tree. If
                        ye dinna watch faithful, and Black Jack gets out a few he has marked, it
                        means the loss of more money than ye ever dreamed of, lad. The other night,
                        down at camp, some son of Baalam was suggestin' that ye might be
                        sellin' the Boss out to Jack and lettin' him tak'
                        the trees secretly, and nobody wad ever ken till the gang gets
                        here."
                    A wave of scarlet flooded Freckles' face and he blazed hotly at the
                        insult.
                    "And the Boss," continued Duncan, coolly ignoring
                        Freckles' anger, "he lays back juist as  cool as cowcumbers an says,
                        'I'll give a thousand dollars to ony man that will show me
                        a fresh stump when we reach the Limberlost,' says he. Some of the
                        men juist snapped him up that they'd find some. So you see how the
                        Boss is trustin' ye, lad."
                    "I am gladder than I can ever expriss," said Freckles.
                        "And now will I be walking double time to keep some of them from
                        cutting a tree to get all that money"!
                    "Mither o' Moses!" howled Duncan. "Ye can
                        trust the Scotch to bungle things a'thegither. McLean was only
                        meanin' to show ye all confidence and honour. He's gone
                        and set a high price for some dirty whelp to ruin ye. I was juist
                        tryin' to show ye how he felt toward ye, and I've gone
                        an' give ye that worry to bear. Damn the Scotch! They're
                        so slow an' so dumb!"
                    "Exciptin' prisint company?" sweetly inquired
                        Freckles.
                    "No!" growled Duncan. "Headin' the list I
                        He'd nae business to set a price on ye, lad, for that's
                        about the amount of it, an' I'd nae business to tell ye.
                        We've both done ye ill, an' both meanin' the
                        verra best. Juist what I'm always tellin' Sarah."
                    
                    "I am mighty proud of what you have been telling me,
                        Duncan," said Freckles. "I need the warning, sure. For
                        with the books coming I might be timpted to neglect me work when double
                        watching is needed. Thank you more than I can tell for putting me on to it.
                        What you've told me may be the saving of me. I won't stop
                        for dinner now. I'll be getting along the east line, and when I get
                        around about three maybe Mother Duncan will let me have a glass of milk and
                        a bite of something."
                    "Ye see now!" cried Duncan in disgust.
                        "Ye'll start on that seven-mile tramp with na bite to stay
                        your stomach. What was it I told ye?"
                    "You told me that the Scotch had the hardest heads and the softest
                        hearts of any people that's living," answered Freckles.
                    Duncan grunted in a sort of gratified disapproval.
                    Freckles picked up his club and started down the line, whistling cheerily,
                        and he had an unusually long repertory upon which to draw.
                    Duncan went straight to the lower camp and, calling McLean aside, repeated
                        the conversation  verbatim, ending,
                        "And nae matter what happens, now or ever, dinna ye dare let
                        onythin' make ye believe that Freckles hasna guarded faithful as
                        ony man could."
                    "I don't think anything could shake my faith in the
                        lad," answered McLean.
                    Freckles was whistling merrily. He kept one eye religiously on the line. The
                        other he divided between the path, his friends of the wire, and a search of
                        the sky for his latest arrivals. Every day since their coming he had seen
                        them, either hanging like small, black clouds above the swamp, or bobbing
                        over logs and trees with their queer, tilting walk. Whenever he could spare
                        time, he entered the swamp and tried to make friends with them, and they
                        were the tamest of all his unnumbered subjects. They ducked, dodged, and
                        ambled about him, over logs and bushes, and not even a near approach would
                        drive them to flight.
                    For two weeks he had found them circling over the Limberlost regularly, but
                        one morning the female was missing and only the big black chicken hung
                        sentinel above the swamp. His mate did not reappear in the following days,
                        and Freckles grew very anxious. He spoke of it to Mrs.  Duncan, and she quieted his fears by raising a delightful hope
                        in their stead.
                    "Why, Freckles, if it's the hen bird ye are missing,
                        it's ten to ane she's safe," she said.
                        "She's laid, and is setting, ye silly! Watch him and mark
                        whaur he lichts. Then follow and find the nest. Some Sabbath we'll
                        all gang see it."
                    Accepting this theory, Freckles began searching for the nest. Because these
                        "chickens" were large, like the hawks, he looked among the
                        treetops until he almost sprained the back of his neck. He had half the crow
                        and hawk nests in the swamp located. He searched for this nest instead of
                        collecting subjects for his case. He found the pair the middle of one
                        forenoon on the elm where he had watched their love-making. The big black
                        chicken was feeding his mate; so it was proven that they were a pair, they
                        were both alive, and undoubtedly she was brooding. After that
                        Freckles' nest-hunting went on with renewed zeal, but as he had no
                        idea where to look and Duncan could offer no helpful suggestion, the nest
                        was no nearer being found.
                    Coming from a long day on the trail, Freckles saw Duncan's children
                        awaiting him much  closer the swale than they
                        usually ventured, and from their wild gestures he knew that something had
                        happened. He broke into a run, but the cry that reached him was,
                        "The books have come!"
                    How they hurried! Freckles lifted the youngest to his shoulder, the second
                        took his club and dinner-pail, and when they came up they found Mrs. Duncan
                        at work on a big box. She had just loosened the lid, and now she laughingly
                        sat down on it.
                    "Ye canna have a peep in here until ye have washed and eaten
                        supper," she said. "It's all ready on the table.
                        Ance ye begin on this, ye'll no be willin' to
                        tak' your nose o' it till bedtime, and I willna get my
                        work done the nicht. We've eaten long ago."
                    It was hard work, but Freckles smiled bravely. He made himself neat,
                        swallowed a few bites, and came so eagerly that Mrs. Duncan yielded,
                        although she said she very well knew all the time that his supper would be
                        spoiled.
                    Lifting the lid, they removed the packing and found in that box books on
                        birds, trees, flowers, moths, and butterflies. There was also one containing
                        Freckles' bullfrog, true to life. And 
                        besides these were a butterfly-net, a naturalist's tin
                        specimen-box, a bottle of gasoline, a box of cotton, a paper of long, steel
                        specimen-pins, and a letter telling what all these things were and how to
                        use them.
                    At the discovery of each new treasure, Freckles shouted, "Will you
                        be looking at this, now?"
                    Mrs. Duncan cried, "Weel, I be drawed on!"
                    The eldest boy turned a somersault for every extra, and the baby, trying to
                        follow his example, bunched over in a little sidewise sprawl and cut his
                        foot on the ax with which his mother had pried up the box-lid. That sobered
                        them, and they carried the books indoors. Mrs. Duncan had a top shelf in her
                        closet cleared for them, well out of the reach of meddling little fingers.
                    When Freckles started for the trail next morning, the shining new
                        specimen-box flashed on his back. The black "chicken," a
                        mere speck in the blue, caught the gleam of it and wondered what it was. The
                        folded net hung by the boy's hatchet, and the bird-book was in the
                        box. He walked the line and tested each section scrupulously, watching every
                        foot of the trail, for he was determined not to slight his work; but  if ever a boy "made haste
                        slowly" in a hurry, it was Freckles that morning. When at last he
                        reached the space he had cleared out and fitted up around his case, his
                        heart swelled with the pride of possessing even so much that he could call
                        his own, and his quick eyes feasted on the beauty of it.
                    He had made a large room with the door of the case set even with one side of
                        it. On three sides, fine big bushes of wild rose climbed to the lower
                        branches of the trees. Part of his walls were mallow, part alder, thorn,
                        willow, and dogwood. Below there filled in a solid mass of pale pink
                        sheep-laurel, and yellow St. John's-wort, while the amber threads
                        of the dodder interlaced everywhere. At one side the swamp came close, and
                        cattails grew in profusion. In front of them he had planted a row of
                        water-hyacinths without disturbing in the least the state of their azure
                        bloom, and where the ground rose higher for his floor, a row of foxfire,
                        that would soon be open.
                    To the left he had discovered a queer natural arrangement of the trees, that
                        grew to giant size and were set in a gradually narrowing space so that a
                        long, open vista stretched away until lost  in
                        the dim recesses of the swamp. A little trimming back of underbush, rolling
                        out of dead logs, levelling of floor and carpeting of moss, made it easy to
                        understand why Freckles had named this the "cathedral";
                        yet he had never been taught that "the groves were God's
                        first temples."
                    On either side of the trees that constituted the first arch of this dim vista
                        of the swamp he planted ferns that grew waist-high thus early in the season,
                        and so skilfully had the work been done that not a frond drooped because of
                        the change. Opposite, he cleared a space and made a flowerbed. He filled one
                        end with every delicate, lacy vine and fern he could successfully
                        transplant. The body of the bed was a riot of colour. Here he set growing
                        dainty blue-eyed-Marys and blue-eyed grass side by side. He planted
                        hare-bells; violets, blue, white, and yellow; wild geranium,
                        cardinal-flower, columbine, pink snake's-mouth, buttercups, painted
                        trilliums, and orchis. Here were blood-root, moccasin-flower, hepatica,
                        pitcher-plant, Jack-in-the-pulpit, and every other flower of the Limberlost
                        that was in bloom of bore a bud presaging a flower. Every day saw  the addition of new specimens. The place would
                        have set a botanist wild.
                    On the line side he left the bushes thick for concealment, and entered by a
                        narrow path he and Duncan had cleared in setting up the case. He called this
                        the front door, though he used every precaution to hide it. He built rustic
                        seats between several of the trees, levelled the floor, and thickly carpeted
                        it with rank, heavy, woolly-dog moss. About the case he planted wild
                        clematis, bitter-sweet, and wild grapevines, and trained them over it until
                        it was almost covered. Every day he planted new flowers, cut back rough
                        bushes, and coaxed out graceful ones. His pride in his room was very great,
                        but he had no idea how surprisingly beautiful it would appear to any one
                        that had not witnessed its growth and construction.
                    This morning Freckles walked straight to his case, unlocked it, and set his
                        apparatus and dinner inside. He planted a new specimen he had found near the
                        trail, and, bringing his old scrap-bucket from the corner in which it was
                        hidden, from a near-by pool he dipped water and poured it over his carpet
                        and flowers.
                    
                    Then he took out the bird-book, settled comfortably on a bench, and with a
                        deep sigh of satisfaction turned to the section headed
                        "V." Past "veery" and
                        "vireo" he went, on down the line until his finger,
                        trembling with eagerness, stopped at "vulture."
                    "'Great black California Vulture,'" he
                        read
                    "Humph! This side the Rockies will do for us."
                    "'Common turkey-buzzard.'"
                    "Well, we ain't hunting common turkeys. McLean said
                        chickens, and what he says goes."
                    "'Black vulture of the South.'"
                    "Here we are arrived at once."
                    Freckles' finger followed the line, and he read scraps aloud.
                    "'Common in the South. Sometimes called Jim Crow. Nearest
                        equivalent to C-a-t-h-a-r-t-e-s A-t-r-a-t-a.'"
                    "How the divil am I ever to learn them corkin' big words by
                        meself?"
                    "'the Pharaoh's Chickens of European species.
                        Sometimes stray North as far as Virginia and Kentucky'"
                    "And sometimes farther," interpolated Freckles,  "'cos I got them right here
                        in Indiana so like these pictures I can just see me big chicken bobbing up
                        to get his ears boxed. Hey?"
                    "'Light-blue eggs'"
                    "Golly! I got to be seeing them!"
                    "big as a common turkey's, but shaped like a
                        hen's, heavily splotched with chocolate'"
                    "Caramels, I suppose. And"
                    "'in hollow logs or stumps.'"
                    "Oh, hagginy! Wasn't I barking up the wrong tree, though?
                        Ought to been looking near the ground all this time. Now it's all
                        to do over, and I suspect the sooner I start the sooner I'll be
                        likely to find them."
                    Freckles put away his book, dampened the smudge-fire, without which the
                        mosquitoes made the swamp almost unbearable, took his cudgel and lunch, and
                        went out to the line. He sat down on a log, ate at dinner-time and drank his
                        last drop of water. The heat of June was growing intense. Even on the west
                        of the swamp, where one had full benefit of the breeze from the upland, it
                        was beginning to be unpleasant in the middle of the day.
                    He brushed the crumbs from his knees and sat 
                        resting a little and watching the sky to see if his big chicken were hanging
                        up there. But he came to earth abruptly, for there were steps coming down
                        the trail that were neither McLean's nor Duncan'sand there
                        never had been others. Freckles' heart leaped hotly. He ran a quick
                        hand over his belt to feel if his revolver and hatchet were there, caught up
                        his cudgel and laid it across his kneesthen sat quietly, waiting. Was it
                        Black Jack, or some one even worse? Forced to do something to brace his
                        nerves, he puckered his stiffening lips and began whistling a tune he had
                        led in his clear tenor every year of his life at the Home Christmas
                        exercises.
                    
                        "Who comes this way, so blithe and gay,
                        Upon a merry Christmas day?"
                    
                    His quick Irish wit roused to the ridiculousness of it and he burst into a
                        laugh that steadied him amazingly.
                    Through the bushes he caught a glimpse of the on-coming figure. His heart
                        flooded with joy, for it was a man from the gang. Wessner had been his
                        bunk-mate the night he came down the corduroy. He knew him as well as any of
                        McLean's men. This was no timber-thief. No  doubt the Boss had sent him with a message. Freckles sprang up
                        and called cheerily, a warm welcome on his face.
                    "Well, it's good telling if you're glad to see
                        me," said Wessner, with something very like a breath of relief.
                        "We been hearing down at the camp you were so mighty touchy you
                        didn't allow a man within a rod of the line."
                    "No more do I," answered Freckles, "if
                        he's a stranger, but you're from McLean, ain't
                        you?"
                    "Oh, damn McLean!" said Wessner.
                    Freckles gripped the cudgel until his knuckles slowly turned purple.
                    "And are you railly saying so?" he inquired with elaborate
                        politeness.
                    "Yes, I am," said Wessner. "So would every other
                        man of the gang if they wasn't too big cowards to say anything,
                        unless maybe that other slobbering old Scotchman, Duncan. Grinding the lives
                        out of us! Working us like dogs, and paying us starvation wages, while he
                        rolls up his millions and lives like a prince!"
                    Green lights began to play through the gray of Freckles' eyes.
                    "Wessner," he said impressively, "you'd
                        make  a fine pattern for the father of liars!
                        Every man on that gang is strong and hilthy, paid all he earns, and treated
                        with the courtesy of a gintleman! As for the Boss living like a prince, he
                        shares fare with you every day of your lives!"
                    Wessner was not a born diplomat, but he saw he was on the wrong tack, and he
                        tried another.
                    "How would you like to make a good big pile of money, without even
                        lifting your hand?" he asked.
                    "Humph!" said Freckles. "Have you been up to
                        Chicago and cornered wheat, and are you offering me a friendly tip on the
                        invistmint of me fortune?"
                    Wessner came close.
                    "Freckles, old fellow," he said, "if you let me
                        give you a pointer, I can put you on to making a cool five hundred without
                        stepping out of your tracks."
                    Freckles drew back.
                    "You needn't be afraid of speaking up," he said.
                        "There isn't a soul in the Limberlost save the birds and
                        the beasts, unless some of your sort's come along and's
                        crowding the privileges of the legal tinints."
                    
                    "None of my friends along," said Wessner.
                        "Nobody knew I came but Black JI mean a friend of mine. If you want
                        to hear sense and act with reason, he can see you later, but it
                        ain't necessary. We can make all the plans needed. The
                        trick's so dead small and easy."
                    "Must be if you have the engineering of it," said Freckles.
                        But he heard, with a sigh of relief, that they were alone.
                    Wessner was impervious. "You just bet it is! Why, only think,
                        Freckles, slavin' away at a measly little thirty dollars a month,
                        and here is a chance to clear five hundred in a day! You surely
                        won't be the fool to miss it!"
                    "And how was you proposing for me to stale it?" inquired
                        Freckles. "Or am I just to find it laying in me path about the
                        line?"
                    "That's it, Freckles," blustered the Dutchman.
                        "you're just to find it. You needn't do a thing.
                        You needn't know a thing. You name a morning when you will walk up
                        the west side of the swamp and then turn round and walk back down the same
                        side again and the money is yours. Couldn't anything be easier than
                        that, could it?'
                    "Depinds entirely on the man," said Freckles  The lilt of a lark hanging above the swale
                        beside them was not sweeter than the sweetness of his voice. "To
                        some it would seem to come aisy as breathing; and to some, wringin'
                        the last drop of their hearts' blood couldn't force thim!
                        I'm not the man that goes into a scheme like that with the
                        blindfold over me eyes, for, you see, it manes to break trust with the Boss;
                        and I've served him faithful as I knew. You'll have to be
                        making the thing very clear to me understanding."
                    "It's so dead easy," repeated Wessner,
                        "it makes me tired of the simpleness of it. You see,
                        there's a few trees in the swamp that's real goldmines.
                        There's three especial. Two are back in, but one's square
                        on the line. Why, your pottering old Scotch fool of a Boss nailed the wire
                        to it with his own hands! He never noticed where the bark had been peeled,
                        nor saw what it was. If you will stay on this side of the trail just one day
                        we can have it cut, loaded, and ready to drive out at night. Next morning
                        you can find it, report, and be the busiest man in the search for us. We
                        know where to fix it all safe and easy. Then McLean has a bet up with a
                        couple of the gang that there can't be a raw stump found in the  Limberlost. There's plenty of
                        witnesses to swear to it, and I know three that will. There's a
                        cool thousand, and this tree is worth all of that raw. Say, it's a
                        gold-mine, I tell you, and just five hundred of it is yours.
                        There's no danger on earth to you, for you've got McLean
                        that bamboozled you could sell out the whole swamp and he'd never
                        mistrust you. What do you say?"
                    Freckles' soul was satisfied. "Is that all?" he
                        asked.
                    "No, it ain't," said Wessner. "If you
                        really want to brace up and be a man and go into the thing for keeps, you
                        can make five times that in a week. My friend knows a dozen others we could
                        get out in a few days, and all you'd have to do would be to keep
                        out of sight. Then you could take your money and skip some night, and begin
                        life like a gentleman somewhere else. What do you think about it?"
                    Freckles purred like a kitten.
                    "'Twould be a rare joke on the Boss," he said,
                        "to be staalin' from him the very thing he's
                        trusted me to guard, and be getting me wages all winter throwed in free. And
                        you're making the pay awful high. Me to be getting five hundred  for such a simple little thing as that.
                        You're trating me most royal indade! It's away beyond all
                        I'd be expecting. Sivinteen cints would be a big price for that
                        job. It must be looked into thorough. Just you wait here until I do a
                        minute's turn in the swamp, and then I'll be eschorting
                        you out to the clearing and giving you the answer."
                    Freckles lifted the overhanging bushes and hurried back to the case. He
                        unslung the specimen box and laid it inside with his hatchet and revolver.
                        He slipped the key in his pocket and went back to Wessner.
                    "Now for the answer," he said. "Stand
                        up!"
                    There was iron in his voice, and he was commanding like an outraged general.
                        "Anything you want to be taking off?" he questioned.
                    Wessner looked the astonishment he felt. "Why, no,
                        Freckles," he said.
                    "Have the goodness to be calling me Mister McLean," snapped
                        Freckles. "I'm after resarvin' me pet name for
                        the use of me friends! You may stand with your back to the light or be
                        taking any advantage you want."
                    "Why, what do you mean?" spluttered Wessner.
                    "I'm manin'," said Freckles tersely,
                        "to lick  a quarter-section of hell
                        out of you, and may the Holy Vargin stay me before I leave you here carrion,
                        for your carcass would turn the stummicks of me chickens!"
                    Down at the camp that morning, Wessner's conduct had been so
                        palpable an excuse to force a discharge that Duncan moved near McLean and
                        whispered, "Think of the boy, sir?"
                    McLean was so troubled that, an hour later, he mounted Nellie and followed
                        Wessner to his home in Wildcat Hollow, only to find that he had left there a
                        little before, heading for the Limberlost. McLean rode at top speed. When
                        Mrs. Duncan told him that a man answering Wessner's description had
                        gone down the west side of the swamp near noon, he left the mare in her
                        charge and followed on foot. When he heard voices he entered the swamp and
                        silently crept near just in time to hear Wessner whine, "But I
                        can't fight you, Freckles. I hain't done nothing to you.
                        I'm away bigger than you, and you've only one
                        hand."
                    The Boss slid off his coat and crouched among the bushes, like a tiger ready
                        to spring; but as Freckles' voice reached him he held himself, with
                             the effort of his life, to see what mettle
                        was in the boy.
                    "Don't you be wasting of me good time in the numbering of
                        me hands," howled Freckles. "The stringth of me cause will
                        make up for the weakness of me mimbers, and the size of a cowardly thief
                        don't count. You'll think all the wildcats of the
                        Limberlost is turned loose on you whin I come aginst you, and as for me
                        causeI slept with you, Wessner, the night I come down the corduroy like a
                        dirty, friendless tramp, and the Boss was for taking me up, washing,
                        clothing, and feeding me, and giving me a home full of love and tinderness,
                        and a master to look to, and good, well-earned money in the bank.
                        He's trusting me his heartful, and here comes you, you spotted toad
                        of the big road, and insults me, as is an honest Irish gintleman, by hinting
                        that you concaive I'd be willing to shut me eyes and hold fast
                        while you rob him of the thing I was set and paid to guard, and then act the
                        sneak and liar to him, and ruin and etarnally blacken the soul of me. You
                        damned rascal," raved Freckles, "be fighting before I
                        forget the laws of a gintlemin's game and split your dirty head
                        with me stick!"
                    
                    Wessner backed away, mumbling, "But I don't want to hurt
                        you, Freckles!"
                    "Oh, don't you!" raged the boy, now fairly
                        frothing. "Well, you ain't resembling me none, for
                        I'm itchin' like death to git me fingers in the face of
                        you."
                    He danced up, and, as Wessner lunged out in self-defence, ducked under his
                        arm like a bantam and punched him in the pit of the stomach so that he
                        doubled up with a groan. Before Wessner could straighten himself, Freckles
                        was on him, fighting like the wildest fury that ever left the soil of the
                        beautiful island. The Dutchman dealt thundering blows that sometimes landed
                        and sent Freckles reeling, and sometimes missed, while he went plunging into
                        the swale with the impetus of them. Freckles could not strike with half
                        Wessner's force, but he could land three blows to the
                        Dutchman's one. It was here that Freckles' days of alert
                        watching on the line, the perpetual swinging of the heavy cudgel, and the
                        endurance of all weather stood him in good stead; for he was as tough as a
                        pine-knot and as agile as a panther. He danced, ducked, and dodged. For the
                        first five minutes he endured fearful punishment.  Then Wessner's breath commenced to whistle between his
                        teeth, when Freckles had only just begun fighting. He sprang back with
                        shrill laughter.
                    "Begolly! and will your honour be whistling the hornpipe for me to
                        be dancing of?" he cried.
                    
                        Spang! went his fist into Wessner's face, and he
                        was past him into the swale.
                    "And would you be plased to tune up a little livelier?" he
                        gasped. and clipped his ear as he sprang back. Wessner lunged at him in
                        blind fury. Freckles, seeing an opening, forgot the laws of a
                        gentleman's game and drove the toe of his heavy wading-boot into
                        Wessner's middle until he doubled up and fell heavily. In a flash
                        Freckles was on him. For a time McLean could not see what was happening.
                        "Go! Go to him now!" he commanded himself, but so intense
                        was his desire to see the boy win alone that he could not stir.
                    At last Freckles sprang up and backed away. "Time!" he
                        yelled like a fury. "Be getting up, Mr. Wessner, and don't
                        be afraid of hurting me. I'll let you throw in an extra hand and
                        lick you to me complate satisfaction all the same. Did you  hear me call the limit? Will you get up and be
                        facing me?"
                    As Wessner struggled to his feet, he resembled a battle-field, for his
                        clothing was in ribbons and his face and hands streaming blood.
                    "II guess I got enough," he mumbled.
                    "Oh, do you?" roared Freckles. "Well, this
                        ain't your say. You come onto me ground, lying about me Boss and
                        intimatin' I'd stale from his very pockets. Now will you
                        be standing up and taking your medicine like a man, or getting it poured
                        down the throat of you like a baby? I ain't got enough! This is
                        only just the beginning with me. Be looking out there!"
                    He sprang against Wessner and sent him rolling. He attacked the unresisting
                        figure and fought him until he lay limp and still and Freckles had no
                        strength left to lift an arm. Then he rose and stepped back, gasping for
                        breath. With his first good lungful of air he shouted
                        "Time!" But the figure of Wessner lay motionless.
                    Freckles watched him with regardful eye and saw at last that he was
                        completely exhausted. He bent over him, and, catching him by the back of the
                        neck, jerked him to his knees. Wessner  lifted
                        the face of a whipped cur, and, fearing further punishment, burst into great
                        shivering sobs, while the tears washed tiny rivulets through the blood and
                        muck. Freckles stepped back, glaring at Wessner, but suddenly the scowl of
                        anger and the ugly, disfiguring red faded from the boys' face. He
                        dabbed at a cut on his temple from which issued a tiny crimson stream, and
                        jauntily shook back his hair. His face took on the innocent look of a
                        cherub, and his voice rivalled that of a brooding dove, but into his eyes
                        crept a look of diabolical mischief.
                    He glanced vaguely about him until he saw his club, seized and twirled it
                        like a drum-major, stuck it upright in the muck, and marched on tiptoe over
                        to Wessner, mechanically, as a puppet worked by a string. Bending over,
                        Freckles reached an arm about Wessner's waist and helped him to his
                        feet.
                    "Careful, now," he cautioned; "be careful, Freddy;
                        there's danger of you hurting me."
                    Fishing a handkerchief from a back pocket, Freckles tenderly wiped
                        Wessner's eyes and nose.
                    "Come, Freddy, me child," he admonished Wessner;
                        "it's time little boys were getting home.  I've me work to do, and
                        can't be intertaining you any more to-day. Come back to-morrow, if
                        you ain't through yet, and we'll repate the perfarmance.
                        Don't be staring at me so wild like! I would eat you, but I
                        can't afford it. Me earnings, being honest, come slow, and
                        I've no money to be squanderin' on the pailful of
                        Dispeptic's Delight it would be taking to work you out of my
                        innards!"
                    Again an awful wrenching seized McLean. Freckles stepped back as Wessner,
                        tottering and reeling like a thoroughly drunken man, came toward the path,
                        looking indeed as if wildcats had taken their fill of him.
                    The cudgel spun high in air, and catching it with an expertness acquired by
                        long practise on the line, the boy twirled it a second, shook back his thick
                        hair bonnily, and, stepping out into the trail, followed Wessner. Because
                        Freckles was Irish, it was impossible to do it silently, and presently his
                        clear tenor rang out, though there were bad catches where he was hard
                        pressed for breath:
                    
                        "It was the Dutch. It was the Dutch.
                        Do you think it was the Irish hollered help?
                        Not much!
                        It was the Dutch. It was the Dutch"
                    
                    
                    Wessner turned and mumbled: "What you following me for? What you
                        going to do with me?"
                    Freckles called the Limberlost to witness. "How's that for
                        the ingratitude of a beast? And me troubling meself to show him off me
                        territory with the honours of war!"
                    Then he changed his tone completely and added: "Belike it's
                        this, Freddy. You see, the Boss might come riding down this trail any
                        minute, and the little mare's so wheedlesome that if she'd
                        come on to you in your prisint state all of a sudden, she'd stop
                        that short she'd send Mr. McLean out over the ears of her. No
                        disparagement intinded to the sinse of the mare!" he added hastily.
                    Wessner belched a fearful oath, and Freckles laughed merrily.
                    "That's a sample of the thanks a generous act's
                        always for getting," he continued. "Here's me
                        neglictin' me work to eshcort you out proper, and you saying such
                        awful words. Freddy," he demanded sternly, "do you want me
                        to soap out your mouth? You don't seem to be realising it, but if
                        you was to buck into Mr. McLean in your prisint state, without me there to
                        explain matters,  the chance is he'd
                        cut the liver out of you; and I shouldn't think you'd be
                        wanting such a fine gintleman as him to see that it's
                        white!"
                    Wessner grew ghastly under his grime and broke into a staggering run.
                    "And now will you be looking at the manners of him?"
                        questioned Freckles plaintively. "Going without even a
                        'thank you,' right in the face of all the pains
                        I've taken to make it interesting for him!"
                    Freckles twirled the baton and stood like a soldier at
                        "attention" until Wessner left the clearing, but it was
                        the last scene of that performance. When the boy turned, there was a deathly
                        illness in his face, and his legs wavered like reeds beneath his weight. He
                        staggered back to the case, and opening it he took out a piece of cloth. He
                        dipped it into the water, and sitting on a bench, he wiped the blood and
                        grime from his face, while his breath sucked between his clenched teeth. He
                        was shivering with pain and excitement in spite of himself. He unbuttoned
                        the band of his right sleeve, and, turning it back, exposed the blue-lined,
                        calloused whiteness of his maimed arm, now vividly streaked with contusions,
                        while  in a series of circular dots the blood
                        oozed slowly. Here Wessner had succeeded in setting his teeth. When Freckles
                        saw what it was he forgave himself the kick in the pit of Wessner's
                        stomach, and cursed fervently and deep.
                    "Freckles, Freckles," said McLean's voice.
                    Freckles snatched down his sleeve and rose to his feet.
                    "Excuse me, sir," he said. "You'll surely
                        be belavin' I thought meself alone."
                    McLean pushed him carefully to the seat, and, bending over him, opened a
                        pocket-case that he carried as regularly as his revolver and watch, for cuts
                        and bruises were of daily occurrence among the gang.
                    Taking the hurt arm, he turned back the sleeve and bathed and bound up the
                        wounds. He examined Freckles' head and body and convinced himself
                        that there was no permanent injury, although the cruelty of the punishment
                        the boy had borne set the Boss shuddering. Then he closed the case, shoved
                        it into his pocket, and sat down beside Freckles. All the indescribable
                        beauty of the place was strong about him, but he saw only the bruised face
                        of the suffering boy,  who had hedged for the
                        information he wanted like a diplomat, argued like a judge, fought like a
                        sheik, and triumphed like a devil.
                    As the pain lessened and breath caught up with Freckles' pounding
                        heart, he watched the Boss from the tail of his eye. How had McLean gotten
                        there and how long had he been there? Freckles did not dare ask. At last he
                        arose and, going to the case, took out his revolver and the wire-mending
                        apparatus and locked the door. Then he turned to McLean.
                    "Have you any orders, sir?" he asked.
                    "Yes," said McLean, "I have, and you are to follow
                        them to the letter. Turn over that apparatus to me and go straight home.
                        Soak yourself in the hottest bath your skin will bear and go to bed at once.
                        Now hurry."
                    "Mr. McLean," said Freckles, "it's sorry
                        I am to be telling you, but the afternoon's walking of the line
                        ain't done. You see, I was just for getting to me feet to start,
                        and I was on good time, when up came a gintleman, and we got into a little
                        heated argument. It's either settled, or it's just begun,
                        but between us, I'm that late I haven't started for the
                        afternoon yet I must be going at once, for there's a tree I must
                        find before the day's over."
                    
                    "You plucky little idiot," growled McLean. "You
                        can't walk the line! I doubt if you can get to Duncan's.
                        Don't you know when you are done up? You go to bed; I'll
                        finish your work."
                    "Niver!" protested Freckles. " I was just a little
                        done up for the prisint, a minute ago. I'm all right now.
                        Riding-boots are away too low. The day's hot and the walk a good
                        seven miles, sir. Niver!"
                    As he reached for the outfit he pitched forward and his eyes closed. McLean
                        stretched him on the moss and applied restoratives. When Freckles returned
                        to consciousness, McLean ran to the cabin to tell Mrs. Duncan to get a hot
                        bath ready, and to bring Nellie. That worthy woman promptly filled the
                        wash-boiler and set a roaring fire under it. She pushed the horse-trough off
                        its base and rolled it up to the kitchen.
                    By the time McLean came again, leading Nellie and holding Freckles on her
                        back, Mrs. Duncan was ready for business. She and the Boss laid Freckles in
                        the trough and poured on hot water until he squirmed. They soaked, rubbed,
                        and scoured him. Then they let the hot water off and closed his pores with
                        cold. Lastly they  stretched him on the floor
                        and chafed, rubbed, and kneaded him until he cried out for mercy. As they
                        rolled him into bed, his eyes dropped shut, but a little later they flared
                        open.
                    "Mr. McLean," he cried, "the tree! Oh, do be
                        looking after the tree!"
                    McLean bent over him. "Which tree, Freckles?"
                    "I don't know exact, sir; but it's on the east
                        line, and the wire is fastened to it. He bragged that you nailed it
                        yourself, sir. You'll know it by the bark having been laid open to
                        the grain somewhere low down, and it was five hundred dollars he offered
                        meto beselling you outsir!"
                    Freckles' head rolled over and his eyes dropped shut. McLean towered
                        over him. His bright hair waved back on the pillow. His face was swollen,
                        and purple with bruises. His left arm, with the hand battered almost out of
                        shape, stretched beside him, and the right, with no hand at all, lay across
                        a chest that was a mass of purple welts. McLean's mind travelled
                        back to the night, nearly a year before, when he had engaged Freckles, a
                        stranger.
                    
                    McLean bent, covering the hurt arm with one hand and laying the other with a
                        caress on the boy's forehead. Freckles stirred at his touch, and
                        twittered as softly as the swallows under the eaves. "If
                        you're coming this wayto-morrowbe pleased to step overand
                        we'll rapate thechorus softly!"
                    "Bless the gritty devil," growled McLean.
                    Then he went out and told Mrs. Duncan to keep close watch on Freckles, and
                        send Duncan to him at the swamp the minute he came home. Following the trail
                        down to the line and back to the scene of the fight, the Boss entered
                        Freckles' study softly, as if his spirit, sleeping there, might be
                        roused, and gazed about with astonished eyes.
                    How had the boy conceived it? What a picture he had wrought in living
                        colours! He had the heart of a painter. He had the soul of a poet. The Boss
                        stepped carefully over the velvet carpet and touched the walls of crisp
                        verdure with gentle fingers. He stood long beside the flower-bed, and gazed
                        at the banked wall of bright flowers as if he could never leave off.
                    Where had Freckles ever found, and how had  he
                        transplanted, such ferns? As McLean turned from them he stopped suddenly.
                    He had reached the door of the cathedral. That which Freckles had attempted
                        would have been patent to any one. What had been in the heart of the shy,
                        silent boy when he had found that long, dim stretch of forest, decorated its
                        entrance, cleared and smoothed its aisle, and carpeted its altar? What
                        veriest work of God was in these mighty living pillars and the arched dome
                        of green! How like stained cathedral windows were the long openings between
                        the trees, filled with rifts of blue, rays of gold, and the shifting emerald
                        of leaves! Where could be found mosaics to match this aisle paved with
                        living colour and glowing lights? Was Freckles a devout Christian, and did
                        he worship here? Or was he an untaught heathen, and down this vista of
                        entrancing loveliness did Pan come piping, and dryads, nymphs, and fairies
                        dance for him?
                    Who can fathom the heart of a boy? McLean had been thinking of Freckles as a
                        creature of unswerving honesty, courage, and faithfulness. Here was evidence
                        of a heart aching for beauty  art,
                        companionship, worship. It was writ large all over the floor, walls, and
                        furnishing of that little Limberlost clearing.
                    When Duncan came, McLean told him the story of the fight, and they laughed
                        until they cried. Then they started around the line in search of the tree.
                    Said Duncan: "Now the boy is in for sore trouble!"
                    "I hope not," answered McLean. "You never in all
                        your life saw a cur whipped so completely. He won't come back for
                        the repetition of the chorus. We can surely find the tree. If we
                        can't, Freckles can. I will bring enough of the gang to take it out
                        at once. That will insure peace for a time, at least, and I am hoping that
                        in a month more the whole gang can be moved here. It will soon be fall, and
                        then, if he will go, I intend to send Freckles to my mother to be educated.
                        With his quickness of mind and body and a few years' good help he
                        can do anything. Why, Duncan, I'd give a hundred-dollar bill if you
                        could have been here and seen for yourself."
                    "Yes, and I'd 'a' done murder,"
                        muttered the big teamster. "I hope, sir, ye will make good  your plans for Freckles, though I'd
                        as soon see ony born child o' my ain taken from our home. We love
                        the lad, me and Sarah."
                    Locating the tree was an easy task, because it was so well identified. When
                        the rumble of the big lumber-wagons passing the cabin on the way to the
                        swamp wakened Freckles next morning, he sprang up and was soon following
                        them. He was so sore and stiff that every movement was torture at first, but
                        he grew easier, and shortly did not suffer so much. McLean scolded him for
                        coming, yet in his heart triumphed over every new evidence of fineness in
                        the boy.
                    The tree was a giant maple, and so precious that they almost dug it out by
                        the roots. When it was down, cut in lengths, and loaded, there was still an
                        empty wagon. As they were gathering up their tools to go, Duncan said:
                    "There's a big hollow tree somewhere mighty near here that
                        I've been wanting for a watering-trough for my stock; the ane I
                        have is so small. The Portland company cut this for elm butts last year, and
                        it's six feet diameter and hollow for forty feet. It was a buster!
                        While the men are here and there is an empty wagon, why  mightn't I load it on and tak' it up to the
                        barn as we pass?"
                    McLean said he was very willing, ordered the driver to pull out of line to go
                        for the log, and detailed men with the loading apparatus to assist them.
                    He had told Freckles to ride on a section of the maple with him, but now the
                        boy begged to go into the swamp with Duncan.
                    "I don't see why you want to go?" said McLean.
                        "I have no business to let you out to-day at all."
                    "It's me chickens," whispered Freckles in
                        distress. "You see, I was just after finding yesterday, from me new
                        book, how they do be nesting in hollow trees, and there ain't any
                        too many in the swamp. There's just a chance that they might be in
                        that one."
                    "Go ahead," said McLean. "That's a
                        different story. If they happen to be there, why, tell Duncan he must give
                        up the tree until they have finished with it."
                    Then he climbed into a wagon and was driven away. Freckles hurried into the
                        swamp. He was some little distance behind, but he could still see the men.
                        Before he overtook them, they had  turned from
                        the west road and had entered the swamp toward the east.
                    They stopped at the trunk of a monstrous prostrate log. It had been cut about
                        three feet from the ground, over three-fourths of the way through, and had
                        fallen to the east, the body of the log still resting on the stump. The
                        underbrush was almost impenetrable, but Duncan plunged in and with a crowbar
                        began tapping along the trunk to decide how far it was hollow, so that they
                        would know where to take it off. As they waited his decision, there came
                        from the mouth of iton winga great black bird and swept over their heads.
                    Freckles danced wildly. "It's me chickens! Oh,
                        it's me chickens!" he shouted. "Oh, Duncan, come
                        quick! You've found the nest of me precious chickens!"
                    Duncan hurried down to the mouth of the log, but Freckles was before him. He
                        crashed through poison-vines and underbrush regardless of any danger, and
                        climbed on the stump. When Duncan got there he was shouting like a wild
                        thing.
                    "It's hatched!" he yelled. "Oh, me big
                             chicken has hatched out me little
                        chicken, and there's another egg. I can see it plain, and, oh, the
                        funny little white baby! Oh, Duncan, can you see me little white
                        chicken?"
                    Duncan could easily see it, and so could every one else. Freckles crept back
                        into the log and tenderly carried the hissing, blinking little thing out to
                        the light in a leaf-lined hat. The men found it sufficiently wonderful to
                        satisfy even Freckles, who had forgotten he was ever sore or stiff, and
                        coddled over it with every blarneying term of endearment he knew.
                    Duncan gathered up his tools. "Deal's off, boys!"
                        he said cheerfully. "This log mauna be touched until
                        Freckles' chaukies have finished with it. We might as weel gang.
                        Better put it back, Freckles. It's just out, and it may chill. Ye
                        will probably hae twa the morn."
                    Freckles crept back into the log and carefully deposited the baby beside the
                        egg. When he came back, he said: " I made a big mistake not to be
                        bringing the egg out with the baby, but I was fearing to touch it.
                        It's shaped like a hen's egg, and it's big as a
                        turkey's, and the beautifulest bluejust splattered with big brown
                        splotches,  like me book said, precise. Bet
                        you never saw such a sight as it made on the yellow of the rotten wood
                        beside that funny leathery-faced little white baby."
                    "Tell you what, Freckles," said one of the teamsters.
                        "Have you ever heard of this Bird Woman that goes all over the
                        country with a camera and makes pictures? She made some on my brother
                        Jim's place last summer, and Jim's so wild about them he
                        quits ploughing and goes after her about every nest he finds. He helps her
                        all he can to get them, and then she gives him a picture. Jim's so
                        proud of what he has he keeps them in the Bible. He shows them to everybody
                        that comes, and brags about how he helped to take them. If you're
                        smart, you'll send for her and she'll come and make a
                        picture just like life. If you help her, she will give you one. It would be
                        uncommon pretty to keep, after your birds are gone. I dunno what they are. I
                        never see their like before. They must be something rare. Any you fellows
                        ever see a bird like that here-abouts?"
                    No one ever had.
                    "Well," said the teamster, "failing to get this
                             log lets me off till noon, and
                        I'm going to town. I go right past her place. I've a big
                        notion to stop and tell her. If she drives straight back in the swamp on the
                        west road, and turns east at this big sycamore, she can't miss
                        finding the tree, even if Freckles ain't about to show her. Jim
                        says her work is a credit to the State she lives in, and any man is a measly
                        creature that isn't willing to help her all he can. My old daddy
                        used to say that all there was to religion was doing to the other fellow
                        what you'd want him to do to you, and if I was making a living
                        taking bird pictures, seems to me I'd be mighty glad for a chance
                        to take one like that. So I'll just stop and tell her, and by
                        gummy! maybe she will give me a picture of the little white sucker for my
                        trouble."
                    Freckles touched his arm.
                    "Will she be rough with it?" he asked.
                    "Government land! No!" said the teamster.
                        "She's dead down on anybody that shoots a bird or tears up
                        a nest. Why, she's half killing herself in all kinds of places and
                        weather to teach people to love and pertect the birds. She's that
                        plum careful of them that Jim's wife says she has Jim a
                        standin' like a big fool holding an ombrelly over  them when they are young and tender until she
                        gets a focus, whatever that is. Jim says there ain't a bird on his
                        place that don't actually seem to like having her around after she
                        has wheedled them a few days, and the pictures she gets nobody would ever
                        believe that didn't stand by and see them taken."
                    "Will you be sure to tell her to come?" asked Freckles.
                    Duncan slept at home that night. He heard Freckles slipping out early the
                        next morning, but he was too sleepy to wonder why, until he came to do his
                        morning chores. When he found that none of his stock was at all thirsty, and
                        saw the water-trough brimming, he knew that the boy was trying to make up to
                        him for the loss of the big trough that he had been so anxious to have.
                    "Bless his fool little hot heart!" said Duncan.
                        "And him so sore it is tearing him to move for anything. Nae wonder
                        he has us all loving him!"
                    But Freckles was moving briskly, and his heart was so happy that he forgot
                        all about the bruises. He hurried about the trail, and on his way down the
                        east side he slipped in to see the chickens. The mother-bird was on the
                        nest. He was afraid  the other egg might just
                        be hatching, so he did not venture to disturb her. He made the round and
                        reached his study early. He had his lunch along, and did not need to start
                        on the second trip until the middle of the afternoon. He would have long
                        hours to work on his flower-bed, improve his study, and learn about his
                        chickens. Lovingly he set his room to rights and watered the flowers and
                        carpet. He had carefully chosen for his resting-place the coolest spot on
                        the west side, where there was almost always a breeze; but to-day the heat
                        was so intense that it penetrated even there.
                    "I'm mighty glad there's nothing calling me
                        inside!" he said. "There's no bit of air
                        stirring, and it will just be steaming. Oh, but it's luck Duncan
                        found the nest before it got so unbearing hot! I might have missed it
                        altogether. Wouldn't it have been a shame to lose that sight? The
                        cunning little divil! When he gets to toddling down that log to meet me,
                        won't he be a circus? Wonder if he'll be as graceful a
                        performer afoot as his father and mother?"
                    The heat became more insistent. Noon came, and Freckles ate his dinner and
                        settled for an hour or two on a bench with a book.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    WHEREIN AN ANGEL
                            MATERIALISES AND A MAN WORSHIPS
                    
                    PERHAPS there was a breath of sound, Freckles could never
                        afterward remember, but for some reason he lifted his head just as the
                        bushes parted and the face of an angel looked through. Saints, nymphs, and
                        fairies had floated down his cathedral aisle for him many times, with forms
                        and voices of exquisite beauty.
                    Parting the wild roses by the entrance was beauty of which Freckles had never
                        dreamed. Was it real or would it vanish as the other dreams had done? He
                        dropped his book and, rising to his feet, took a step nearer, gazing
                        intently. This was real flesh and blood. And it was in every way kin of the
                        Limberlost, for no bird of its branches swung with easier grace than this
                        dainty young thing rocked on the bit of morass on which she stood. A sapling
                        beside her was  not straighter nor rounder
                        than her slender form. Her soft, waving hair clung about her face with the
                        heat, and curled over her shoulders. It was all of one piece with the gold
                        of the sun which filtered through the branches. Her eyes were just the
                        deepest blue of the iris, her lips the reddest red of the foxfire, and her
                        cheeks exactly of the same satin as the wild rose-petals caressing them. She
                        was smiling on Freckles in perfect confidence, and she cried, " Oh,
                        I'm so delighted that I've found you!"
                    The wildly leaping heart of Freckles burst from his body and fell in the
                        black swamp-muck at her feet with such a thud that he did not understand how
                        she could avoid hearing it. He really felt that if she looked down she would
                        see it.
                    'An'an' was you looking for me?" he
                        quavered, incredulous.
                    "I hoped I might find you," said the angel. You see, I
                        didn't do as I was told, and I'm lost. The Bird Woman said
                        I should stay in the carriage until she came back. She's been gone
                        hours. It's a perfect Turkish bath in there, and I'm all
                        lumpy with mosquito-bites. Just when I thought that I couldn't bear
                        it another minute,  along comes the biggest
                        Papilio Ajax you ever saw. I knew how pleased she'd be, so I ran
                        after it. It flew so slow and so low that I thought a dozen times I had it.
                        Then all at once it went out of sight over the trees, and I
                        couldn't find my way back to save me. I think I've walked
                        over an hour. I have been mired to my knees. A thorn raked my arm until it
                        is bleeding, and I'm so tired and warm."
                    She parted the bushes still further. Freckles saw that her little blue cotton
                        frock clung to her, limp with perspiration. It was torn across the breast.
                        One sleeve hung open from shoulder to elbow. A thorn had raked her arm until
                        it was covered with blood, and the gnats and mosquitoes were clustering
                        about it. Her feet were in lace hose and low shoes.
                    Freckles gasped. In the Limberlost in low shoes! He caught an armful of moss
                        from his carpet and buried it in the ooze in front of her for a footing.
                    "Get out here where I can see where you are stepping. Quick, for the
                        life of you!" he ordered.
                    She smiled on him indulgently.
                    "Why?" she inquired.
                    
                    "Did anybody let you come here and not be telling you of the
                        snakes?" urged Freckles.
                    "We met Mr. McLean on the corduroy, and he did say something about
                        snakes, I believe. The Bird Woman put on leather leggins, and a nice,
                        parboiled time she must be having! Worst dose I ever had, and I'd
                        nothing to do but swelter."
                    "Will you be coming out of there?" groaned Freckles.
                    She laughed as if it were a fine joke.
                    "Maybe if I'd be telling you I killed a rattler,, curled up
                        on that same place you're standing, as long as me body and the
                        thickness of me arm, you'd be moving where I can see your
                        footing," he urged insistently.
                    "What a perfectly delightful little brogue you speak," she
                        said. "My father is Irish, and half ought to be enough to entitle
                        me to do that much. 'Maybeif I'dbe telling
                        you,'" she imitated, rounding and accenting each word
                        carefully.
                    Freckles was beginning to feel a wildness in his head. He had derided Wessner
                        to a finish at that same hour yesterday. Now his own eyes were filling with
                        tears.
                    
                    "If you was understanding the danger!" he continued,
                        desperately.
                    "Oh, I don't think there is much!"
                    She tilted on the morass.
                    "If you killed one snake here, it's probably all there is
                        near; and anyway, the Bird Woman says a rattlesnake is a gentleman and
                        always gives warning before he strikes. I don't hear any rattling.
                        Do you?"
                    "Would you be knowing it if you did?" asked Freckles,
                        almost impatiently.
                    How the laugh of the young thing rippled!
                    "'Would I be knowing it,'" she mocked.
                        "Well, you should see the swamps of Michigan where they dump
                        rattlers out of the marl-dredges three and four at a time!"
                    Freckles stood astounded. She did know. She was not in the least afraid. She
                        was depending on a rattlesnake to live up to his share of the contract and
                        rattle in time for her to move. The one characteristic an Irishman admires
                        in a woman, above all others, is courage. Freckles worshipped anew. He
                        changed his tactics.
                    "I'd be pleased to be receiving you at me front
                        door," he said, "but as you have arrived at the back, will
                        you come in and be seated?"
                    
                    He waved toward a bench.
                    The angel came instantly.
                    "Oh, how lovely and cool!" she cried.
                    As she moved across his room, Freckles had hard work to keep from falling on
                        his knees; for they were very weak, and he was hard driven by an impulse to
                        worship.
                    "Did you arrange this?" she asked.
                    "Yis," said Freckles, simply.
                    "Some one must come with a big canvas and copy each side of
                        it," she said. "I never saw anything so beautiful! How I
                        wish I might stay here with you! I will, some day, if you will let me; but
                        now, if you can spare the time, will you help me look for the carriage? If
                        the Bird Woman comes back and finds me gone, she will be almost
                        distracted."
                    "Did you come in on the west road?" asked Freckles.
                    "I think so," she said. "The man who told the Bird
                        Woman, said that was the only place the wires were down. We drove away in,
                        and it was dreadfulover stumps and logs, and in to the hubs. I suppose you
                        know, though. I should have stayed in the carriage, but I was so tired.  I never dreamed of getting lost. I suspect I
                        will get scolded finely. I go with the Bird Woman half the time during the
                        summer vacations. My father says I learn a lot more than I do at school, and
                        get it straight. I never came within a smell of getting lost before. I
                        thought, at first, it was going to be horrid; but since I've found
                        you, maybe it will be good fun after all."
                    Freckles was amazed to hear himself excusing. "It was so hot in
                        there. You couldn't be expected to bear it for hours and not be
                        moving. I can take you back around the trail almost to where you were. Then
                        you can get up in the carriage, and I will go find the Bird Woman."
                    "You'll get killed if you do! When she stays this long, it
                        means that she has a focus on something. You see, when she gets a focus, and
                        lies in the weeds and water for hours, and the sun bakes her, and things
                        crawl over her, and then some one comes along and scares her bird away just
                        as she has it coaxed upwhy, she kills them. If I melt, you
                        won't go after her. She's probably blistered and half
                        eaten up; but she will never quit until she is satisfied."
                    
                    "Then it will be safer to be taking care of you," suggested
                        Freckles.
                    "Now you're talking sense!" said the angel.
                    "May I try to help your arm?" he asked.
                    "Have you any idea how it hurts?" she parried.
                    "A little," said Freckles.
                    "Well, Mr. McLean said we'd probably find his son
                        here"
                    "His son!" cried Freckles.
                    "That's what he said. And that you would do anything you
                        could for us; and that we could trust you with our lives. But I would have
                        trusted you anyway, if I hadn't known a thing about you. Say, your
                        father is rampaging proud of you, isn't he?"
                    "I don't know," answered the dazed Freckles.
                    "Well, call on me if you want reliable information. He's so
                        proud of you he is all swelled up like the toad in sop's fables. If
                        you have ever had an arm hurt like this, and can do anything, why, for pity
                        sake, do it!"
                    She turned back her sleeve, holding out to Freckles an arm of palest cameo,
                        shaped so exquisitely that no sculptor could have chiselled it.
                    Freckles unlocked his case, and taking out some  cotton cloth, he tore it in strips. Then he brought a bucket of the
                        cleanest water that he could find. She yielded herself to his touch like a
                        baby, and he bathed away the blood and bandaged the ugly, ragged wound. He
                        finished his surgery by lapping the torn sleeve over the cloth and binding
                        it down with a piece of twine, with the angel's help about the
                        knots.
                    Freckles worked with trembling fingers and a face tense with earnestness.
                    "Is it feeling any better?" he asked.
                    Oh, it's well now!" cried the angel. "It
                        doesn't hurt at all, any more."
                    "I'm mighty glad," said Freckles. "But
                        you had best go and be having your doctor fix it right, the minute you get
                        home."
                    "Oh, bother! A little scratch like that!" jeered the angel.
                        "My blood is perfectly pure. It will heal in three days."
                    "It's cut cruel deep. It might be making a scar,"
                        faltered Freckles, his eyes on the ground.
                        "'Twould'twould be an awful pity. A doctor might
                        know something to be preventing it."
                    "Why, I never thought of that!" exclaimed the angel.
                    
                    "I noticed you didn't," said Freckles, softly.
                        "I don't know much about it, but it seems like most girls
                        would."
                    The angel thought intently, with Freckles still kneeling beside her. Suddenly
                        she gave herself an impatient little shake, lifted her glorious eyes full to
                        his, and the smile that broke over her sweet, young face was the loveliest
                        thing that Freckles had ever seen.
                    "Don't let's bother about it," she
                        proposed, with just the faintest hint of a confiding gesture toward him.
                        "It won't make a scar. Why, it just couldn't,
                        when you have dressed it so nicely."
                    The velvety touch of her warm arm was tingling in Freckles'
                        finger-tips. Dainty laces and fine, white stuffs peeped through her torn
                        dress. There were beautiful rings on her fingers. Every article about her
                        was of the finest material and in excellent taste. There was the trembling
                        Limberlost guard in his coarse clothing, with his cotton rags and his old
                        pail of swamp-water. Freckles was sufficiently accustomed to contrasts to
                        notice them, and sufficiently fine to be hurt by them always.
                    
                    He lifted his eyes to hers with a shadowy pain in them, and found them of
                        serene, unconscious purity. What she had said was straight from a kind,
                        untainted, young heart. She meant every word of it. Freckles' soul
                        went sick. He scarcely knew whether he could muster strength to get to his
                        feet.
                    "We must go and find the carriage," said the angel, rising.
                    In instant alarm for her, Freckles sprang up, grasped the cudgel, and led the
                        way, sharply watching every step. He went as near the log as he felt that he
                        dared, and with a little searching found the carriage. He cleared a path for
                        the angel, and with a sigh of relief saw her enter it safely. The heat was
                        intense. She pushed the damp hair back from her face.
                    "This is a shame!" said Freckles. "You'll
                        never be coming here again."
                    "Oh, yes, I shall!" said the angel. "The Bird
                        Woman says that these birds stay over a month in the nest and she would like
                        to make a picture every few days for seven or eight weeks,
                        perhaps."
                    Freckles barely escaped crying out for joy.
                    "Then don't you ever be torturing yourself and  your horse to be coming in here
                        again," he said. "I'll show you a way to drive
                        almost to the nest on the east trail, and then you can come around to my
                        room and stay while the Bird Woman works. It's nearly always cool
                        there, and there's comfortable seats, and water."
                    "Oh! did you have drinking-water there?" she cried.
                        " I was never so thirsty or so hungry in my life, but I thought I
                        wouldn't mention it."
                    "And I had not the wit to be seeing!" wailed Freckles.
                        "I can be getting you a good drink in no time."
                    He turned to the trail.
                    "Please wait a minute," called the Angel.
                        "What's your name? I want to think about you while you are
                        gone."
                    "Freckles lifted his face with the brown rift across it and smiled
                        quizzically.
                    "Freckles?" she guessed with a peal of laughter.
                        "And mine is"
                    "I'm knowing yours," interrupted Freckles.
                    "I don't believe you do. What is it?" asked the
                        girl.
                    "You won't be getting angry?"
                    "Not until I've had the water, at least."
                    
                    It was Freckles' turn to laugh. He whipped off his big, floppy
                        straw-hat, stood uncovered before her, and said in the sweetest of all the
                        sweet tones of his voice, "There's nothing you could be
                        but the Swamp Angel," he said.
                    The girl laughed happily.
                    Once out of her sight, Freckles ran every step of the way to the cabin. Mrs.
                        Duncan gave him a small bucket of water cool from the well. He carried it in
                        the crook of his right arm, and a basket filled with bread and butter, cold
                        meat, apple pie, and pickles, in his left hand.
                    "Pickles are kind o' cooling," said Mrs. Duncan.
                    Then Freckles ran again.
                    The Angel was on her knees, reaching for the bucket, as he came up.
                    "Be drinking slow," he cautioned her.
                    "Oh!" she cried, with a long breath of satisfaction.
                        "It's so good! You are so kind to bring it!"
                    Freckles stood blinking in the dazzling glory of her smile until he could
                        scarcely see to pass up the basket.
                    "Mercy!" she exclaimed. "I think I had best be
                        naming you 'the Angel.' My Guardian Angel."
                    
                    "Yis," said Freckles. " I look the character every
                        daybut to-day most emphatic!"
                    "Angels don't go by looks," laughed the girl.
                        "Your father told us you had been scrapping. But he told us why.
                        I'd gladly wear all your cuts and bruises if I could do anything
                        that would make my father look as peacocky as yours did. He strutted about
                        proper. I never saw any one look prouder."
                    "Did he say he was proud of me?" marvelled Freckles.
                    "He didn't need to," answered the Angel.
                        "He was radiating pride from every pore. Now, have you brought me
                        your dinner?"
                    "I had my dinner two hours ago," answered Freckles.
                    "Honest Injun?" bantered the Angel.
                    "Honest! I brought that on purpose for you."
                    "Well, if you knew how hungry I am, you would know how thankful I
                        am, to the dot," said the Angel.
                    "Then you be eating," cried the happy Freckles.
                    The Angel sat down on a big camera, spread the lunch on the carriage-seat,
                        and divided it in halves. The daintiest parts she could select she  carefully put back into the basket. The rest
                        she ate. Again Freckles found her of the swamp, for though she was almost
                        ravenous, she managed her food as gracefully as his little yellow fellow,
                        and her every movement was easy and charming. As he watched her with
                        famished eyes, Freckles told her of his birds, flowers, and books, and never
                        realised what he was doing.
                    He led the horse out to a deep pool that he knew of, and the tortured
                        creature drank greedily, and lovingly rubbed him with its nose as he wiped
                        down its welted body with grass. Suddenly the Angel cried, "There
                        comes the Bird Woman!"
                    Freckles had intended leaving before she came, but now he was glad indeed to
                        be there, for a warmer, more worn, and worse bitten creature he had never
                        seen. She was staggering under a load of cameras and paraphernalia. Freckles
                        ran to her aid. He took all he could carry of her load, stowed it in the
                        back of the carriage and helped her in. The Angel gave her water, knelt and
                        unfastened the leggins, bathed her face, and offered the lunch.
                    Freckles brought up the horse. He was not sure of the harness, but the Angel
                        knew, and soon  they were out of the swamp.
                        Then he showed them how to reach the chicken tree from the outside,
                        indicated a cooler place for the horse, and told them how, the next time
                        they came, the Angel could find his room while she waited.
                    The Bird Woman finished her lunch, and ray back, almost too tired to speak.
                    "Were you for getting Little Chicken's picture?"
                        Freckles asked.
                    "Fine!" she answered. "He posed splendidly. But I
                        couldn't do anything with his mother. She will take
                        coaxing."
                    "The Lord be praised!" muttered Freckles under his breath.
                    The Bird Woman began to feel better.
                    "Why do you call the baby vulture 'Little
                        Chicken'?" she asked, leaning toward Freckles in an
                        interested fashion.
                    "'Twas Duncan began it," said Freckles.
                        "You see, through the fierce cold of winter the birds of the swamp
                        were almost starving. It is mighty lonely here, and they were all the
                        company I was having. I got to carrying scraps and grain down to them.
                        Duncan was that ginerous he was giving me of his wheat and corn from his
                        chickens'  reed, and he called the
                        birds me swamp chickens. Then when these big black fellows came, Mr. McLean
                        said they were our nearest kind to some in the old world that they called
                        'Pharaoh's Chickens,' and he called mine
                        Freckles' chickens."
                    "Good enough!" cried the Bird Woman, her splotched purple
                        face lighting with interest. "You must shoot something for them
                        occasionally, and I'll bring more food when I come. If you will
                        help me keep them until I get my series, I'll give you a copy of
                        each study I make, mounted in a book."
                    Freckles drew a deep breath and held hard.
                    "I'll be doing me very best," he promised, and
                        from the deeps he meant it.
                    "I wonder if that other egg is going to hatch?" mused the
                        Bird Woman. "I am afraid not. It should have been out to-day.
                        Isn't it a beauty? I never saw either an egg or the young before.
                        They are rare this far north."
                    "So Mr. McLean said," answered Freckles.
                    Before they drove away, the Bird Woman thanked him for his kindness to the
                        Angel and herself. She gave him her hand at parting, and Freckles joyfully
                        realised that here was going to  be another
                        person for him to love. Freckles couldn't remember, after they had
                        driven away, that they had even noticed his missing hand, and for the first
                        time in his life he had forgotten it.
                    When the Bird Woman and the Angel were well on the home road, the Angel told
                        of the little corner of paradise into which she had strayed and of her new
                        name. The Bird Woman looked into the Angel's face and guessed its
                        appropriateness.
                    "Did you know Mr. McLean had a son?" asked the Angel.
                        "Isn't the little accent he has, and the way he twists a
                        sentence, too dear? And isn't it too old-fashioned and funny to
                        hear him call his father mister?"
                    "It sounds too good to be true," said the Bird Woman,
                        answering the last question first. " I am so tired with these
                        present-day young men that patronisingly call their fathers
                        'Dad,' 'Governor,' 'Old
                        Man,' and 'Old Chap,' that the boy's
                        attitude of respect and deference struck me as being as fine as silk. There
                        must be something rare about that young man."
                    But she did not find it necessary to tell the Angel that for several years
                        she had known the  man who so proudly
                        proclaimed himself Freckles' father to be a bachelor and a
                        Scotchman. The Bird Woman had a fine way of attending strictly to her own
                        business.
                    Freckles turned back to the trail, but he stopped at every wild brier and
                        looked at the pink satin of the petals. She was not of his world, and better
                        than any other: he knew it, but she might be his Angel, and he was dreaming
                        of naught but blind, silent worship. He finished the happiest day of his
                        life, and that night he went back to the swamp as if drawn by a magnet. That
                        Wessner would try for his revenge, he knew. That he would be abetted by
                        Black Jack was almost certain, but fear had fled the happy heart of
                        Freckles. He had kept his trust. He had won the respect of the Boss. Nobody
                        could ever wipe from his heart the flood of holy adoration that had welled
                        up with the coming of his Angel. He would do his best, and trust for
                        strength to meet the dark day of reckoning that he knew would come sooner or
                        later. He swung round the trail, briskly tapping the wire, and singing in a
                        voice that could scarcely have been surpassed for sweetness.
                    
                    At the edge of the clearing he came out into the bright moonlight, and there
                        sat McLean on his mare. Freckles hurried up to him.
                    "Is there trouble?" he asked anxiously.
                    "That's what I wanted to ask you," said the Boss.
                        "I stopped at the cabin to see you a minute, before I turned in,
                        and they said you had come down here. You must not do it, Freckles. The
                        swamp is none too healthy at any time, and at night it is rank
                        poison."
                    Freckles stood combing his fingers through Nellie's mane, and the
                        dainty creature was twisting her head around to his caresses. He pushed back
                        his hat and looked up into McLean's face. "It's
                        come to the 'sleep with one eye open,' sir. I'm
                        not looking for anything to be happening for a week or two, but
                        it's bound to come, and soon. If I'm to keep me trust as
                        I've promised you and meself, I've to live here mostly
                        until the gang comes. You must be knowing that, sir."
                    "I'm afraid it's true, Freckles," said
                        McLean. "And I've decided to double the guard until we get
                        here. It will only be a few weeks, now; and I'm so anxious for you
                        that you must not be left alone further. If anything should happen to you,
                             Freckles, it would spoil one of the very
                        dearest plans of my life."
                    Freckles heard with dismay the proposition to place a second guard.
                    "Oh! no, no, Mr. McLean," he cried. "Not for the
                        world! I wouldn't be having a stranger around, scaring me birds and
                        tramping up me study, and disturbing all me ways, for any money! I am all
                        the guard you need! I will be faithful! I will turn over the lease with no
                        tree missingon me life, I will! Oh, don't be sending another man to
                        set them saying I turned coward and asked for help. It will just kill the
                        honour of me heart if you do it. The only thing I want is another gun. If it
                        railly comes to trouble, six cartridges ain't many, and you know I
                        am slow like about reloading."
                    McLean reached into his hip pocket and handed a shining big revolver down to
                        Freckles, who slipped it beside the one already in his belt
                    Then the Boss sat brooding.
                    "Freckles," he said at last, "we never know the
                        timber of a man's soul until something cuts into him deeply and
                        brings the grain out strong. You've the making of a mighty fine
                        piece of  furniture, my boy, and you shall
                        have your own way these few weeks yet. Then, if you will go, I am going to
                        take you to the city and educate you, and you are to be my son, my ladmy own
                        son!"
                    Freckles twisted his fingers in Nellie's mane to steady himself.
                    "But why should you be doing that, sir?" he faltered.
                    McLean slid his arm down about the boy's shoulders and gathered him
                        close to him.
                    "Because I love you, Freckles," he said simply.
                    Freckles lifted a white face. "My God, sir!" he whispered.
                        "Oh, my God!"
                    McLean tightened his clasp a second longer, then he rode away down the trail.
                    Freckles lifted his hat and faced the sky. The harvest moon looked down,
                        sheeting the swamp in silver glory. The Limberlost sang her night song. The
                        swale softly rustled in the wind. Winged things of night brushed his face;
                        and still Freckles gazed upward, trying to fathom these things which had
                        come to him. There was no help from the sky. It seemed far away, cold, and
                        blue. The earth, where flowers bloomed, angels  walked, and love grew, was better. But to One, above the sky, he must
                        make acknowledgment for these miracles. His lips moved and he began talking
                        softly.
                    "Thank You for each separate good thing that has come to
                        me," he said, "and above all for the falling of the
                        feather. For if it didn't really fall from an angel, its falling
                        brought an Angel, and if it's in the great heart of You to exercise
                        Yourself any further about me; oh, do please to be taking good care of
                        her!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    WHEREIN A FIGHT OCCURS AND WOMEN SHOOT STRAIGHT
                    
                    THE next morning Freckles circled the Limberlost
                        inexpressibly happy. He kept snatches of song ringing, as well as the wires.
                        His heart was so full that tears of joy glistened in his eyes. He rigorously
                        strove to divide his thoughts evenly between McLean and the Angel. He
                        realised to the fullest the debt he already owed the Boss and the magnitude
                        of last night's declaration and promises. He was hourly planning to
                        deliver over his trust and then enter with equal zeal on whatever task his
                        beloved Boss saw fit to set him next. He wanted to be ready to meet every
                        device that Wessner and Black Jack could think of to outwit him. He
                        recognised their double leverage, for if they succeeded in felling even one
                        tree McLean became liable for his wager.
                    Freckles' brow wrinkled in his effort to think  deeply and strongly, but from every swaying wild rose the
                        Angel beckoned to him. When he crossed Sleepy Snake Creek and the goldfinch,
                        waiting as ever, challenged, "See me?"
                        Freckles saw the dainty, swaying grace of the Angel instead. What is a man
                        to do with an Angel who dismembers herself and scatters over a whole swamp,
                        thrusting a vivid reminder upon him at every turn?
                    Freckles counted the days. This first day he could do little but test his
                        wires, sing broken snatches, and dream; but before the week would bring her
                        again he could do many things. He would carry all his books to the swamp to
                        show to her. He would complete his flower-bed, arrange every detail he had
                        planned for his room, and make of it a bower fairies would envy. He must
                        devise a way to keep water cool. He would ask Mrs. Duncan for a double lunch
                        and a specially nice one the day of her next coming, so that, if the Bird
                        Woman should again be late, the Angel might not suffer from thirst and
                        hunger. He would tell her to bring heavy leather leggins, so that he might
                        take her on a trip around the trail. She should make friends with all of his
                        chickens and see their nests.
                    
                    On the line he talked of her incessantly.
                    "You needn't be thinking," he said to the
                        gold-finch, "that because I'm coming down this line alone
                        day after day, it's always to be so. Some of these days
                        you'll be swinging on this wire, and you'll see me coming,
                        and you'll swing, skip, and flirt yourself around, and chip up
                        right spunky, 'See me?' I'll be
                        saying 'See you? Oh, Lord! See her!' You'll look,
                        and there she'll stand. The sunshine won't look gold any
                        more, nor the roses pink, nor the sky blue, because she'll be the
                        pinkest, bluest, goldest thing of all. You'll be yelling yourself
                        hoarse with the jealousy of her. The saw-bird will stretch his neck out of
                        joint, and she'll turn the heads of all the flowers. Wherever she
                        goes, I can go back afterward and see the things she's seen, walk
                        the path she's walked, hear the grasses whispering over all the
                        things she's said; and if there's a place too swampy for
                        her bits of feet; Holy Mother! maybemaybe she'd be putting the
                        beautiful arms of her about me neck and letting me carry her over!"
                    Freckles shivered as with a chill. He sent the cudgel whirling skyward,
                        dextrously caught it, and set it spinning.
                    
                    "You damned presumptuous fool!" he cried. The thing for you
                        to be thinking of would be to stretch out in the muck for the feet of her to
                        be walking over, and then you could hold yourself holy to be even of that
                        service to her.
                    "Maybe she'll be wanting the cup me blue-and-brown chickens
                        raised their babies in. Perhaps she'd like to stop at the pool and
                        see me bullfrog that had the goodness to take on human speech to show me the
                        way out of me trouble. If there's any feathers falling that day,
                        why, it's from the wings of me chickensit's sure to be,
                        for the only Angel outside the gates will be walking this timberline, and
                        every step of the way I'll be holding me breath and praying that
                        she don't unfold wings and sail off before the hungry eyes of
                        me."
                    So Freckles dreamed his dreams, made his plans, and watched his line. He
                        counted not only the days, but the hours of each day. As he told them off,
                        each one bringing her nearer, he grew happier in the joy of her coming. He
                        managed every day to leave some sort of offering at the great elm log for
                        his black chickens. He slipped under the line at every passing, and went  over to make sure that nothing was molesting
                        them. Though it was a long trip, he paid them several extra visits every day
                        for fear a snake, hawk, or fox might have found the baby. For now his
                        chickens not only represented all his former interest in them, but they
                        furnished the motive that was bringing his Angel.
                    Possibly he could find other subjects that the Bird Woman wanted. The
                        teamster had said that his brother went after her every time that he found a
                        nest. Well, he had never counted the nests that he knew of, and it might be
                        that among all the birds of the swamp there were some that would be rare to
                        her.
                    The feathered folk of the Limberlost were practically undisturbed save by
                        their natural enemies. It was very probable that among his chickens others
                        as odd as the big black ones could be found. If she wanted pictures of
                        half-grown birds, he could pick up fifty in one morning's trip
                        around the line, for he had fed, handled, and made friends with them ever
                        since their eyes opened.
                    He had gathered bugs and worms all spring as he noticed them on the grass and
                        bushes, and dropped  them into the first
                        little open mouth he had found. The babies had gladly accepted this queer
                        tri-parent addition to their natural providers.
                    When the week was up, Freckles had his room crisp and glowing with fresh
                        living things that rivalled every tint of the rainbow. He carried bark and
                        filled up all the muckiest places of the trail.
                    It was middle July. The heat of the last few days had dried up the water
                        about and through the Limberlost, so that it was possible to cross it on
                        foot in almost any directionif one had any idea of direction and did not
                        become completely lost in its rank tangle of vegetation and bushes. The
                        brighter-hued flowers were opening. The trumpet-creepers were flaunting
                        their gorgeous horns of red-and-gold sweetness from the tops of lordly oak
                        and elm, and down below whole pools were pink-sheeted in mallow bloom.
                    The heat was doing one other thing that was bound to make Freckles, as a good
                        Irishman, shiver. As the swale dried, its inhabitants were seeking the
                        cooler depths of the swamp. They liked neither the heat nor leaving the
                        field-mice,  moles, and young rabbits of their
                        chosen location. He saw them crossing the trail every day as the heat grew
                        intense. The rattlers were sadly forgetting their manners, for they struck
                        on no provocation whatever, and didn't even remember to rattle
                        afterward. Daily Freckles was compelled to drive big black snakes and blue
                        racers from the nests of his chickens. Often the terrified squalls of the
                        parent birds would reach him far down the line, and he would run to the
                        rescue of the babies.
                    He saw the Angel when the carriage turned from the corduroy into the
                        clearing. They stopped at the west entrance to the swamp, waiting for him to
                        precede them down the trail, as he had told them it was safest for the horse
                        that he should do so. They followed the east line to a point opposite the
                        big chickens' tree, and Freckles carried in the cameras and showed
                        the Bird Woman a path he had cleared to the log. He explained to her the
                        effect the heat was having on the snakes, and, creeping back to Little
                        Chicken, brought him out to the light. As she worked at setting up her
                        camera, he told her of the birds of the line, and she stared at him.
                        wide-eyed and incredulous.
                    
                    They arranged that Freckles should drive the carriage into the east entrance
                        in the shade and then take the horse around toward the north to a better
                        place he knew. Then he was to entertain the Angel at his study or on the
                        line until the Bird Woman finished her work and came to them.
                    "This will take only a little time," she said. "I
                        know where to set the camera now, and Little Chicken is big enough to be
                        good and too little to run away or act very ugly, so I will soon be coming
                        to see about those nests. I have ten plates along, and I surely
                        won't use more than two on him; so perhaps I can get some nests or
                        young birds this morning."
                    Freckles trod on air, for his dream had come true so soon. He was going down
                        the timberline and the Angel was following him. He asked to be excused for
                        going first, because he wanted to be sure the trail was safe for her. She
                        laughed at his fears, telling him that it was the polite thing for him to
                        do, anyway.
                    "Oh!" said Freckles, "so you was after knowing
                        that? Well, I didn't s'pose you did, and I was afraid
                        you'd think me wanting in respect to be preceding you!"
                    
                    The astonished Angel looked at him, caught the irrepressible gleam of Irish
                        fun in his eyes, and they stood and laughed together.
                    Freckles did not realise how he was talking that morning. He showed her many
                        of the beautiful nests and eggs of the line. She could identify a number of
                        them, but of some she was ignorant, so they made notes of the number and
                        colour of the eggs, material and construction of nest, colour, size, and
                        shape of the birds, and went on to look them up in the book.
                    At his room, when Freckles had lifted the overhanging bushes and stepped back
                        for her to enter, his heart was all out of time and place. The study was
                        vastly more beautiful than a week before. The Angel drew a deep breath and
                        stood staring, first at one side then at another, then far off down the
                        cathedral aisle. "It's just fairyland!" she
                        cried, ecstatically. Then she turned and stared at Freckles exactly as she
                        had at his handiwork.
                    "What are you planning to be?" she asked, slowly.
                    "Whatever Mr. McLean wants me to," he replied.
                    "What do you do most?" she asked.
                    
                    "Watch me lines."
                    "I don't mean work!"
                    "Oh! In me spare time I keep me room and study in me
                        books."
                    "Do you work on the room or the books most?"
                    "On the room just what it takes to keep it up, and the rest of the
                        time on me books."
                    The Angel eyed him sharply. "Well, maybe you are going to be a great
                        scholar," she said, "but you don't look it. Your
                        face isn't right for that, but it's got something big in
                        itsomething just great. I must find out what it is and then you must go to
                        work on it. Your father is expecting you to do something. You can tell by
                        the way he talks. You ought to begin right away. You've wasted too
                        much time already."
                    Poor Freckles hung his head. He had never wasted an hour in his life. There
                        had never been one that was his to waste.
                    The Angel, studying him intently, read his thought in his face. "Oh,
                        I don't mean that!" she cried, with the frank dismay of
                        sixteen. "Of course, you're not lazy! Nobody would ever
                        think that from your looks. It's this I mean: there is something
                        fine, strong, and full of power  in your face.
                        There is something you are to do in this world, and no matter how hard you
                        work at all these other things, nor how successfully you do them, it is all
                        wasted until you find the one thing that you can do best. If you
                        hadn't a thing in the world to do, and could go anywhere you please
                        and do anything you want, what would you do?" persisted the Angel.
                    "I'd go to Chicago and sing in the first Episcopal
                        choir," answered Freckles promptly.
                    The Angel dropped back on a seatthe hat she had taken off and held in her
                        fingers rolled to her feet. "There!" she exclaimed
                        vehemently. "You can see what I'm going to be. Nothing!
                        Absolutely nothing! You can sing? Of course you can sing! It's
                        written all over you."
                    "Anybody with half wit could have seen he could sing, without having
                        to be told," she thought. "It's in the
                        slenderness of his fingers and his quick, nervous touch. It is in the
                        brightness of his hair, the fire of his eyes, the breadth of his chest, the
                        muscles of his throat and neck; and, above all, it's in every tone
                        of his voice, for even as he speaks it's the sweetest sound I ever
                        heard from the throat of a mortal."
                    
                    "Will you do something for me?" she asked.
                    "I'll do anything in the world you want me to,"
                        said Freckles, largely; "and if I can't do what you want,
                        I'll go to work at once and I'll try till I can."
                    "Good! That's business!" said the Angel.
                        "You go over there and stand before that bank and sing something.
                        Just anything you think of first."
                    Freckles faced the Angel from his banked wall of brown, blue, and crimson,
                        with its background of solid green, and lifting his face to the sky, he sang
                        the first thing that came into his mind. It was a children's song
                        that he had led for the little folks at the Home many times, recalled to his
                        mind by the Angel's exclamation:
                    
                        "To fairy-land we go,
                        With a song of joy, heigh-o;
                        In dreams we'll stand upon that shore
                        And all the realm behold;
                        We'll see the sights so grand
                        That belong to fairy-land,
                        Its mysteries we will explore,
                        Its beauties will unfold.
                        Oh, tra, la, la, oh, ha, ha, ha! We're happy now as we can be,
                        Our welcome song we will prolong, and greet you with our melody.
                        Oh, fairy-land, sweet fairy-land, we love to sing"
                    
                    
                    Nothing could have given the intense sweetness and rollicking quality of
                        Freckles' voice better scope. He forgot everything but pride in his
                        work with the sound of his voice. He was going full tilt on the chorus, and
                        the Angel was shivering in ecstasy, when clip! clip! came the sharply
                        beating feet of a swiftly ridden horse down the trail from the north. They
                        both sprang toward the entrance.
                    "Freckles! Freckles!" called the voice of the Bird Woman.
                    They were at the trail on the instant.
                    "Both those revolvers loaded?" she asked.
                    "Yes," said Freckles.
                    "Is there a way you can cut across the swamp and get to the chicken
                        tree in a few minutes, and with little noise?"
                    "Yes."
                    "Then go flying," said the Bird Woman. "Give the
                        Angel a lift up behind me, and we will ride the horse back to where you left
                        him and wait for you. I finished Little Chicken in no time and put him back.
                        His mother came so close, I felt sure she would enter the log. The light was
                        fine, so I set and focussed the camera and 
                        covered it with branches, attached the long hose, and went away off over a
                        hundred feet and hid in some bushes to wait. A short, thick man and a tall,
                        dark one passed me so closely I could almost have reached out and touched
                        them. They carried a big saw on their shoulders. They said they could work
                        until about noon, and then they must lay off until you passed and then try
                        to load and get out at night. They went onnot entirely out of sightand began
                        cutting a tree. Mr. McLean told me the other day what was likely to happen
                        here, and if they get that tree down he loses his wager on you. Keep to the
                        east and north and hustle. We'll meet you at the carriage. I am
                        always armed. Give Babe one of your revolvers, and you keep the other. We
                        will separate and creep up on them from different sides and give them a
                        fusillade that will send them flying. You hurry, now!"
                    She gathered up the reins and started briskly down the trail. The Angel,
                        hatless and with sparkling eyes, was clinging about her waist.
                    Freckles wheeled and ran. He worked his way with great care, dodging limbs
                        and bushes with noiseless tread, and cutting as close to where he  thought the men were as he felt that he dared
                        if he were to remain unseen. As he ran he tried to think. It was Wessner,
                        burning for his revenge, aided by the bully of the locality, that he was
                        going to meet. He was accustomed to that thought, but not to the
                        complication of having two women on his hands who would undoubtedly have to
                        be taken care of in spite of the Bird Woman's offer to help him.
                        His heart was jarring as it never before had with running. He must follow
                        the Bird Woman's plan and meet them at the carriage, but if they
                        really did mean to try to help him, he must not allow it. Let the Angel try
                        to handle a revolver in his defence? Never! Not for all the trees in the
                        Limberlost! She might shoot herself. She might forget to watch sharply and
                        run across a snake that was not particularly well-behaved that morning.
                        Freckles permitted himself a grim smile as he went speeding on.
                    When he reached the carriage, the Bird Woman and the Angel had the horse
                        hitched to it, the outfit packed, and were calmly waiting. The Bird Woman
                        held her revolver in her hand. She wore dark clothing. They had pinned a big
                        focussing cloth over the front of the Angel's light dress.
                    
                    "Give Babe one of your revolvers, quick!" said the Bird
                        Woman. "We will all creep up until we are in fair range. The
                        underbrush is so thick and they are so hard at work that they will never
                        notice us, if we don't make a noise. You fire first, then I will
                        pop in from my direction, and then you, Baby, and shoot quite high, or else
                        very low. We mustn't really hit them. We'll go close
                        enough to the cowards to make it interesting, and keep it up until we have
                        them going good."
                    Freckles protested.
                    The Bird Woman reached over, and, taking the smaller revolver from his belt,
                        handed it to the Angel. "Keep your nerve steady, dear; watch where
                        you step, and shoot high," she said. "Go straight at them
                        from where you are. Wait until you hear Freckles' first shot, then
                        follow me as closely as you can, to let them know that we outnumber them. If
                        you want to save McLean's wager on you, now you go!" she
                        commanded Freckles, who, with an agonised glance at the Angel, ran toward
                        the east.
                    The Bird Woman chose the middle distance, and for a last time cautioned the
                        Angel to lie down and shoot high, as she moved away.
                    
                    Through the underbrush the Bird Woman crept, even more closely than she had
                        intended, found a clear range, and waited for Freckles' shot. There
                        was one long minute of sickening suspense. The men straightened for breath.
                        Work was fearful with a hand-saw in the heat of the swamp. As they rested,
                        the big dark fellow took a bottle from his pocket and began oiling the saw.
                    "We got to keep mighty quiet," he said, "and wait
                        to fell it until that damned guard has gone to his dinner."
                    Again they bent to their work. Freckles' revolver spat fire. Lead
                        spanged on steel. The saw-handle flew from Wessner's hand and he
                        reeled with the jar of the shock. Black Jack straightened, uttering a
                        fearful oath. The hat sailed off his head from the far northeast. The Angel
                        had not waited for the Bird Woman, and her shot could scarcely have been
                        called high. At almost the same instant the third shot whistled in from the
                        east. Black Jack sprang into the air  with a
                        yell of complete panic, for it ripped a heel from his boot. Freckles emptied
                        his second chamber, and the dirt spattered over Wessner. Shots poured in
                        thick and fast. Without even reaching for a weapon, both men broke for the
                        east road in great, leaping bounds, while leaden slugs sung and hissed about
                        them in deadly earnest.
                    Freckles was trimming his corners as closely as he dared, but if the Angel
                        did not really intend to hit, she was shaving the limit in a scandalous
                        manner.
                    When the men reached the trail, Freckles yelled at the top of his voice,
                        "Head them off on the south, boys! Fire from the south!"
                    As he had hoped, Jack and Wessner instantly plunged into the swale. A storm
                        of lead spattered after them. They crossed the swale, running low, with not
                        even one backward glance, and entered the woods beyond the corduroy.
                    Then the little party gathered at the tree.
                    "I'd better fix this saw so they can't be using it
                        if they come back," said Freckles, taking out his hatchet and
                        making saw-teeth fly.
                    "Now we have to get out of here without being  seen," said the Bird Woman to the Angel. "It
                        won't do for me to make enemies of these men, for I am liable to
                        meet them about my work any day."
                    "You can do it by driving straight north on this road,"
                        said Freckles. "I will go ahead and cut the wires for you. The
                        swale is almost dry. You will only be sinking a few inches at most. In a few
                        rods you will strike a corn-field. I will take down the fence and let you
                        into that. Follow the furrows and drive straight across it until you come to
                        the other side. Be following the fence south until you come to a road
                        through the woods east of it. Then take that road and follow east until you
                        reach the pike. You will come out on your way back to town, and two miles
                        north of anywhere they are likely to be. Don't for your lives ever
                        let it out that you did this," he earnestly cautioned,
                        "for it's black enemies you would be making."
                    Freckles snapped the wires and they drove through. The Angel leaned from the
                        carriage and held out his revolver. Freckles looked into her face and lost
                        his breath. Her eyes were black, and her face a deeper rose than usual. He
                        felt that his own was white as death.
                    
                    "Did I shoot high enough?" she asked sweetly. "I
                        really forgot about lying down."
                    Freckles winced. Did the child know how near she had gone? Surely she could
                        not! Or was it possible that she had the nerve and skill to fire like that
                        purposely?
                    "I will send the first reliable man I meet for McLean,"
                        said the Bird Woman, gathering up the lines. "If I don't
                        meet one when we reach town, we will send a messenger. If it wasn't
                        for having the gang see me, I would go myself; but I will promise you that
                        you will have help in a little over two hours. You keep well hidden. They
                        must think some of the gang is with you now. There isn't a chance
                        that they will be back, but don't run any risks. Stay under cover.
                        If they should come, it would probably be for their saw." She
                        laughed as at a fine joke.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    WHEREIN FRECKLES
                            WINS HONOUR AND FINDS A FOOTPRINT ON THE TRAIL
                    
                    ROUND-EYED, Freckles watched the Bird Woman and the Angel
                        drive away. After they were out of sight and he was safely hidden among the
                        branches of a small tree, he remembered that he had neither thanked them nor
                        said good-bye. Considering what they had been through, they would never come
                        again. His heart sank until he had palpitation in his wading-boots.
                    Stretching along the limb, he thought deeply, though he was not thinking of
                        either Black Jack or Wessner. Would the Bird Woman and the Angel come again?
                        No other women that he had ever known would. But were they like any other
                        women he had ever known? He thought of the Bird Woman's unruffled
                        face and the Angel's revolver practice, and presently he was not so
                        sure that they would not come back.
                    
                    What were the people out in the big world like? His knowledge was so very
                        limited. There had been people at the Home, who exchanged a stilted,
                        perfunctory sort of kindness for their salaries. The visitors that called on
                        receiving-days he had divided into three classes: the psalm-singing kind,
                        that came with a tear in the eye and hypocrisy in every feature of their
                        faces; the kind that came in silks and jewels, and handed out to those poor,
                        little mother-hungry souls worn toys that their children no longer cared
                        for, in exactly the same spirit in which they pitched biscuits to the
                        monkeys at the "zoo," and for the same reasonto see how
                        they would take them and be amused by what they would do; and the third
                        class, that he considered real people, who made him feel they cared that he
                        was there and would have been glad to see him elsewhere.
                    Now, here was another class, that had all they needed of the world's
                        best and were engaged in doing things that counted. They had things worth
                        while to be proud of; and they had met him as a son and brother. With them
                        he could, for the only time in his life, forget the lost hand that every day
                        tortured him with a new pang.  What sort of
                        people were they and where did they belong among the classes he knew? He had
                        to give it up, because he had never known others like them; but how he loved
                        them!
                    Out in the world where he was soon going, were the majority like them, or
                        were they of the hypocrite and bun-throwing classes? Freckles did not know,
                        but he reached the ultimate conclusion that people like the Bird Woman, the
                        Angel, McLean, and the Duncans were very rare, hence their exceeding
                        preciousness.
                    He had forgotten the excitement of the morning and the passing of time when
                        distant voices roused him, and he softly lifted his head. Nearer and nearer
                        they came, and as the heavy wagons rumbled down the east trail he could hear
                        them plainly. The gang were shouting themselves hoarse for the Limberlost
                        Guard. Freckles didn't feel that he deserved it. He would have
                        given much to be able to go out to the men and explain how it was, but only
                        to McLean could he tell his story.
                    At the sight of Freckles the men threw up their hats and cheered. McLean
                        shook hands with him warmly, but big Duncan gathered him into  his arms and hugged him like a bear and
                        choked over a few words of praise. The gang drove in and finished felling
                        the tree. McLean was angry beyond measure at this attempt on his property,
                        for in their haste to fell the tree the thieves had cut too high and wasted
                        a foot and a half of valuable timber.
                    When the last wagon rolled away, McLean sat down on the stump and Freckles
                        told the story he was aching to tell. The Boss could scarcely believe his
                        senses. Also, he was greatly disappointed.
                    "I have been almost praying all the way over, Freckles," he
                        said, "that you would have some evidence by which we could arrest
                        those fellows and get them out of our way, but this will never do. We
                        can't mix those women up in it. They have helped you save me the
                        tree and my wager as well. Going about the country as she does, the Bird
                        Woman could never be expected to testify against them."
                    "No, indeed; nor the Angel, either, sir," said Freckles.
                    "The Angel?" queried the astonished McLean.
                    The Boss listened in silence while Freckles 
                        told of the coming and christening of the Angel.
                    "I know her father well," said McLean at last,
                        "and I have often seen her. You are right; she is a beautiful young
                        girl, and she appears to be utterly free from the least particle of false
                        pride or foolishness. I do not understand why her father risks such a jewel
                        in this place."
                    "He's daring it because she is such a jewel, sir,"
                        said Freckles, eagerly. "Why, she's trusting a rattlesnake
                        to rattle before it strikes her, and, of course, she thinks she can trust
                        mankind as well. The man isn't made that wouldn't lay down
                        the life of him for her. She don't need any care. Her face and the
                        pretty ways of her are all the protection she would need in a band of
                        howling savages."
                    "Did you say she handled one of the revolvers?" asked
                        McLean.
                    "She scared all the breath out of me body," admitted
                        Freckles. "Seems that her father has taught her to shoot. The Bird
                        Woman told her distinctly to lie low and blaze away high, just to help scare
                        them. The spunky little thing followed them right out into the west road,
                        spitting lead  like hail, and clipping all
                        about the heads and heels of them; and I'm damned, sir, if I
                        believe she'd cared a rap if she'd hit. I never saw much
                        shooting, but if that wasn't the nearest to miss I ever want to
                        see! Scared the life near out of me body with the fear that she'd
                        drop one of them. As long as I'd no one to help me but a couple of
                        women, that didn't dare be mixed up in it, all I could do was to
                        let them get away."
                    "Now, will they come back?" asked McLean.
                    "Of course!" said Freckles. "They're not
                        going to be taking that. You could stake your life on it, they'll
                        be coming back. At least, Black Jack will. Wessner might not have the pluck,
                        unless he were half drunk. Then he'd be a terror. And the next
                        time" Freckles hesitated.
                    "What?"
                    "It will just be a question of who shoots first and
                        straightest."
                    "Then the only thing for me to do is to double the guard and get the
                        gang here the first minute possible. As soon as I feel that we have the
                        rarest of the stuff out below, we will come. The fact is, in many cases,
                        until it is felled it's hard to tell what a tree will prove to be.
                        It won't do to  leave you here longer
                        alone. Jack has been shooting twenty years to your one, and it stands to
                        reason that you are no match for him. Which of the gang would you like best
                        to have with you?"
                    "No one, sir," said Freckles, emphatically. "Next
                        time is where I run. I won't try to fight them alone. I'll
                        just be getting wind of them, and then make tracks for you. I'll
                        need to come like lightning, and Duncan has no extra horse, so I'm
                        thinking you'd best get me oneor, perhaps, a wheel would be better.
                        I used to do extra work for the Home doctor, and he would let me take his
                        bicycle to ride about the place. And at times the head nurse would lend me
                        his for an hour. A wheel would cost less and be faster than a horse, and
                        would take less care. I believe, if you are going to town soon, you had best
                        pick up any kind of an old one at some second-hand store, for if
                        I'm ever called to use it in a hurry there won't be the
                        handle-bars left after crossing the corduroy."
                    "Yes," said McLean; "and if you didn't
                        have a first-class wheel, you could never cross the corduroy on it at
                        all."
                    As they walked up to the cabin together, McLean insisted on another guard,
                        but Freckles  was stubbornly set on fighting
                        his battle alone. He made one mental condition. If the Bird Woman was going
                        to give up the Little Chicken series, he would yield to the second guard,
                        solely for the sake of her work and the presence of the Angel in the
                        Limberlost. He did not propose to have a second man about unless it were
                        absolutely necessary, for he had been so long alone that he loved the
                        solitude, his chickens, and flowers. The thought of having a stranger to all
                        his ways come in and meddle with his arrangements, frighten his pets, pull
                        his flowers, and interrupt him when he wanted to study, so annoyed him that
                        he was blinded to his real need of help.
                    With McLean it was a case of letting his sober, better judgment be overridden
                        by the boy he was growing so to love that he could not bear to cross him,
                        and to have Freckles keep his trust and win alone meant to him more than any
                        money he might lose.
                    The next morning McLean brought the wheel, and Freckles took it down to the
                        trail to test it. It was new, chainless, with as little as possible to catch
                        in hurried riding, and in every way the best of its kind. Freckles went
                        skimming around the  trail on it on a
                        preliminary trip before he locked it in his case and started his minute
                        examination of his line on foot. He glanced around his room as he left it,
                        and then stood staring.
                    On the moss in front of his prettiest seat lay the Angel's hat. In
                        the excitement of yesterday they had all forgotten it. He went and picked it
                        up, oh! so carefully, gazing at it with hungry eyes, but touching it only to
                        carry it over to his case, where he hung it on the shining handlebar of the
                        new wheel and locked it in among his treasures. Then he went out to the
                        trail, with a new look on his face and a strange throbbing in his heart. He
                        was not in the least afraid of anything that morning. He felt he was the
                        veriest Daniel, and all his lions seemed weak and harmless.
                    What Black Jack's next move would be he could not guess, but that
                        there would be a move of some kind was certain. The big bully was not a man
                        to give up his purpose, or to have the hat swept from his head by a bullet
                        and bear it meekly. Moreover, Wessner would cling to his revenge with a
                        Dutchman's singleness of mind.
                    Freckles tried to think connectedly, but there were too many places about the
                        trail where the  Angel's footprints
                        were still plain: She had stepped in one mucky spot and left a sharp
                        impression. The afternoon sun had baked it hard, and the horses'
                        hoofs had not obliterated any part of it, as they had in so many places.
                        Freckles stood fascinated, gazing at it. He measured it lovingly with his
                        eye. He would not have ventured a caress on her hat any more than on her
                        person, but surely this was different. Surely a footprint on a trail might
                        belong to any one that found and wanted it. He stooped under the wires and
                        entered the swamp. With a little searching, he found a big piece of thick
                        bark loose on a log and, carefully peeling it, carried it out and covered
                        the print with it so that the first rain would not wash it away.
                    When he gained his room, he tenderly laid the hat upon his book-shelf and, to
                        wear off his awkwardness, mounted his wheel and went spinning about the line
                        again. It was like flying, for the path was worn smooth with his feet and
                        baked hard with the sun almost all the way. When he came to the bark, he
                        veered well to one side and smiled down at it in passing. Suddenly he was
                        off the wheel, kneeling beside it. He took off his  hat, carefully lifted the bark and gazed lovingly at the
                        imprint.
                    "I wonder what she was going to say of m-
                        voice," he whispered. "She never got it said, but from the
                        face of her, I believe she was liking it fairly well. Perhaps she was going
                        to say that singing was the big thing I was to be doing. That's
                        what they all said at the Home. Well, if it is, I'll just shut me
                        eyes, think of me little room, the face of her watching, and the heart of
                        her beating, and I'll raise them. Damn them, if singing will do it,
                        I'll raise them from the benches!"
                    With this dire threat, Freckles knelt, as at a wayside spring, and
                        deliberately laid his lips on the footprint. Then he rose up, looking as if
                        he had been drinking at the fountain of gladness.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    WHEREIN FRECKLES
                            MEETS A MAN OF AFFAIRS AND LOSES NOTHING BY
                        THE ENCOUNTER
                    
                    "WEEL, I be drawed on!" exclaimed Mrs.
                        Duncan.
                    Freckles stood before her, holding the Angel's hat.
                    "I've been thinking this long time that ye or Duncan would
                        see that sunbonnets werena braw enough for a woman of my standing, and
                        ye're a guid laddie to bring me this beautiful hat."
                    She turned it about, examining the weave of the straw and the foliage
                        trimmings, passing her rough fingers over the satin ties delightedly. As she
                        held it up, admiring it, Freckles' astonished eyes saw a new side
                        of Sarah Duncan. She was jesting, but under the jest the fact loomed strong
                        that, though poor, overworked, and with none but God-given refinement, there
                        was something in her soul crying out after that bit of feminine  finery, and it made his heart ache for her.
                        He resolved that when he reached the city he would send her as fine a hat as
                        the Angel's, if it took fifty dollars to do it.
                    She lingeringly handed it back to him.
                    "It's unco guid of ye to think of me," she said
                        lightly, "but I maun question your taste a wee. D'ye no
                        think ye had best return this and get a woman with half her hair gray a
                        little plainer head-dress? Seems like that's far ower gay for me.
                        I'm no' saying that it's no' exactly
                        what I'd like to hae, but I mauna mak mysel' ridiculous.
                        Ye'd best give this to somebody young and pretty, say about
                        sixteen. Where did ye come by it, Freckles? If there's anything
                        been dropping lately, ye hae forgotten to mention it."
                    "Do you see anything heavenly about that hat?" queried
                        Freckles, holding it up.
                    The morning breeze waved the ribbons gracefully, binding one about
                        Freckles' sleeve and the other across his chest, where they caught
                        and clung as if magnetised.
                    "Yes," said Sarah Duncan. "It's verra
                        plain and simple, but it juist makes ye feel that it's all  of the finest stuff. It's exactly
                        what I'd call a heavenly hat."
                    "Sure," said Freckles, "for it's
                        belonging to an Angel!"
                    Then he told her about the hat and asked her what he should do with it.
                    "Take it to her, of course!" said Sarah Duncan.
                        "Like it's the only ane she has and she may need it
                        badly."
                    Freckles smiled. He had a pretty clear idea how nearly the hat came to being
                        the only one the Angel had. However, there was a thing he felt he ought and
                        wanted to do, but he was not sure.
                    "You think I should be taking it home?" he said.
                    "Of course ye must," said Mrs. Duncan. "And
                        without another hour's delay. It's been here two days noo,
                        and she may want it and be too busy or afraid to come."
                    "But how can I take it?" asked Freckles.
                    "Gang spinning on your wheel. Ye can do it easy in an
                        hour."
                    "But in that hour, what if"
                    "Nonsense!" broke in Sarah Duncan. "Ye've
                             watched that timberline until
                        ye're grown fast to it, lad. Give me your boots and club and
                        I'll gae walk the south end and watch doon the east and west sides
                        until ye get back."
                    "Mrs. Duncan! You never would be doing it," cried Freckles.
                    "Why not?" inquired she.
                    "But you know you're mortal afraid of snakes and a lot of
                        other things in the swamp."
                    "I am afraid of snakes," said Mrs. Duncan, "but
                        likely they've gone into the swamp this hot weather. I'll
                        juist stay on the trail and watch, and ye might hurry the least bit. The
                        day's so bright it feels like storm. I can put the bairns on the
                        woodpile to play until I get back. Ye gang awa and take the blessed little
                        angel her beautiful hat."
                    "Are you sure it will be all right?" urged Freckles.
                        "Do you think if Mr. McLean came he would care?"
                    "Na," said Mrs. Duncan; "I dinna. If ye and me
                        agree that a thing ought to be done, and I watch in your place, why,
                        it's bound to be all right with McLean. Let me pin the hat in a
                        paper, a-- ye jump on your wheel and gang  flying. Ought ye put on your Sabbath-day
                        clothes?"
                    Freckles shook his head. He knew what he had to do, but there was no use in
                        taking time to try to explain it to Mrs. Duncan while he was so hurried. He
                        exchanged his wading-boots for shoes, gave her his club, and went spinning
                        toward town. He knew very well where the Angel lived. He had passed her home
                        many times, and he passed it again without even taking his eyes from the
                        street, steering straight for her father's place of business.
                    Carrying the hat, Freckles passed a long line of clerks, and at the door of
                        the private office asked to see the proprietor. When he had waited a moment,
                        a tall, spare, keen-eyed man faced him, and in brisk, nervous tones asked,
                        "How can I serve you, sir?"
                    Freckles handed him the package and answered, "By delivering to your
                        daughter this hat, which she was after leaving at me place the other day,
                        when she went off in a hurry. And by saying to her and the Bird Woman that
                        I'm more thankful than I'll be having words to express for
                        the brave thing they was  doing for me.
                        I'm McLean's Limberlost guard, sir."
                    "Why don't you take it yourself?" questioned the
                        Man of Affairs.
                    Freckles' clear gray eyes met those of the Angel's father
                        squarely, and he said, "If you were in my place, would you take it
                        to her yourself?"
                    "No, I would not," said that gentleman quickly.
                    "Then why ask why I did not?" came Freckles'
                        lamb-like query.
                    "Bless me!" said the Angel's father. He stared at
                        the package, then at the lifted chin of the boy, and then at the package
                        again, and muttered, "Excuse me!"
                    Freckles bowed.
                    "It would be favouring me greatly if you would deliver the hat and
                        the message. Good-morning, sir," and he turned away.
                    "One minute," said the Angel's father.
                        "Suppose I give you permission to return this hat in person and
                        make your own acknowledgments."
                    Freckles stood one moment thinking intently, and then he lifted those eyes of
                        unswerving truth and asked: "Why should you, sir? You are kind,
                        indade, to mention it, and it's thanking you  I am for your good intintions, but my wanting to go or your
                        being willing to have me ain't proving that your daughter would be
                        wanting me or care to bother with me."
                    The Angel's father looked keenly into the face of this extraordinary
                        young man, and he found it to his liking.
                    "There 's one other thing I meant to say," said
                        Freckles. "Every day I see something, and at times a lot of things,
                        that I think the Bird Woman would be wanting pictures of badly, if she knew.
                        You might be speaking of it to her, and if she'd want me to, I can
                        send her word when I find things she wouldn't likely get
                        elsewhere."
                    "If that's the case," said the Angel's
                        father, "and you feel under obligations for her assistance the
                        other day, you can discharge them in that way. She is spending all her time
                        in the fields and woods searching for subjects. If you run across things,
                        perhaps rarer than she may find, about your work, it would save her the time
                        she spends searching for subjects, and she could work in security under your
                        protection. By all means let her know if you find subjects you think she
                        could use, and we will do anything we can for you,  if you will give her what help you can and see that she is as
                        safe as possible."
                    "It's hungry for human beings I get," said
                        Freckles, "and it's like Heaven to me to have them come.
                        Of course, I'll be telling or sending her word every time me work
                        can spare me. Anything I can do it would make me uncommon happy,
                        but"again truth had to be told, because it was Freckles who was
                        speaking"when it comes to protecting them, I'd risk me
                        life, to be sure, but even that mightn't do any good in some cases.
                        There's a good many dangers to be reckoned with in the swamp, sir,
                        that calls for every person to look sharp. If there wasn't really
                        thieving to guard against, why, McLean wouldn't need be paying out
                        good money for a guard. I'd love them to be coming, and
                        I'll do all I can, but you must be told that there's
                        danger of them running into timber-thieves again any day, sir."
                    "Yes," said the Angel's father, "and I
                        suppose there's danger of the earth opening up and swallowing the
                        town any day, but I'm damned if I quit business for fear it will,
                        and the Bird Woman won't either. Everybody knows her and her work,
                        and there is no danger in the world of any 
                        one in any way molesting her, even if he were stealing a few of
                        McLean's gold-plated trees. She's as safe in the
                        Limberlost as she is at home, so far as timber-thieves are concerned. All I
                        am ever uneasy about are the snakes, poison-vines, and insects; and those
                        are risks she must run anywhere. You need not hesitate a minute about that.
                        I shall be glad to tell them what you wish. Thank you very much, and
                        good-day, sir."
                    There was no way in which Freckles could know it, but by following his best
                        instincts and being what he conceived a gentleman should be, he surprised
                        the Man of Affairs into thinking of him and seeing his face over his books
                        many times that morning; whereas, if he had gone to the Angel as he had
                        longed to do, her father would never have given him a second thought.
                    Out on the street he drew a deep breath. How had he acquitted himself? He
                        only knew that he had lived up to his best impulse, and that is all any one
                        can do. He glanced over his wheel to see that it was all right, and just as
                        he stepped to the curb to mount he heard a voice that thrilled through and
                        through him, calling, "Freckles! Oh, Freckles!"
                    
                    The Angel separated herself from a group of laughing, sweet-faced girls and
                        came hurrying up to him. She was in snowy whitea quaint little frock, with a
                        marvel of soft lace about her throat and wrists. Through the sheer sleeves
                        of it her beautiful, rounded arms showed distinctly, and it was cut just to
                        the base of her perfect neck. On her head was a pure white creation of fancy
                        braid, with folds on folds of tulle, soft and silken as cobwebs, lining the
                        brim; and a great mass of white roses clustered against the gold of her
                        hair, crept about the crown, and fell in a riot to her shoulders at the
                        back. There were gleams of gold with settings of blue on her fingers, and
                        altogether she was the daintiest, sweetest sight he had ever seen. Freckles,
                        standing on the curb, forgot himself in his cotton shirt, corduroys, and his
                        belt to which his wire-cutter and pliers were still hanging, and gazed as a
                        man gazes when first he sees the woman he adores with all her charms
                        enhanced by appropriate and beautiful clothing.
                    "Oh, Freckles," she cried as she came up to him.
                        "I was wondering about you the other day. Do you know I never saw
                        you in town before. You watch that old line so closely! Why did you  come in! Is there any trouble? Are you just
                        starting back to the Limberlost?"
                    "I came to bring your hat," said Freckles. "You
                        forgot it in the rush the other day. I have just left it with your father,
                        and a message trying to ixpriss the gratitude of me for how you and the Bird
                        Woman were for helping me out."
                    The Angel nodded gravely, and Freckles saw in a flash that he had done the
                        proper thing in going to her father. Then his heart bounded until it jarred
                        his body, for she was saying that she could scarcely wait for the time to
                        come for the next picture of the Little Chicken's series.
                        "I want to hear the rest of that song, and I hadn't even
                        begun seeing your room yet," she complained. "As for
                        singing, if you can sing like that every day, I can never get enough of it.
                        I wonder if I couldn't bring my banjo and some of the songs I like
                        best. I'll play and you'll sing, and we'll put
                        the birds out of commission."
                    Freckles stood on the curb with down-dropped eyes, for he felt that if he
                        lifted them the tumult of tender adoration in them would show and frighten
                        her.
                    "I was afraid your ixperience the other day  would scare you so that you'd never be coming
                        again," he found himself saying.
                    The Angel laughed gaily.
                    "Did I look scared?" she questioned.
                    "No," said Freckles; "you did not."
                    "Oh, I just enjoyed that," she cried. "Those
                        hateful, stealing old things! I had a big notion to pink one of them, but I
                        thought maybe someway it would be best for you that I shouldn't.
                        They needed it. That didn't scare me; and as for the Bird Woman,
                        she's accustomed to finding snakes, tramps, cross dogs, sheep,
                        cattle, and goodness knows what! You can't frighten her when
                        she's after a picture. Did they come back?"
                    "No," said Freckles. "The gang got there a little
                        after noon and took out the tree, but I must tell you, and you must tell the
                        Bird Woman, that there's no doubt but they will be coming back, and
                        they will have to make it before long now, for it's soon the gang
                        will be there to work on the swamp."
                    "Oh, what a shame!" cried the Angel.
                        "They'll clear out roads, cut down the beautiful trees,
                        and tear up everything. They'll drive away the birds and spoil the
                        cathedral. When they have  done their worst,
                        then all these mills about here will follow in and take out the cheap
                        timber. Then the land owners will dig a few ditches, build some fires, and
                        in two summers more the Limberlost will be in corn and potatoes."
                    They looked at each other, and groaned despairingly in unison.
                    "You like it, too," said Freckles.
                    "Yes," said the Angel; "I love it. Your room is a
                        little piece right out of the heart of fairyland, and the cathedral is
                        God's work, not yours. You only found it and opened the door after
                        He had it completed. The birds, flowers, and vines are all so lovely. The
                        Bird Woman says it is really a fact that the mallows, foxfire, iris, and
                        lilies are larger and of richer colouring there than about the rest of the
                        country. She says it's because of the rich loam and muck. I hate
                        seeing the swamp torn up, and to you it will be like losing your best
                        friend; won't it?"
                    "Something like," said Freckles. "Still,
                        I've the Limberlost in me heart so that all of it will be real to
                        me while I live, no matter what they do to it. I'm glad past
                        telling if you will be coming a few more times, at least until the gang
                        arrives.  Past that time I don't
                        allow meself to be thinking."
                    "Come, get a cool drink before you start back," said the
                        Angel.
                    "I couldn't possibly," said Freckles. "I
                        left Mrs. Duncan on the trail, and she's terribly afraid of a lot
                        of things. If she even sees a big snake, I don't know what
                        she'll do."
                    "It won't take but a minute, and you can ride fast enough
                        to make up for it. Please. I want to think of something fine for you, to
                        make up a little for what you did for me that first day."
                    Freckles looked into the beautiful face of the Angel in sheer wonderment. Did
                        she truly mean it? Would she walk down that street with him, crippled,
                        homely, in mean clothing, with the tools of his occupation about him, and
                        share with him the treat she was offering? He could not believe it even of
                        the Angel. Still, in justice to the candour of her pure, sweet face, he
                        would not believe that she would make the offer and not mean it. She really
                        did think just what she said, but when it came to carrying out her offer and
                        she saw the stares of her friends, the sneers of her enemiesif such as she
                        could have enemiesand heard the  whispered
                        jeers of the curious, then she would see her mistake and be sorry. It was
                        only a manly thing for him to think this out for her and save her from the
                        results of her own blessed bigness of heart.
                    "I railly must be off," said Freckles earnestly,
                        "but I'm thanking you more than you'll ever know
                        for your kindness. I'll just be drinking bowls of icy things all me
                        way home in the thoughts of it."
                    Down came the Angel's foot. Her eyes flashed indignantly.
                        "There's no sense in that," she said.
                        "How do you think you would have felt when you knew I was warm and
                        thirsty and you went and brought me a drink, and I wouldn't take it
                        becausebecause goodness knows why! You can ride faster to make up for the
                        time. I've just thought out what I want to fix for you."
                    She stepped to his side and deliberately slipped her hand under his armthat
                        right arm that ended in an empty sleeve.
                    "You are coming," she said firmly. "I
                        won't have it."
                    Freckles could not have told how he felt, neither could any one else. His
                        blood rioted and his head swam, but he kept his wits. He bent over her.
                    
                    "Please don't, Angel," he said softly.
                        "You don't understand." How Freckles came to
                        understand was a problem.
                    "It's this," he persisted. "If your
                        father came on to me on the street, in my station and dress, with you on me
                        arm, he'd have every right to be caning me before the people, and
                        not a finger would I lift to stay him."
                    The Angel's eyes snapped. "If you think my father cares
                        about my doing anything that is right and kind, and that makes me happy to
                        dowhy, then you completely failed in reading my father, and I'll
                        ask him and just show you."
                    She dropped Freckles' arm and turned toward the entrance to the
                        building. "Why, look there!" she exclaimed.
                    Her father stood in a big window fronting the street, a bundle of papers in
                        his hand, interestedly watching the little scene, with eyes that
                        comprehended quite as thoroughly as if he had heard every word of it. The
                        Angel caught his glance and made a despairing little gesture toward
                        Freckles. The man of affairs answered her with a look of infinite
                        tenderness. He nodded his head and waved the papers in the direction she had
                             indicated, and the veriest dolt could
                        have read the words his lips formed: "Take him along!"
                    A sudden trembling seized Freckles. At sight of the Angel's father
                        he had stepped back as far from her as he could, leaned the wheel against
                        him, and snatched off his hat.
                    The Angel turned on him with triumphing eyes. She was highly strung and not
                        accustomed to being thwarted. "Did you see that?" she
                        demanded. "Now are you satisfied? Will you come, or must I call a
                        policeman to bring you?"
                    Freckles went. There was nothing else to do. Guiding his wheel, he walked
                        down the street beside her. On every hand she was kept busy giving and
                        receiving the cheeriest greetings. She walked into the parlours exactly as
                        if she owned them. A clerk came hurrying to meet her.
                    "There's a table vacant back here by a side window where
                        it's cool. I'll save it for you," and he started
                        back.
                    "Please not," said the Angel. "I've taken
                        this man unawares, when he's in a rush. I'm afraid if we
                        sit down we'll take too much time and afterward he will blame
                        me."
                    She walked up to the fountain, and a long row 
                        of people stared with all the varying degrees of insolence and curiosity
                        that Freckles had felt they would. He glanced at the Angel. Now would she see?
                    "On my soul!" he muttered under his breath. "They
                        don't aven touch her!"
                    She laid down her sunshade and gloves. She walked around to the end of the
                        counter and turned the full battery of her eyes on the attendant.
                    "Please," she said.
                    The white-aproned individual stepped back and gave delighted assent. The
                        Angel walked up beside him, and selecting a tall, flaring glass, of almost
                        paper thinness, she stooped and rolled it in a tray of cracked ice.
                    "I want to mix a drink for my friend," she said.
                        "He has a long, hot ride before him, and I don't want him
                        started off with one of those old palate-teasing sweetnesses that you mix
                        just on purpose to drive a man back in ten minutes." There was an
                        appreciative laugh from the line at the counter.
                    "I want a clear, cool, sparkling drink that has a tang of acid in
                        it. Where's the cherry phosphate? That, not at all sweet, would be
                        good; don't you think?"
                    
                    The attendant did think. He pointed out the different taps, and the Angel
                        compounded the drink, while Freckles, standing so erect he almost leaned
                        backward, fastened his eyes on her and paid no attention to any one else.
                        When she had the glass brimming, she tilted a little of its contents into a
                        second glass and tasted it.
                    "That's entirely too sweet for a thirsty man," she
                        said.
                    She poured out half the mixture and, refilling the glass, tasted it a second
                        time. She submitted that result to the attendant. "Isn't
                        that about the thing?" she asked.
                    He replied enthusiastically, "I'd get my wages raised ten a
                        month if I could learn that trick."
                    The Angel carried the brimming, frosty glass to Freckles. He took off his
                        hat, and lifting the icy liquid even with her eyes and looking straight into
                        them, he said in the mellowest of all the mellow tones of his voice,
                        "I'll be drinking it to the Swamp Angel."
                    And as he had said to her that first day, the Angel now cautioned him,
                        "Be drinking slowly."
                    As the screen-door swung behind them, one of 
                        the men at the counter asked of the attendant, "Now, what did that
                        mean?"
                    "Exactly what you saw," replied he, rather curtly.
                        "We're accustomed to it in here. Hardly a day passes, this
                        hot weather, but she's picking up some poor, god-forsaken mortal
                        and bringing him in. Then she comes behind the counter herself and fixes up
                        a drink to suit the occasion. She's all sorts of fancies about
                        what's what for all kinds of times and conditions, and you bet she
                        can just hit the spot! Ain't a clerk here can put up a drink to
                        touch her. She's a sort of knack at it. Every once in a while, when
                        the Boss sees her, he calls out to her to mix him a drink."
                    "And does she?" asked the man with an interested grin.
                    "Well, I guess! But first she goes back and sees how long it is
                        since he's had a drink. What he drank last. How warm he is. When he
                        ate last. Then she comes up here and mixes a glass of fizz with a little
                        touch of acid, and a bit of cherry, lemon, grape, pineapple, or something
                        sour and cooling. Then she passes it up over those blue eyes of her, and it
                        hits the spot just as no spot was ever hit before. I honestly believe  that the interest she takes
                        in it is half the trick, for I watch her closely and I can't come
                        within gun-shot of her concoctions. She has a running bill here. Her father
                        settles once a month. She gives nine-tenths of it away. Hardly ever touches
                        it herself, but when she does she makes me mix it. She's just old
                        persimmons. Even the scrub-boy of this establishment would fight for her. It
                        lasts the year round, for in winter it's some poor, frozen cuss
                        that she's warming up on hot coffee or chocolate."
                    "Mighty queer specimen she had this time," volunteered
                        another. "Irish, hand off, straight as a ramrod, and something
                        worth while in his face. Notice that hat peel off, and the eyes of him?
                        There's a case of 'fight for her'! Wonder who he
                        is?"
                    "I think," said a third, "that he's
                        McLean's Limberlost guard, and I suspect she's gone to the
                        swamp with the Bird Woman for pictures and knows him that way. I've
                        heard that he is a master hand with the birds, and that would just suit the
                        Bird Woman to a T."
                    Out on the street the Angel walked beside Freckles to the first crossing and
                        there she stopped.  "Now, will you
                        promise to ride fast enough to make up for the five minutes that
                        took?" she asked. "I am a little uneasy about Mrs.
                        Duncan."
                    Freckles turned his wheel into the street. It seemed to him he had poured
                        that delicious, icy liquid into every vein in his body instead of his
                        stomach. It even went to his brain.
                    "Did you insist on fixing that drink because you knew how
                        intoxicating 'twould be?" he asked.
                    There was subtlety in the compliment and it delighted the Angel. She laughed
                        gleefully.
                    "Next time, maybe you won't take so much coaxing,"
                        she teased.
                    "I wouldn't this, if I had known your father and been
                        understanding you better. Do you really think the Bird Woman will be coming
                        again?"
                    The Angel jeered. "Wild horses couldn't drag her
                        away," she cried. "She will have hard work to wait the
                        week out. I shouldn't be in the least surprised to see her start
                        any hour."
                    Freckles couldn't bear the suspense; it had to come.
                    "And you?" he questioned, but he dared not lift his eyes.
                    
                    "Wild horses me, too," she laughed,
                        "couldn't keep me away either! I dearly love to come, and
                        the next time I am going to bring my banjo, and I'll play, and
                        you'll sing for me some of the songs I like best; won't
                        you?"
                    "Yis," said Freckles, because it was all he was capable of
                        saying just then.
                    "It's beginning to act stormy," she said.
                        "If you hurry you will just about make it. Now,
                    good-bye."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX
                    WHEREIN THE LIMBERLOST FALLS UPON MRS. DUNCAN AND FRECKLES COMES TO THE RESCUE
                    
                    FRECKLES was half-way to the Limberlost when he
                        dismounted. He could ride no further, because he could not see the road. He
                        sat down under a tree, and, leaning against it, burst into a storm of sobs
                        that shook, twisted, and rent him. If they would remind him of his position,
                        speak condescendingly, or notice his hand, he could bear it, but thisit
                        would surely kill him! His hot, pulsing Irish blood could not bear it. What
                        did they mean? Why did they do it? Were they like that to every one? Was it
                        pity?
                    It could not be, for he knew that the Bird Woman and the Angel's
                        father must know that he was not really McLean's son, and it did
                        not matter to them in the least. In spite of accident and poverty, they
                        evidently expected him to de  something worth
                        while in the world. That must be his remedy. He must go to work on his
                        education. He must get away. He must find and do the great thing of which
                        the Angel talked. For the first time, his thoughts turned anxiously toward
                        the city and the beginning of his studies. McLean and the Duncans spoke of
                        him as "the boy," but he was a man. He must face life
                        bravely and act a man's part. The Angel was a mere child. He must
                        not allow her to torture him past bearing with her frank comradeship that
                        meant to him high heaven, earth's richness, and all that lay
                        between, and just nothing to her.
                    There was an ominous growl of thunder, and, amazed at himself, Freckles
                        snatched up his wheel and raced for the swamp. He was worried to find his
                        boots lying at the cabin door; the children playing on the woodpile told him
                        that mither said they were so heavy she couldn't walk in them, and
                        she had come back and taken them off. Thoroughly frightened, he stopped only
                        long enough to slip them on himself, and then sped with all his strength for
                        the Limberlost. To the west, the long, black, hard-beaten trail lay clear;
                        but far up the east side, straight across the path, he could  see what was certainly a limp, brown figure.
                        Freckles spun with all his might.
                    Face down, Sarah Duncan lay across the trail. When Freckles turned her over,
                        his blood chilled at the look of horror frozen on her face. There was a low
                        humming and something spatted against him. Glancing about, Freckles shivered
                        in terror, for there was a swarm of wild bees settled on a scrub-thorn only
                        a few yards away. The air was thick with excited, unsettled bees making
                        ready to lead further in search of a suitable location. Then he thought he
                        understood, and with a prayer of thankfulness in his heart that she had
                        escaped, even so narrowly, he caught her up and hurried down the trail until
                        they were well out of danger. He laid her down in the shade, and carrying
                        water from the swamp in the crown of his hat, he bathed her face and hands;
                        but she lay in unbroken stillness, without a sign of life about her.
                    She had found Freckles' boots so large and heavy that she had gone
                        back and taken them off, although she was mortally afraid to approach the
                        swamp without them. The thought of it made her nervous, and the fact that
                        she had never been there alone added to her fears. She had not  followed the trail many rods when her trouble
                        began. She was not Freckles, and not a bird of the line was going to be
                        fooled into thinking she was.
                    They kept whizzing from their nests and darting from all sorts of unexpected
                        places about her head and feet, with quick whirrs, that kept her starting
                        and jumping. Before Freckles was halfway to the town, poor Mrs. Duncan was
                        hysterical, and the Limberlost had neither sung nor performed for her.
                    But there was trouble brewing. It was still and intensely hot, with that
                        stifling stillness that precedes a summer storm, and feathers and fur were
                        tense and nervous. The birds were singing only a few broken snatches, and
                        flying about, seeking places of shelter. One moment everything seemed devoid
                        of life, the next there was an unexpected whirr, buzz, and sharp cry.
                        Inside, a pandemonium of growling, spatting, snarling, and grunting broke
                        loose.
                    The swale bent flat before heavy gusts of wind, and the big black chicken
                        swept lower and lower over the swamp. Patches of clouds gathered, shutting
                        out the sun and making it very dark, and the next moment were swept away.
                        The sun  poured down with fierce, burning
                        brightness, and everything was still. It was at the first growl of thunder
                        that Freckles had really noticed the weather, and putting his own troubles
                        aside resolutely, raced for the swamp.
                    Sarah Duncan paused on the line. "Weel, I wouldna stay in this place
                        for a million a month,' she said aloud, and the sound of her voice
                        brought no comfort, for it was so little like she had thought it that she
                        glanced hastily about to see if it had really been she that spoke. She
                        tremblingly wiped the perspiration from her face with the skirt of her
                        sunbonnet.
                    "Awfu' hot," she panted huskily.
                        "B'lieve there's going to be a big storm. I do
                        hope Freckles will hurry."
                    Her chin was quivering like a terrified child's. She lifted her
                        bonnet to replace it and brushed it against a bush beside her. Whirr, almost into her face, went a big night-hawk stretched along
                        a limb for its daytime nap. Mrs. Duncan cried out and sprang down the trail,
                        lighting on a frog that was just hopping across. The horrible croak it gave
                        as she crushed it sickened her. She screamed wildly and jumped to one side.
                        That  carried her into the swale, where the
                        grasses reached nearly to her waist, and, her horror of snakes returning,
                        she made a flying leap for an old log lying along the line. She lit on it
                        squarely, but it was so damp and rotten that she sank straight through it to
                        her knees. She caught at the wire as she went down, and, missing, raked her
                        wrist over a barb until she laid it open in a bleeding gash. Her fingers
                        closed convulsively around the second strand. She was too frightened to
                        scream now. Her tongue stiffened. She clung franticall to the sagging wire,
                        and finally managed to grasp it with the other hand. Then she could reach
                        the top wire, and so she drew herself up and found solid footing. She picked
                        up the club that she had dropped in order to extricate herself. Leaning
                        heavily on it, she managed to get back to the trail, but she was trembling
                        so that she could scarcely walk. Going a few steps farther, she came to the
                        stump of the first tree that had been taken out.
                    She sat bolt upright and very still, trying to collect her thoughts and
                        reason off her terror. A squirrel above her dropped a nut, and as it came
                        rattling down, bounding from branch to branch,  every nerve in her tugged wildly. When the disgusted squirrel barked
                        loudly, she sprang to the trail.
                    The wind rose higher, the changes from light to darkness were more abrupt,
                        and the thunder came nearer and louder at every peal. In swarms the
                        blackbirds rose from the swale and came flocking to the interior, with a
                        clamouring cry, "T'check,
                            t'check." Grackles marshalled to their tribal
                        call, "Trall-a-hee, trall-a-hee."
                        Red-winged blackbirds swept low, calling to belated mates, "Fol-low-me, fol-low-me." Huge, jetty crows
                        gathered about her, crying, as if warning her to flee before it was
                        overlastingly too late. A heron, fishing the near-by pool for
                        Freckles' "find-out" frog, fell into trouble with
                        a muskrat and let out a rasping note that sent Mrs. Duncan a rod down the
                        line without realising that she had moved. She was too shaken to run far.
                        She stopped and looked fearfully around her.
                    Several bees struck her and were angrily buzzing about before she noticed
                        them. Then the humming swelled to a roar on all sides. A great, convulsive
                        sob shook her, and she ran into the bushes, now into the swale, anywhere  to avoid the swarming bees, ducking, dodging,
                        fighting for her very life. Presently the humming seemed to grow a little
                        fainter. She found the trail again, and ran with all her might from a few of
                        her angry pursuers.
                    And as she ran, straining every muscle, she suddenly became aware that,
                        crossing the trail before her, was a great, round, black body, with brown
                        markings on its back, like painted geometrical patterns. She tried to stop,
                        but the louder buzzing behind warned her she dared not. Gathering her skirts
                        still higher, with hair flying about her face and her eyes almost bursting
                        from their sockets, she ran straight toward it. The sound of her feet and
                        the humming of the bees alarmed the rattler, and it stopped squarely across
                        the trail, lifting its head above the grasses of the swale and rattling
                        inquiringlyrattled until the bees were outdone.
                    Straight at it went the panic-stricken woman, running wildly and
                        uncontrollably. She took one great leap, clearing its body on the path, and
                        then flew on with winged feet. The snake, coiling to strike, missed Mrs.
                        Duncan and landed among the bees instead. They settled over and about it,
                             and realising that it had found trouble,
                        it sank among the grasses and went threshing toward the deep willow-fringed
                        low ground where its den was, until the swale looked as if a mighty reaper
                        were cutting a wide swath. The mass of enraged bees darted angrily about,
                        searching for it, and, colliding with the scrub-thorn, began a temporary
                        settling there to discover whether it was a suitable place. Completely
                        exhausted, Mrs. Duncan staggered on a few steps farther, fell face down on
                        the path, where Freckles found her, and lay still.
                    Freckles worked with her until she drew a long. quivering breath and opened
                        her eyes.
                    When she saw him bending over her, she closed them tightly, and gripping him,
                        struggled to her feet. He helped her up, and with his arm about and half
                        carrying her, they made their way to the clearing. She clung to him and
                        helped herself with all her remaining strength, but open her eyes she would
                        not until her children came clustering about her. Then, brawny, big
                        Scotswoman though she was, she quietly keeled over again. The children added
                        their wailing to Freckles' panic.
                    This time he was so near the cabin that he could carry her into the house and
                        lay her on the  bed. He sent the oldest boy
                        scudding down the corduroy for the nearest neighbour, and between them they
                        undressed her and discovered that she was not bitten. They bathed and bound
                        up the bleeding wrist and coaxed her back to consciousness. She lay sobbing
                        and shuddering. The first intelligent word she said was, "Freckles,
                        look at that jar on the kitchen table and see if my yeast is no running
                        ower."
                    Several days went by before she could give Duncan and Freckles any detailed
                        account of what had happened to her, and then she could not do it without
                        crying like the least of her babies. Freckles was almost heartbroken, and
                        nursed her as well as any woman could have done; while big Duncan, with a
                        heart full for them both, worked early and late to chink every crack about
                        the cabin and examine every spot near it that could possibly harbour a
                        snake. The effects of her morning on the trail kept her shivering half the
                        time. She could not rest until she sent for McLean and begged him to save
                        Freckles from further risk about that place of horrors. The Boss went down
                        to the swamp with his mind fully made up to do so.
                    
                    Freckles stood and laughed at him. "Why, Mr. McLean, don't
                        you let a woman's nervous system set you worrying over
                        me," he said. " I'm not denying how she felt,
                        because I've been through it meself, but that's all over
                        and gone. It's the height of me glory to fight it out with the old
                        swamp, and all that's in it, or will be coming to it, and then to
                        turn it over to you as I promised you and meself I'd do, sir. You
                        couldn't break the heart of me entire quicker than to be taking it
                        from me now, when I'm just on the home-stretch. It won't
                        be over three or four weeks yet, and when I've gone it almost the
                        year, why, what's that to me, sir? You mustn't let a woman
                        get mixed up with business, for I've always heard about how
                        it's bringing trouble."
                    McLean smiled. "What about that last tree?" he said.
                    Freckles blushed and grinned appreciatively.
                    "Angels and Bird Women don't count in the common run,
                        sir," he affirmed, shamelessly.
                    McLean lay back in the saddle and laughed.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    WHEREIN FRECKLES
                            STRIVES MIGHTILY AND THE SWAMP ANGEL REWARDS
                            HIM
                    
                    THE Bird Woman and the Angel did not seem to count in the
                        common run, for they arrived on time for the third of the series and found
                        McLean on the line talking to Freckles. The Boss was filled with enthusiasm
                        over a marsh article of the Bird Woman's that he had just read. He
                        begged to be allowed to accompany her into the swamp and watch the method by
                        which she secured an illustration in such a location.
                    The Bird Woman explained to him that it was an easy matter with the subject
                        she then had in hand; and, as Little Chicken was too small to be frightened
                        by him, and big enough to be getting troublesome, she was glad of his
                        company. They went to the chicken log together, leaving to the happy
                        Freckles the care of the Angel, who had brought her banjo and a roll of
                        songs that she  wanted to hear him sing. The
                        Bird Woman told them that they might go to Freckles' room and
                        practise until she finished with Little Chicken, and then she and McLean
                        would come to the concert.
                    It was almost three hours before they finished and came down the west trail
                        for their rest and lunch in Freckles' room. McLean walked ahead,
                        keeping sharp watch on the trail and clearing it of fallen limbs from
                        overhanging trees. He sent a big piece of bark flying into the swale, and
                        then stopped short and stared down at the trail.
                    The Bird Woman bent forward. Together they studied that imprint of the
                        Angel's foot. At last their eyes met, the Bird Woman's
                        filled with astonishment, and McLean's humid with pity. Neither
                        said a word, but they knew. McLean entered the swale and hunted up the bark.
                        He tenderly replaced it, and the Bird Woman carefully stepped over. As they
                        reached the bushes at the entrance, the voice of the Angel stopped them, for
                        it was commanding and filled with much impatience.
                    "Freckles James Ross McLean!" she was saving. "You
                        fill me with dark-blue despair! You're singing as if your voice was
                        glass and liable 
                        
                            "And what is it I've to be proud of,
                                ma'am?" politely inquired Freckles.
                        
                         to break at any minute. Why don't
                        you sing as you did a week ago? Answer me that, please?"
                    Freckles smiled confusedly at the Angel, who sat on one of his fancy seats
                        playing his accompaniment on her banjo.
                    "You are a fraud," she said. "Here you went last
                        week and led me to think that there was the making of a great singer in you,
                        and now you are singingdo you know how badly you are singing?"
                    "Yis," said Freckles meekly. "I'm
                        thinking I'm too happy to be singing well to-day. The music
                        don't come right only when I'm lonesome and sad. The
                        world's for being all sunshine at prisint, for among you and Mr.
                        McLean and the Bird Woman I'm after being that
                        happy that I can't keep me thoughts on me notes. It's more
                        than sorry I am to be disappointing you. Play it over, and I'll be
                        beginning again, and this time I'll hold hard."
                    "Well," said the Angel, disgustedly, "it seems to
                        me that if I had all the things to be proud of that you have, I'd
                        lift up my head and sing!"
                    "And what is it I've to be proud of,
                        ma'am?" politely inquired Freckles.
                    "Why, a whole worldful of things," cried the  Angel, explosively. "For one thing,
                        you can be good and proud over the way you've kept the
                        timber-thieves out of this lease, and the trust your father has in you. You
                        can be proud that you've never even once disappointed him or failed
                        in what he believed you could do. You can be proud over the way every one
                        speaks of you with trust and honour, and about how brave of heart and strong
                        of body you are. I heard a big man say a few days ago that the Limberlost
                        was full of disagreeable thingspositive dangers, unhealthy as it could be,
                        and that since the memory of the first settlers it has been a rendezvous for
                        runaways, thieves, and murderers. This swamp is named for a man that got
                        lost here and wandered around 'till he starved. That man I was
                        talking with said he wouldn't take your job for a thousand dollars
                        a monthin fact, he said he wouldn't have it for any money, and
                        you've never missed a day or lost a tree. Proud! Why, I should
                        think you would just parade around about proper over that!
                    "And you can always be proud that you are born an Irishman. My
                        father is Irish, and if you want to see him just get up and strut, give him
                        a teeny opening to enlarge on his race. He says  that if the Irish had decent territory they'd lead the world. He
                        says they've always been handicapped by lack of space and of
                        fertile soil. He says if Ireland had been as big and fertile as Indiana,
                        why, England wouldn't ever have had the upper hand. She'd
                        just be a little appendage. Fancy England an appendage! He says Ireland has
                        the finest orators and the keenest statesmen in Europe to-day, and when
                        England wants to fight, with whom does she fill her trenches? Irishmen, of
                        course! Ireland has the greenest grass and trees, the finest stones and
                        lakes, and they've jaunting-cars. I don't know just
                        exactly what they are, but Ireland has all there are, anyway.
                        They've a lot of great actors, and a few singers, and there never
                        was a sweeter poet than one of theirs. You should hear my father recite
                        'Dear Harp of My Country.' He does it this way."
                    The Angel rose, made an elaborate old-time bow, and holding up the banjo,
                        recited in clipping feet and metre, with rhythmic swing and a touch of
                        brogue that was simply irresistible:
                    "Dear harp of my country" [The Angel ardently clasped the
                        banjo],
                    
                    "In darkness I found thee" [She held it up to the light],
                    "The cold chain of silence had hung o'er thee
                        long" [She muted the strings with her rosy palm];
                    "Then proudly, my own Irish harp, I unbound thee" [She
                        threw up her head and swept a ringing harmony];
                    "And gave all thy chords to light, freedom, and song" [She
                        crashed into the notes of the accompaniment she had been playing for
                        Freckles].
                    "That's what you want to be thinking of!" she
                        cried. "Not darkness, and lonesomeness, and sadness, but
                        'light, freedom, and song.' I can't begin to
                        think off-hand of all the big, splendid things an Irishman has to be proud
                        of; but whatever they are, they are all yours, and you are a part of them. I
                        just despise that 'saddest-when-I-sing' business. You can
                        sing! Now you go over there and do it! Ireland has had her statesmen,
                        warriors, actors, and poets; now you be her voice! You stand right out there
                        before the cathedral door, and I'm going to come down the aisle
                        playing that accompaniment, and when I stop in front of youyou
                        sing!"
                    The Angel's face wore an unusual flush. Her  eyes were flashing and she was palpitating with earnestness.
                    She parted the bushes and disappeared. Freckles, straight as a young pine,
                        and with the tenseness of a war-horse scenting battle, stood waiting.
                        Presently, before he saw she was there, she was coming down the aisle toward
                        him, playing compellingly, and rifts of light were touching her with golden
                        glory. Freckles stood as if transfixed. The blood rioted in his veins.
                    The cathedral was majestically beautiful, from arched dome of frescoed gold,
                        green, and blue in never-ending shades and harmonies, to the mosaic aisle
                        she trod, richly inlaid in choicest colours, and gigantic pillars that were
                        God's handiwork, fashioned and perfected down through ages of
                        sunshine and rain. But the fair young face and divinely moulded form of the
                        Angel were His most perfect work of all. Never had she looked so
                        surpassingly beautiful. She was smiling encouragingly now, and as she came
                        toward him she struck the chords full and strong.
                    The heart of poor Freckles almost burst with dull pain and his great love for
                        her. In his desire to fulfil her expectations he forgot everything else,  and when she reached his initial chord he was
                        ready. He literally burst forth:
                    
                        "Three little leaves of Irish green,
                        United on one stem,
                        Love, truth, and valour do they mean,
                        They form a magic gem."
                    
                    The Angel's eyes widened curiously and her lips fell apart. A
                        heavier colour swept into her cheeks. She had intended to arouse him. She
                        had succeeded with a vengeance. She was too young to know that in the effort
                        to rouse a man, women frequently kindle fires that they can neither quench
                        nor control. Freckles was looking out over her head now and singing that
                        song, as it had never been sung before, for her alone; and instead of her
                        helping him, as she had intended, he was carrying her with him on the waves
                        of his voice, away, away into a world she knew not of. When he struck into
                        the chorus, wide-eyed and panting, she was swaying toward him and playing
                        for dear life to keep up.
                    
                        "Oh, do you love? Oh, say you love,
                        You love the shamrock green!"
                    
                    At the last note, Freckles' voice died away and his eyes fastened on
                        the Angel's. He had given  his best
                        and his all. He fell on his knees and folded his arms across his breast. The
                        Angel, as if magnetised, walked straight down the aisle to him, and running
                        her fingers into the crisp masses of his red hair, tilted his head back and
                        laid her lips on his forehead.
                    Then she stepped back and faced him. "Good boy!" she said,
                        in a voice that wavered from the throbbing of her shaken heart.
                        "Dear boy! I knew you could do it! I knew it was in you! Freckles,
                        when you go out into the world, if you can face a great audience and sing
                        like that, just once, you will be immortal, and anything you want will be
                        yours."
                    "Anything?" gasped Freckles.
                    "Anything," said the Angel.
                    Freckles found his feet, muttered something, and catching up his old bucket,
                        plunged into the swamp blindly on a pretence of getting water. The Angel
                        walked slowly across the study, and sat down on the rustic bench, and,
                        through narrowed lids, intently studied the tip of her shoe.
                    Out on the trail the Bird Woman wheeled on McLean with a dumbfounded look.
                    
                    "God!" muttered he.
                    At last the Bird Woman spoke.
                    "Do you think the Angel knew she did that?" she asked
                        softly.
                    "No," said McLean; "I do not. But the poor boy
                        knew it. Heaven help him!"
                    The Bird Woman stared across the gently waving swale. "I
                        don't see how I am going to blame her," she said at last.
                        "It's so exactly what I would have done myself."
                    "Say the rest," demanded McLean hoarsely. "Do him
                        justice."
                    "He is a born gentleman," conceded the Bird Woman.
                        "He took no advantage. He never even offered to touch her. Whatever
                        that kiss meant to him, he recognised that it was the loving impulse of a
                        child under stress of strong emotion. He was fine and manly as any man ever
                        could have been."
                    McLean lifted his hat. "Thank you," he said simply, and
                        parted the bushes for her to enter. Freckles' room.
                    It was her first visit, and before she left she sent for her cameras and made
                        studies of each side of it and of the cathedral. She was entranced  with the delicate beauty of the place, and
                        her eyes kept following Freckles as if she could not believe that it could
                        be his conception and work.
                    That was a happy day. The Bird Woman had brought a lunch, and they spread it,
                        with Freckles' dinner, on the study floor and sat about, resting
                        and enjoying themselves. But the Angel put her banjo into its case, silently
                        gathered up her music, and no one mentioned the concert.
                    The Bird Woman left McLean and the Angel to clear away the lunch, and with
                        Freckles examined the walls of his room and told him all she knew about his
                        shrubs and flowers. She analysed a cardinal flower and showed him what he
                        had all summer wanted to knowwhy the bees buzzed ineffectually about it
                        while the humming birds found in it an ever-ready feast. Some of his
                        specimens were so rare that she was unfamiliar with them, and with the
                        flower-book between them they knelt, studying the different varieties. She
                        wandered the length of the cathedral aisle with him, and it was at her
                        suggestion that he lighted his altar with a row of flaming foxfire.
                    As Freckles came up to the cabin from his long day at the swamp he saw Mrs.
                        Chicken sweeping  away to the south and
                        wondered where she was going. He stepped into the bright, cosy little
                        kitchen, and as he reached down the wash-basin he asked Mrs. Duncan a
                        question.
                    "Mother Duncan, do kisses wash off?"
                    So warm a wave swept her heart that a half-flush mantled her face. She
                        straightened her shoulders and glanced down at her hands tenderly.
                    "Lord, na! Freckles," she cried. "At least, the
                        anes ye get from people ye love dinna. They dinna stay on the outside. They
                        strike in until they find the centre of your heart and make their
                        stopping-place there, and naething can take them from yeI doubt if even
                        death! Na, lad, ye can be reet sure kisses dinna wash off!"
                    Freckles set the basin down and muttered as he plunged his hot, tired face
                        into the water, "I needn't be afraid to be washing, then,
                        for that one struck in."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI
                    WHEREIN THE BUTTERFLIES GO ON A SPREE AND
                            FRECKLES INFORMS THE BIRD WOMAN
                    
                    "I WISH," said Freckles at breakfast one
                        morning, "that I had some way to be sending a message to the Bird
                        Woman. I've something down at the swamp that I'm believing
                        never happened before, and surely she'll be wanting it."
                    "What now, Freckles?" asked Mrs. Duncan.
                    "Why, the oddest thing you ever heard of," said Freckles;
                        "the whole insect tribe gone on a spree. I'm supposing
                        it's my fault, but it all happened by accident, like. You see, on
                        the swale side of the line, right against me trail, there's one of
                        these scrub wild crab-trees. Where the grass grows thick about it, is the
                        finest place you ever conceived of for snakes. Having women about has set me
                        trying to clean out those fellows a bit, and yesterday I noticed that tree
                        in passing. It struck me that it would be a good idea to be  taking it out. First I thought I'd
                        take me hatchet and cut it down, for it ain't thicker than me upper
                        arm. Then I remembered how it was blooming in the spring and filling all the
                        air with sweetness. The colouring of the blossoms is beautiful, and I hated
                        to be killing it. I just cut the grass short all about it. Then I started at
                        the ground, trimmed up the trunk near the height of me shoulder, and left
                        the top spreading. That made it look so truly ornamental that, idle like, I
                        chips off the rough places neat, and this morning, on me soul, it's
                        a sight! You see, cutting off the limbs and trimming up the trunk sets the
                        sap running. In this hot sun it ferments in a few hours. There
                        isn't much room for more things to crowd on that tree than there
                        are, and to get drunker isn't noways possible."
                    "Weel, I be drawed on!" exclaimed Mrs. Duncan.
                        "What kind of things do ye mean, Freckles?"
                    "Why, just an army of black ants. Some of them are sucking away like
                        old topers. Some of them are setting up on their tails and hind legs,
                        fiddling away with their fore-feet and wiping their eyes. Some are rolling
                        around on the ground  contented. There are
                        quantities of big bluebottle flies over the bark and hanging on the grasses
                        about, too drunk to steer a course flying; so they just buzz away like
                        flying, and all the time sitting still. The snake-feeders are too full to
                        feed anythingeven more sap to themselves. There's a lot of
                        hard-backed bugsbeetles, I guesscoloured like the brown, blue, and black of
                        a peacock's tail. They hang on until the legs of them are so wake
                        they can't stick a minute longer, and then they break away and fall
                        to the ground. They just lay there on their backs, fably clawing air. When
                        it wears off a bit, up they get, and go crawling back for more, and they so
                        full they bump into each other and roll over. Sometimes they can't
                        climb the tree until they wait to sober up a little. There's a lot
                        of big black-and-gold bumblebees, done for entire, stumbling over the bark
                        and rolling on the ground. They just lay there on their backs, rocking from
                        side to side, singing to themsilves like fat, happy babies. The wild bees
                        keep up a steady buzzing with the beating of their wings.
                    "The butterflies are the worst old topers of them all.
                        They're just a circus! You never saw 
                        the beat of the beauties! They come every colour you could be naming, and
                        every shape you could be thinking up. They drink and drink until, if
                        I'm driving them away, they stagger as they fly and turn
                        somersaults in the air. If I lave them alone, they cling to the grasses,
                        shivering happy like; and I'm blest, Mother Duncan, if the best of
                        them could be unlocking the front door with a lead-pencil, even."
                    "I never heard of anything sae surprising," said Mrs.
                        Duncan.
                    "It's a rare sight to watch them, and no one ever made a
                        picture of a thing like that before, I'm for thinking,"
                        said Freckles, earnestly.
                    "Na," said Mrs. Duncan. "Ye can be pretty sure
                        there didna. The Bird Woman must have word in some way, if ye walk the line
                        and I walk to town and tell her. If ye think ye can wait until after supper,
                        I am most sure ye can gang yoursel', for Duncan is coming home and
                        he'd be glad to watch for ye. If he does na come, and na ane passes
                        that I can send word with to-day, I really will gang early in the morning
                        and tell her mysel'."
                    Freckles took his lunch and went down to the 
                        swamp. He walked and watched eagerly. He could find no trace of anything,
                        yet he felt a tense nervousness, as if trouble might be brooding. He
                        examined every section of the wire, and kept watchful eyes on the grasses of
                        the swale, in an effort to discover if any one had passed through them; but
                        he could discover no trace of anything to justify his fears.
                    He tilted his hat brim to shade his face and looked up for his chickens. They
                        were both hanging almost out of sight in the sky.
                    "Gee!" he said. "If I only had your sharp eyes and
                        convenient location now, I wouldn't need be troubling so."
                    He came around to his room and cautiously scanned the entrance before he
                        stepped in. Then he pushed the bushes apart with his right arm and entered,
                        his left hand on the butt of his favourite revolver. Instantly he knew that
                        some one had been there. He stepped to the centre of the room, closely
                        scanning each wall and the floor. He could find no trace of a clew to
                        confirm his belief, yet so intimate was he with the spirit of the place that
                        he knew.
                    How he knew he could not have told, yet he  did
                        know that some one had entered his room, sat on his benches, and walked over
                        his floor. He was most sure about the case. Nothing was disturbed, yet it
                        seemed to Freckles that he could see where prying fingers had tried the
                        lock. He stepped back of the case, carefully examining the ground all about
                        it, and close by the tree to which it was nailed he found a deep, fresh
                        footprint in the spongy soila long, narrow print, that was never made by the
                        foot of Wessner. His heart tugged in his breast as he mentally measured the
                        print, but he did not linger, for now the feeling rose that he was being
                        watched. It seemed to him he could feel the eyes of some intruder boring
                        into his back. He knew he was examining things too closely: if any one were
                        watching, he did not want him to know that he felt it.
                    He took the most open way, and carried water for his flowers and moss as
                        usual; but he put himself into no position in which he was fully exposed,
                        and his hand was near his revolver constantly. Growing restive at last under
                        the strain, he plunged boldly into the swamp and searched minutely all about
                        his room, but he could not discover the least thing to give him further
                        cause  for alarm. He unlocked his case, took
                        out his wheel, and for the rest of the day he rode and watched as he never
                        had before. Several times he locked up the wheel and crossed the swamp on
                        foot, zigzagging to cover all the space possible. Every rod he travelled he
                        used the caution that sprang from knowledge of danger and the direction from
                        which it would probably come. Several times he thought of sending for
                        McLean, but for his life he could not make up his mind to do it with nothing
                        more tangible than one footprint to justify him.
                    He waited until he was sure Duncan would be at home, if he were coming for
                        the night, before he went up to supper. The first thing he saw as he crossed
                        the swale was the big bays in the yard.
                    There had been no one passing that day, and Duncan readily agreed to watch
                        until Freckles rode to town. He told Duncan of the footprint, and urged him
                        to watch closely. Duncan said he might rest easy, and, filling his pipe and
                        taking a good revolver, the big man went down to the Limberlost.
                    Freckles made himself clean and neat, and raced for town, but it was night
                        and the stars were  shining before he reached
                        the home of the Bird Woman. From afar he could see that the house was ablaze
                        with lights. When he reached the gate, the lawn and veranda were strung with
                        fancy lanterns and alive with people. He thought his errand important, and
                        to turn back never occurred to Freckles. This was all the time or
                        opportunity he would have. He must see the Bird Woman, and see her now. He
                        leaned his wheel inside the fence and walked up the broad front entrance. As
                        he neared the steps, he saw that the place was swarming with young people,
                        and the Angel, with an excuse to a group that surrounded her, came hurrying
                        up to him.
                    "Oh, Freckles!" she cried, delightedly. "So you
                        could get off? We were so afraid you could not! I'm as glad as I
                        can be!"
                    "I don't understand," said Freckles.
                        "Were you expecting me?"
                    "Why, of course!" exclaimed the Angel.
                        "Haven't you come to my party? Didn't you get my
                        invitation? I sent you one."
                    "By mail?" asked Freckles.
                    "Yes," said the Angel. "I had to help with the
                        preparations, and I couldn't find time to  drive out; but I wrote you a letter, and told you that the
                        Bird Woman was giving a party for me, and we wanted you to come, sure. I
                        told them at the office to put it with Mr. Duncan's mail."
                    "Then that's likely where it is at present," said
                        Freckles. "Duncan only comes to town once a week, and at times not
                        that. He's home to-night for the first in a week. He's
                        watching an hour for me until I was coming to the Bird Woman with a bit of
                        work I thought she'd be caring to hear about bad. Is she where I
                        can see her?"
                    The Angel's face clouded.
                    "What a disappointment!" she cried. "I did so want
                        all my friends to know you. Can't you stay anyway?"
                    Freckles glanced from his wading-boots to the patent leathers of some of the
                        Angel's friends near by, and smiled whimsically, but there was no
                        danger of his ever misjudging her again.
                    "You know I cannot, Angel," he said.
                    "I am afraid I do," she said ruefully.
                        "It's too bad! But there is a thing I want for you more
                        than to come to my party, and that is to hang on and win with your work. I
                        think of you  every day, and I just pray that
                        those thieves are not getting ahead of you. Oh, Freckles, do watch
                        closely!"
                    She was so lovely a picture as she stood before him, ardent in his cause,
                        that Freckles could not take his eyes from her to notice what her friends
                        were thinking. If she did not mind, why should he? Anyway, if they really
                        were the Angel's friends, they were probably better accustomed to
                        her ways than he.
                    Her face and bared neck and arms were like the wild-rose bloom. Her soft
                        frock of white tulle lifted and stirred about her with the gentle evening
                        air. The beautiful golden hair, that crept about her temples and ears as if
                        it loved to cling there, was caught back and bound with broad blue satin
                        ribbon. There was a sash of blue about her waist, and knots of it catching
                        up her draperies.
                    "Must I go for the Bird Woman?" she pleaded.
                    "Indade, you must," answered Freckles, firmly.
                    The Angel went away, but returned to say that the Bird Woman was telling a
                        story to those inside and she could not come for a short time.
                    You won't come in?" she pleaded.
                    
                    
                        You won't come in?" she pleaded.
                    
                    
                    "I must not," said Freckles. "I am not dressed to
                        be among your friends, and I might be forgetting meself and stay too
                        long."
                    "Then," said the Angel, "we mustn't go
                        through the house, because it would disturb the story; but I want you to
                        come around the outside way to the conservatory and have some of my birthday
                        lunch and get some cake to take to Mrs. Duncan and the babies.
                        Won't that be fun?"
                    Freckles thought that it would be more than fun, and followed delightedly.
                    The Angel gave him a big glass, brimming with some icy, sparkling liquid that
                        struck his palate as it had never been touched before, because a combination
                        of frosty fruit juices had not been a frequent beverage with him. The night
                        was warm, and the Angel most beautiful and kind. A sort of triple delirium
                        of spirit, mind, and body seized upon him and developed a boldness all
                        unnatural. He slightly parted the heavy curtains that separated the
                        conservatory from the company and looked in. He almost stopped breathing. He
                        had read of things like that, but he had never seen them.
                    The open space seemed to stretch away through 
                        half a dozen rooms, all ablaze with lights, perfumed with flowers, and
                        filled with elegantly dressed people. There were glimpses of polished
                        floors, sparkling glass, and fine furnishings. From somewhere, the voice of
                        his beloved Bird Woman rose and fell.
                    The Angel crowded up beside him and was watching also.
                    "Doesn't it look pretty?" she whispered.
                    "Do you suppose Heaven is any finer than that?" asked
                        Freckles.
                    The Angel burst into a laugh.
                    "Do you want to be laughing harder than that?" queried
                        Freckles.
                    "A laugh is always good," said the Angel. "A
                        little more avoirdupois won't hurt me. Go ahead."
                    "Well, then," said Freckles, "it's only
                        that I feel all over as if I belonged in there. I could wear fine clothes,
                        and move over those floors, and hold me own against the best of
                        them."
                    "But where does my laugh come in?" demanded the Angel, as
                        if she had been defrauded.
                    "And you ask me where the laugh comes in, looking me in the face
                        after that," marvelled Freckles.
                    
                    "I wouldn't be so foolish as to laugh at such a manifest
                        truth as that," said the Angel. "Any one that knows you
                        even half as well as I do, knows that you are never guilty of a discourtesy,
                        and you move with twice the grace of any man here. Why shouldn't
                        you feel as if you belonged where people are graceful and
                        courteous?"
                    "On me soul!" said Freckles, "you are kind to be
                        thinking it. You are doubly kind to be saying it."
                    The curtains parted and a woman came toward them. Her silks and laces trailed
                        along the polished floors. The lights gleamed on her neck and arms, and
                        flashed from rare jewels. She was smiling brightly; and, until she spoke,
                        Freckles had not fully realised that it was his loved Bird Woman.
                    Noticing his bewilderment, she cried, "Why, Freckles! Don't
                        you know me in my war clothes?"
                    "I do in the uniform in which you fight the Limberlost,"
                        said Freckles.
                    The Bird Woman broke into a laugh. Then he told her why he had come, and she
                        could scarcely believe him. She could not say exactly when  she would come, but she would make it as soon
                        as possible, for she was most anxious for the study.
                    As they talked, the Angel was busy packing a box of sandwiches, cake, fruit,
                        and flowers. She gave him a last frosty glass, thanked him repeatedly for
                        bringing news of new material, and then Freckles went out into the night. He
                        rode for the Limberlost with his eyes on the stars. Presently he took off
                        his hat, hung it to his belt, and ruffled his hair to the sweep of the night
                        wind. He filled the air all the way with snatches of oratorios, gospel
                        hymns, and dialect and coon songs, in a startlingly varied programme. The
                        one thing Freckles knew that he could do was to sing. The Duncans heard him
                        coming a mile up the corduroy and could not believe their senses. Freckles
                        unfastened the box from his belt, and gave Mrs. Duncan and the children all
                        the eatables it contained, except one big piece of cake that he carried to
                        the sweet-loving Duncan. He put the flowers back in the box and set it up
                        among his books. He did not say anything, but they understood it was not to
                        be touched.
                    
                    "Thae's Freckles' flow'rs," said
                        a tiny Scotchman, "but," he added cheerfully,
                        "it's oo- sweeties!"
                    Freckles slowly coloured as he took Duncan's cake and started for
                        the swamp. While Duncan ate, Freckles told him something about the evening,
                        as well as he could find words to express himself, and the big man was so
                        amazed he kept forgetting the treat in his hands.
                    Then Freckles mounted his wheel and began a spin that terminated only when
                        the biggest Plymouth Rock in Duncan's coop saluted a new day, and
                        long lines of light reddened the east. As he rode he sang, and as he sang he
                        worshipped, but the god he tried to glorify was a dim and faraway mystery.
                        The Angel was warm flesh and blood.
                    Every time he passed the little bark-covered imprint on his trail he
                        dismounted, removed his hat, solemnly knelt and laid his lips on the
                        impression. Because he kept no account himself, only the laughing-faced old
                        man of the moon knew how often it happened; and as from the beginning, to
                        the follies of earth that gentleman ever has been kind.
                    
                    With the near approach of dawn Freckles tuned his last note. Wearied almost
                        to falling, he turned from the trail into the path leading to the cabin for
                        a few hours' rest.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII
                    WHEREIN BLACK JACK CAPTURES FRECKLES
                            AND THE ANGEL CAPTURES JACK
                    
                    AS Freckles left the trail from the swale near the south
                        entrance, four large, muscular men rose up and swiftly and carefully entered
                        the swamp by the wagon-road. Two of them carried a big saw, the third, coils
                        of rope and wire, and all of them were heavily armed. They left one man on
                        guard at the entrance. The other three made their way through the darkness
                        as best they could, and were soon at Freckles' room. He had left
                        the swamp on his wheel from the west trail. They counted on his returning on
                        the wheel and circling the east line before he came there.
                    A little below the west entrance to Freckles' room, Black Jack
                        stepped into the swale and, binding a wire tight about a scrub oak, carried
                        it below the waving grasses, stretched it taut across  the trail, and fastened it to a tree in the swamp. Then he
                        obliterated all signs of his work, and arranged the grass over the wire
                        until it was so completely covered that only minute examination would reveal
                        it. They entered Freckles' room with coarse oaths and jests. In a
                        few moments, his specimen case with its precious contents was rolled back
                        into the swamp, and the saw was eating into one of the finest trees of the
                        Limberlost.
                    The first report from the man on watch was that Duncan had driven away to the
                        south camp; the second, that Freckles was coming. The man watching was sent
                        back to see on which side the boy turned into the path; and, as they had
                        expected, he took the east. He was a little tired and his head was rather
                        stupid, for he had not been able to sleep as he had hoped, but he was very
                        happy. Though he watched until his eyes ached, he could see no sign of any
                        one's having entered the swamp.
                    He called a cheery greeting to all his chickens. At Sleepy Snake Creek he
                        almost fell from his wheel with surprise: the saw-bird was surrounded by
                        four lanky youngsters clamouring for breakfast.  The father was strutting with all the importance of a drum-major.
                    "No use to expect the Bird Woman to-day," said Freckles;
                        "but now wouldn't she be jumping for a chance at
                        that?"
                    As soon as Freckles was well down the east line, the watch was posted below
                        the room on the west to report his coming. It was but a few moments before
                        the signal came. Then the saw stopped, and the rope was brought out and
                        uncoiled near a sapling. Wessner and Black Jack crowded to the very edge of
                        the swamp a little above the wire and crouched, waiting.
                    They heard Freckles before they saw him. He came clipping down the line at a
                        good pace, and as he rode he was singing softly:
                    
                        "Oh, do you love,
                        Oh, say you love"
                    
                    He got no further. The sharply driven wheel struck the tense wire and bounded
                        back. Freckles shot over the handle-bar and coasted down the trail on his
                        chest. As he struck, Black Jack and Wessner were upon him. Wessner caught
                        off an old felt hat and clapped it over Freckles' mouth, while
                        Black Jack twisted his arms back of him,  and
                        they rushed him into his room. Almost before he realised that anything had
                        happened, he was trussed up to a tree and securely gagged.
                    Then three of the men resumed work on the tree. The other followed the path
                        Freckles had worn to Little Chicken's tree, and presently he
                        reported that the wires were down and two teams with the loading apparatus
                        coming to take out the timber. All the time the saw was slowly eating,
                        eating into the big tree.
                    Wessner went out to the trail and removed the wire. He picked up
                        Freckles' wheel, which did not seem to be injured, and leaned it
                        against the bushes so that if any one did pass on the trail he would not see
                        it doubled up in the swamp-grass.
                    Then he came and stood in front of Freckles and laughed in devilish hate. To
                        his own amazement, Freckles found himself looking fear in the face, and
                        marvelled that he was not afraid. Four to one! The tree half-way eaten
                        through, the wagons coming up the inside roadhe, bound and gagged! The men
                        with Black Jack and Wessner had belonged to McLean's gang when last
                        he had heard of them, but who those coming with the wagons might be he could
                        not guess.
                    
                    If they secured that tree, McLean lost its value, lost his wager, and lost
                        his faith in him. The words of the Angel hammered in his ears: "Oh,
                        Freckles, do watch closely!"
                    And the saw ate on.
                    When the tree was down and loaded, what would they do? Pull out, and leave
                        him there to report them? It was not to be hoped for. The place had always
                        been lawless. It could mean but one thing.
                    A mist swept before his eyes, and his head swam. Was it only last night that
                        he had worshipped the Angel in a delirium of happiness? And now, what?
                        Wessner, released from a turn at the saw, walked over to the flower-bed and,
                        tearing up a handful of rare ferns by the roots, started toward Freckles.
                        His intention was obvious. Black Jack stopped him with an oath.
                    "You see here, Dutchy," he bawled, "mebby you
                        think you'll wash his face with that, but you won't. A
                        contract's a contract. We agreed to take out these trees and leave
                        him for you to dispose of whatever way you please, provided you shut him up
                        eternally on this deal. But I'll not see a tied man tormented by a
                        fellow that he can  lick up the ground with,
                        loose, and that's flat. It raises my gorge to think what
                        he'll get when we're gone, but you needn't think
                        you're free to begin before. Don't you lay a hand on him
                        while I'm here! What do you say, boys?"
                    "I say yes," growled one of McLean's latest
                        deserters. "What's more, we're a pack of fools to
                        risk the dirty work of silencing him. You had him face down and you on his
                        back; why the hell didn't you cover his head and roll him back into
                        the bushes until we were gone? When I went into this, I didn't
                        understand that he was to see all of us and that there was murder on the
                        ticket. I'm not up to it. I don't mind lifting the trees
                        we came for, but I'm cursed if I want blood on my hands."
                    "Well, you ain't going to get it," bellowed Jack.
                        "You fellows only contracted to help me get out my marked trees. He
                        belongs to Wessner, and it ain't in our deal what happens to
                        him."
                    "Yes, and if Wessner finishes him safely, we are practically in for
                        murder as well as stealing the trees; and if he don't, all
                        hell's to pay. I think you've made a damnable bungle of
                        this thing; that's what I think!"
                    
                    "Then keep your thoughts to yourself," roared Jack.
                        "We're doing this, and it's all planned safe and
                        sure. As for killing that buckcome to think of it, killing is what he needs.
                        He's away too good for this world of woe, anyhow. I tell you,
                        it's all safe enough. His dropping out won't be the only
                        secret the old Limberlost has never told. It's too dead easy to
                        make it look like he helped take the timber and then cut. Why, he's
                        played right into our hands. He was here at the swamp all last night, and
                        back again in an hour or so. When we get our plan worked out, even old fool
                        Duncan won't lift a finger to look for his carcass. We
                        couldn't have him going in better shape."
                    "You just bet," said Wessner. "I owe him all
                        he'll get, and be damned to you, but I'll pay!"
                        he snarled at Freckles.
                    So it was killing, then. They were not only after this one tree, but many,
                        and with his body it was their plan to kill his honour. To brand him a
                        thief, like them, before the Angel, the Bird Woman, the dear Boss, and the
                        DuncansFreckles' body sagged against the ropes in sick despair.
                    
                    Then he gathered his forces and thought swiftly. There was no hope of
                        McLean's coming. They had chosen a day when they knew he had a big
                        contract at the south camp. The Boss could not possibly come before
                        to-morrow, and there would be no to-morrow for him. Duncan was on his way to
                        the south camp, and the Bird Woman had said she would come as soon as she
                        could. After the fatigue of the party, it was useless to expect her and the
                        Angel to-day, and God save them from coming! The Angel's father had
                        said they would be as safe in the Limberlost as at home. What would he say
                        to this?
                    The sweat broke out on Freckles' forehead. He tugged at the ropes
                        whenever he felt that he dared, but they were passed about the tree and his
                        body several times, and knotted on his chest. He was helpless. There was no
                        hope, no help. And after they had conspired to make him appear a runaway
                        thief to his loved ones, what was it that Wessner would do to him?
                    Whatever it was, Freckles lifted his head and resolved that he would bear in
                        mind what he had once heard the Bird Woman say. He would go out bonnily.
                        Never would he let them see, if  he grew
                        afraid. After all, what did it matter what they did to his body if by some
                        scheme of the devil they could compass his disgrace?
                    Then hope suddenly rose high in Freckles' breast. They could not do
                        that! The Angel would not believe. Neither would McLean. He would keep up
                        his courage. Kill him they could; dishonour him they could not.
                    Yet, summon all the fortitude he might, that saw eating into the tree rasped
                        his nerves worse and worse. With whirling brain he gazed off into the
                        Limberlost, searching for something, he knew not what, and in blank horror
                        found his eyes fastened on the Angel. She was quite a distance away, but he
                        could see her white lips and wide, angry eyes.
                    Last week he had taken her and the Bird Woman across the swamp over the path
                        he followed in going from his room to the chicken tree. He had told them
                        last night that the butterfly tree was on the line close by this path. In
                        figuring on their not coming that day, he failed to reckon with the
                        enthusiasm of the Bird Woman. They must be there for the study, and the
                        Angel had risked crossing the swamp in  search
                        of him. Or was there something in his room they needed? The blood surged in
                        his ears like the roar of the Limberlost in the wrath of a storm.
                    He looked again, and it had been a dream. She was not there. Had she been?
                        For his life, Freckles could not tell whether he had really seen the Angel,
                        or whether his strained senses had played him the most cruel trick of all.
                        Or was it not the kindest? Now he could die with the vision of her lovely
                        face fresh with him.
                    "Thank you for that, oh, God!" whispered Freckles.
                        "'Twas more than kind of you, and I don't
                        'spose I ought to be wanting anything more; but if you can, oh, I
                        wish I could know before this ends, if 'twas me
                        mother"Freckles could not even whisper the words, for he hesitated
                        a second and ended"if 'twas me mother did it!"
                    "Freckles! Freckles! Oh, Freckles!" the voice of the Angel
                        came calling. Freckles swayed forward and wrenched at the rope until it cut
                        deeply into his body.
                    "Hell!" cried Black Jack. "Who is that? Do you
                        know?"
                    Freckles nodded.
                    
                    Jack whipped out a revolver and snatched the gag from Freckles'
                        mouth.
                    "Say quick, or it's up with you right now, and whoever that
                        is with you!"
                    "It's the girl the Bird Woman takes about with
                        her," whispered Freckles through dry, swollen lips.
                    "They ain't due here for five days yet," said
                        Wessner. "We got on to that last week."
                    "Yes," said Freckles; "but I found a tree covered
                        with butterflies and things along the east line yesterday that I thought the
                        Bird Woman would want extra, and I went to town for her last night. She said
                        she'd come soon, but she didn't say when. They must be
                        here. I take care of the girl while the Bird Woman works. Untie me quick
                        until she is gone. I'll try to send her back, and then you can go
                        on with your dirty work."
                    "He ain't lying," volunteered Wessner. "I
                        saw that tree covered with butterflies and him watching around it when we
                        were spying on him yesterday."
                    "No, he leaves lying to your sort," snapped Black Jack, as
                        he undid the rope and pitched it  across the
                        room. "Remember that you're covered every move you make,
                        my buck," he cautioned.
                    "Freckles! Freckles!" came the Angel's impatient
                        voice, nearer and nearer.
                    "I must be answering," said Freckles, and Jack nodded.
                        "Right here!" he called, and to the men: "You go
                        on with your work, and remember one thing yourselves. The work of the Bird
                        Woman is known all over the world. This girl's father is a rich
                        man, and she is all he has. If you offer hurt of any kind to either of them,
                        this world has no place far enough away nor dark enough for you to be hiding
                        in. Hell will be easy to what any man will get that touches either of
                        them!"
                    "Freckles, where are you?" demanded the Angel.
                    Soul-sick with fear for her, Freckles went toward her and parted the bushes
                        that she might enter. She came through without apparently giving him a
                        glance, and the first words she said were: "Why have the gang come
                        so soon? I didn't know you expected them for three weeks yet. Or is
                        this some special tree that Mr. McLean needs to fill an order right
                        now?"
                    Freckles hesitated. Would a man dare lie to 
                        save himself? No. But to save the Angelsurely that was different. He opened
                        his lips, but the Angel was capable of saving herself. She walked in among
                        them, exactly as if she had been raised in a lumber-camp, and never waited
                        for an answer.
                    "Why, your specimen case!" she cried. "Look!
                        Haven't you noticed that it's tipped over? Set it
                        straight, quickly!"
                    A couple of the men stepped out and carefully righted the case.
                    "There! That's better," she said.
                        "Freckles, I'm surprised at your being so careless. It
                        would be a shame to break those lovely butterflies for one old tree! Is that
                        a valuable tree? Why didn't you tell us last night you were going
                        to take a tree out this morning? Oh, say, did you put your case there to
                        protect that tree from that stealing old Black Jack and his gang? I bet you
                        did! Well, if that wasn't bright? What kind of a tree is
                        it?"
                    "It's a golden oak," said Freckles.
                    "Like those they make dining-tables and sideboards out of?"
                    "Yes."
                    
                    "My! How interesting!" she cried. "I
                        don't know a thing about timber, but my father wants me to learn
                        about just everything I can. I am going to ask him to let me come here and
                        watch you until I know enough to boss a gang myself. Do you like to cut
                        trees, gentlemen?" she asked of the men, with angelic sweetness.
                    Some of them looked foolish and some grim, but one managed to say that they
                        did.
                    Then the Angel's eyes turned full on Black Jack, and she gave the
                        most beautiful little start of astonishment.
                    "Oh! I almost thought that you were a ghost!" she cried.
                        "But I see now that you are really and truly. Were you ever in
                        Colorado?"
                    "No," said Jack.
                    "I see now you aren't the same man," said the
                        Angel. "You know, we were in Colorado last year, and there was a
                        cowboy that was the handsomest man anywhere about. He'd come riding
                        into town every night, and all we girls just adored him! Oh, but he was a
                        beauty! I thought at first glance you were really he, but I see now he
                        wasn't nearly so tall nor so broad as you, and only half as
                        handsome."
                    
                    The men burst into a roar of laughter and Jack flushed crimson. The Angel
                        joined in the laugh.
                    "Well, I'll leave it to you! Isn't he
                        handsome?" she challenged. "As for that cowboy's
                        face, it couldn't be compared with yours. The only trouble with you
                        is that your clothes are spoiling you. It's the dress those cowboys
                        wear that makes half their looks. If you were properly dressed, you could
                        break the heart of the prettiest girl in the county."
                    With one accord the other men all focussed on Black Jack, and for the first
                        time realised that he was a superb specimen of manhood, for he stood six
                        feet tall, was broad, well-rounded, and had dark, even skin, big black eyes,
                        and full red lips.
                    "I'll tell you what!" exclaimed the Angel.
                    "I'd just love to see you on horseback. Nothing sets a
                        handsome man off so splendidly. Do you ride?"
                    "Yes," said Jack, and his eyes were burning on the Angel as
                        if he would fathom the depths of her soul.
                    "Well," said the Angel winsomely, "I know what I
                        just wish you'd do. I wish you would let your hair grow a little
                        longer. Then wear a blue  flannel shirt a
                        little open at the throat, a red tie, and a broad-brimmed felt hat, and ride
                        past my house of evenings. I'm always at home then, and almost
                        always on the veranda, and, oh! but I would like to see you! Will you do
                        that for me?"
                    It is impossible to describe the art with which the Angel put the question.
                        She was looking straight into Jack's face, coarse and hardened with
                        sin and careless living, which was now taking on a wholly different
                        expression. The evil lines of it were softening and fading out under her
                        clear gaze. A dull red flamed into his bronze cheeks, and his eyes were
                        growing brightly tender.
                    "Yes," he said, and the glance he shot at the men was of
                        such a nature that no one saw fit even to change countenance.
                    "Oh, goody!" she cried, tilting on her toes.
                        "I'll ask all the girls to come to see, but they
                        needn't stick in! We can get along without them, can't
                        we?"
                    Jack leaned toward her. He was the charmed, fluttering bird, and the Angel
                        was the snake.
                    "Well, I rather guess!" he cried.
                    The Angel drew a deep breath and looked him over rapturously.
                    
                    My! but you're tall!" she gurgled. "Do you suppose
                        I will ever grow to reach your shoulders?"
                    She stood on tip toe and measured the distance with her eyes. Then she fell
                        into timid confusion, and her glance sought the ground.
                    "I wish I could do something," she half whispered.
                    Jack seemed to increase an inch in height.
                    "What?" he asked hoarsely.
                    "Lariat Bill used always to have a bunch of red flowers in his shirt
                        pocket, and the red lit up his dark eyes and olive cheeks and made him
                        splendid. May I put a bunch of red flowers on you?"
                    Freckles' eyes popped and he wheezed for breath. He wished that the
                        earth would open and swallow him up. Was he dead or alive? Since his Angel
                        had set eyes on Black Jack she had never even glanced his way. Was she
                        completely bewitched? Would she throw herself at the man's feet
                        before them all? Couldn't she give him even one thought?
                        Hadn't she seen that he was gagged and bound? Did she truly think
                        that these were McLean's men? Why, she couldn't! It was
                        only a few days ago that she had been near enough this man and angry enough
                             with him to peel the hat from his head
                        with a shot! Suddenly a thing she had jestingly said to him one day came
                        back with startling force: "You must take angels on
                        trust." Of course you must! She was his Angel. She must have seen!
                        His life, and what was far worse, her own, was in her hands. There was
                        nothing he could do but trust her. Surely she was working out some plan.
                    The Angel knelt beside his flower-bed and recklessly tore up by the roots a
                        big bunch of foxfire.
                    "These stems are so tough and sticky," she said.
                        "I can't break them. Loan me your knife," she
                        ordered Freckles.
                    As she reached for the knife, her back was for one second toward the men. She
                        looked into his eyes and deliberately winked.
                    She severed the stems, tossed the knife back to Freckles, and walking up to
                        Jack, laid the flowers over his heart.
                    Freckles broke into a sweat of agony. He had said she would be safe in a herd
                        of howling savages. Would she? If Black Jack even made a motion toward
                        touching her, Freckles knew that from somewhere he would muster the strength
                        to kill  him. He mentally measured the
                        distance to where his club lay and set his muscles for a spring. But noby
                        the splendour of God! The big fellow was baring his head with a hand that
                        was unsteady. The Angel pulled one of the long silver pins from her hat and
                        fastened her flowers securely.
                    Freckles was quaking. What was to come next? What was she planning, and, oh!
                        did she understand the danger of her presence among those men and the real
                        necessity for action?
                    As the Angel stepped back from Jack, she turned her head to one side and
                        peered up at him, just as Freckles had seen the little yellow fellow do on
                        the line a hundred times, and said: "Well, that does the trick!
                        Isn't that fine? See how it sets him off, boys? Don't you
                        forget the tie is to be red, and the first ride soon. I can't wait
                        very long. Now I must go. The Bird Woman will be ready to start, and she
                        will come here hunting me next, for she is busy to-day. What did I come here
                        for anyway?"
                    She glanced inquiringly about, and several of the men laughed. Oh, the
                        delight of it! She had forgotten her errand for him! Jack had a  second increase in height. The Angel glanced
                        helplessly about as if seeking a clue. Then her eyes fell, as if by
                        accident, on Freckles, and she cried, "Oh, I know now! It was those
                        magazines the Bird Woman promised you. I came to tell you that we put them
                        under the box where we hide things, at the entrance to the swamp as we came
                        in. I knew I should need my hands crossing the swamp, so I hid them there.
                        You'll find them at the same old place."
                    Then Freckles spoke.
                    "It's mighty risky for you to be crossing the swamp
                        alone," he said. "I'm surprised that the Bird
                        Woman would be letting you try it. I know it's a little farther,
                        but it's begging you I am to be going back by the trail.
                        That's bad enough, but it's far safer than by the
                        swamp."
                    The Angel laughed merrily.
                    "Oh, stop your nonsense!" she cried. "I'm
                        not afraid! Not in the least! The Bird Woman didn't want me to try
                        following a path that I'd been over only once, but I was sure I
                        could do it, and I'm rather proud of the performance. Now,
                        don't you go babying! You know I'm not afraid!"
                    
                    "No," said Freckles gently, "I know
                        you're not; but that has nothing to do with the fact that your
                        friends are afraid for you. On the trail you can see your way a bit ahead,
                        and you've all the world a better chance if you meet a
                        snake."
                    Then Freckles had an inspiration. He turned to Jack imploringly.
                    "You tell her!" he pleaded. "Tell her to go by the
                        trail. She will for you."
                    The implication of this statement was so gratifying to Black Jack that he
                        seemed again to expand and take on increase before their very eyes.
                    "You bet!" exclaimed Jack. And to the Angel: "You
                        better take Freckles' word for it, Miss. He knows the old swamp
                        better than any of us, except me, and if he says 'go by the
                        trail,' you'd best do it."
                    The Angel hesitated. She wanted to recross the swamp and try to get away on
                        the horse. She knew Freckles would brave any danger to save her crossing the
                        swamp alone, but she really was not afraid, and the trail added over a mile
                        to the walk. She knew the path. She meant to run for dear life the instant
                        she felt herself out of their  sight, and
                        tucked in the folds of her blouse was a fine little 32-calibre revolver that
                        her father had presented her for her share in what he was pleased to call
                        her millinery exploit. One last glance at Freckles showed her the agony in
                        his eyes, and immediately she imagined he had some other reason. She would
                        follow the trail.
                    "All right," she said, giving Jack a killing glance.
                        "If you say so, I'll go back by the trail to please you.
                        Good-bye, everybody."
                    She lifted the bushes and started for the entrance.
                    "You damned fool! Stop her!" growled Wessner.
                        "Keep her till we're loaded, anyhow. You're
                        playing hell! Can't you see that when this thing is found out,
                        there she'll be to ruin all of us. If you let her go, every man of
                        us has got to cut, and some of us will be caught sure."
                    Jack sprang forward. Freckles' heart muffled up in his throat. The
                        Angel seemed to divine Jack's coming. She was humming a little
                        song. She deliberately stopped and began pulling the heads of the curious
                        grasses that grew all about her. When she straightened, she took a step
                        backward and called, "Ho! Freckles, the Bird  Woman wants that natural history pamphlet returned. It belongs
                        to a set she is going to have bound. That's one of the reasons we
                        put it under the box. You be sure to get them as you go home to-night, for
                        fear it rains or gets damp with the heavy dews."
                    "All right," said Freckles, but it was in a voice that he
                        had never heard before.
                    Then the Angel turned and shot a parting glance at Jack, and she was
                        overpoweringly human and bewitchingly lovely.
                    "You won't forget that ride and the red tie," she
                        half asserted, half questioned.
                    Jack lost his head entirely. Freckles was his captive, but he was the
                        Angel's, soul and body. His face wore the holiest look it had ever
                        known as he softly re-echoed Freckles' "All
                        right." With her head held well up, the Angel walked slowly away,
                        and Jack wheeled on the men.
                    "Drop your damned staring and saw wood," he shouted
                        "Don't you know anything at all about how to treat a
                        lady?"
                    It might have been a question which of the crones that crouched over
                        green-wood fires in the cabins of Wildcat Hollow, eternally sucking a  corncob pipe and stirring the endless kettles
                        of stewing coon and opossum, had taught him to do even as well as he had by
                        the Angel.
                    The men muttered and threatened among themselves, but they fell to working
                        with a vengeance. Some one suggested that a man be sent to follow the Angel
                        and to watch her and the Bird Woman leave the swamp. Freckles'
                        heart died within him, but Jack was in a delirium and past all caution.
                    "Yes," he sneered. "Mebby all of you had better
                        give over on the saw and run after the girl. I guess not! Seems to me I got
                        the favours. I don't see no bouquets on the rest of you! If anybody
                        follows her, I do, and I'm needed here among such a pack of idiots.
                        There's no danger in that baby face. She wouldn't give me
                        away! You double and work like forty, and me and Wessner will take the axes
                        and begin to cut in on the other side."
                    "What about the noise?" asked Wessner.
                    "No difference about the noise," answered Jack.
                        "She took us to be from McLean's gang, slick as grease.
                        Make the chips fly!"
                    So all of them attacked the big tree.
                    
                    Freckles sat down on one of his benches and waited. In their haste to get the
                        tree down and loaded, so that the teamsters could start with it and leave
                        them free to attack another, they had forgotten to rebind him.
                    The Angel was on the trail and safely started. The cold perspiration made
                        Freckles' temples clammy and ran in little streams down his chest.
                        It would take her a little more time to go by the trail, but her safety was
                        Freckles' sole thought in urging her to go that way. He tried to
                        figure on how long it would take her to walk to the carriage. He wondered if
                        the Bird Woman had unhitched. He followed the Angel every step of the way.
                        He figured on when she would cross the path of the clearing, pass the deep
                        pool where his "find out" frog lived, cross Sleepy Snake
                        Creek, and reach the carriage.
                    He wondered what she would say to the Bird Woman, and how long it would take
                        them to pack and get started. He knew now that they would understand, and
                        the Angel would try to get the Boss there in time to save his wager. She
                        could never do it, for the saw was over half through, and Jack and Wessner
                        cutting into the opposite side  of the tree.
                        It looked as if they could get at least that tree out before McLean could
                        come, and if they did he lost his wager.
                    When it was down, would they rebind him and leave him for Wessner to wreak
                        his insane vengeance on, or would they take him along to the next tree and
                        dispose of him when they had stolen all the timber they could? Jack had said
                        that he should not be touched until he left. Surely he would not run all
                        that risk for one tree, when he had many others of far greater value marked.
                        Freckles felt that he had some hope to cling to now, but he found himself
                        praying that the Angel would hurry.
                    Once Jack came over to Freckles and asked if he had any water. Freckles rose
                        and showed him where he kept his drinking-water. Jack drank in great gulps,
                        and, as he passed the bucket back, he said: "When a man's
                        got a chance of catching a fine girl like that, he ought not be mixed up in
                        any dirty business. I wish to God I was out of this!"
                    Freckles answered heartily: "I wish I was, too!"
                    Jack stared at him a minute and then broke into a roar of rough laughter.
                    
                    "Blest if I blame you," he said. "But you had your
                        chance! We offered you a fair thing and you gave Wessner his answer. I
                        ain't envying you when he gives you his."
                    "You're six to one," answered Freckles.
                        "It will be easy enough for you to be killing the body of me, but,
                        curse you all, you can't blacken me soul!"
                    "Well, I'd give anything you could name if I had your
                        honesty," said Jack.
                    When the mighty tree fell, the Limberlost shivered and screamed with the
                        echo. Freckles groaned in despair, but the gang took heart. That was so much
                        accomplished. Now, if they could get it out quickly, they knew where to
                        dispose of it safely, with no questions asked. Before the day was over, they
                        could remove three others, all fit for veneer and worth far more than this.
                        Then they would leave Freckles to Wessner and scatter for safety, with more
                        money in their possession than they had ever dreamed of.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII
                    WHEREIN THE ANGEL
                            RELEASES FRECKLES, AND THE CURSE OF BLACK JACK
                            FALLS UPON HER
                    
                    ON the line, the Angel gave one backward glance at Black
                        Jack, to see that he had returned to his work. Then she gathered her skirts
                        above her knees and leaped forward on the run. In the first three yards she
                        passed Freckles' wheel. Instantly she imagined that was why he had
                        insisted on her coming by the trail. She seized it and sprang on. The saddle
                        was too high, but she was an expert rider and could catch the pedals as they
                        came up. She stopped at Duncan's cabin long enough to get out the
                        wrench and lower the saddle, telling Mrs. Duncan the while what was
                        happening and that she must follow the east trail until she found the Bird
                        Woman, to tell her she had gone for McLean, and to leave the swamp as
                        quickly as possible.
                    
                    Even with her fear for Freckles to spur her, Sarah Duncan blanched and fell
                        shivering at the idea of facing the Limberlost. The Angel looked her in the
                        eyes.
                    "No matter how afraid you are, you have to go," she said.
                        "If you don't, the Bird Woman will go to
                        Freckles' room, hunting me, and they will have trouble with her. If
                        she isn't told to get out at once, they may follow me, and finding
                        I'm gone, do some terrible thing to Freckles. I can't
                        gothat's flatfor if they caught me, then there'd be no one
                        to go for help. You don't suppose they are going to take out the
                        trees they're after and then leave Freckles to run and tell? They
                        are going to murder the boy; that's what they are going to do. You
                        run, and run for life! For Freckles' life! You can ride back with
                        the Bird Woman."
                    The Angel saw Mrs. Duncan started, and then flew.
                    Those awful miles of corduroy! Would they never end? She did not dare use the
                        wheel too roughly, for if it broke she could never get there on time afoot.
                        Where her way was impassable for the wheel, she jumped off, and, pushing it
                             beside her or carrying it, she ran as
                        fast as she could. The day was fearfully warm. The sun poured down with the
                        fierce baking heat of August. The bushes claimed her hat, and she did not
                        stop for it.
                    Where it was at all possible, the Angel mounted and pounded over the corduroy
                        again. She was panting for breath and almost worn out before she reached the
                        level pike. She had no idea how long she had beenand only two miles covered.
                        She leaned over the bars, almost standing on the pedals, racing with all the
                        strength in her body. The blood surged in her ears and her head swam, but
                        she kept a straight course, and rode and rode. It seemed to her that she was
                        standing still, and that the trees and houses were racing by her.
                    Once a farmer's big dog rushed angrily out into the road and she
                        swerved until she almost fell, but she regained her balance, and, setting
                        her muscles, pedalled as hard as she could. At last she lifted her head.
                        Surely it could not be over a mile more. She had covered two of corduroy and
                        at least three of pike, and it was only six in all.
                    
                    She was reeling in the saddle, but she gripped the bars with new energy, and
                        raced desperately. The sun blistered down on her bare head and hands. Just
                        when she was choking with dust, and almost prostrate with heat and
                        exhaustioncrash, she ran into a broken bottle. Snap! went the tire; the
                        wheel swerved and pitched over. The tired Angel rolled into the thick yellow
                        dust of the road and lay still.
                    From afar, Duncan began to notice a strange, dust-covered object in the road,
                        as he headed for town with the first load of the day's felling. He
                        clucked to the bays and hurried them all he could. As he neared the Angel,
                        he saw it was a woman and a broken wheel. He was beside her in an instant.
                        He carried her to a shaded fence-corner, stretched her on the grass, and
                        wiped the dust from the lovely face all dirt-streaked, crimson, and bearing
                        a startling whiteness about the mouth and nose.
                    Wheels were common enough. Many of the farmers' daughters owned and
                        rode them, but he knew these same farmers' daughters; this face was
                        a stranger's. He glanced at the Angel's tumbled clothing,
                        the silkiness of her hair, with  its pale
                        satin ribbon, and noticed that she had lost her hat. His lips tightened in
                        an ominous quiver. He left her and picked up the wheel: as he had surmised,
                        he knew it. This, then, was Freckles' Swamp Angel. There was
                        trouble in the Limberlost, and she had broken down in racing for McLean.
                        Duncan turned the bays into a fence-corner, tied one of them, unharnessed
                        the other, fastened up the trace-chains, and hurried to the nearest
                        farmhouse to send help to the Angel. He found a woman, who took a bottle of
                        camphor, a jug of water, and some towels, and started on the run.
                    Then Duncan put the bay to speed and raced for camp.
                    The Angel, left alone, lay still for a second, then she shivered and opened
                        her eyes. She saw that she was on the grass and the broken wheel beside her.
                        Instantly she realised that some one had carried her there and gone for
                        help. She sat up and looked about. Her eyes fell on the load of logs and the
                        one horse. Somebody was riding for help for her!
                    "Oh, poor Freckles!" she wailed. "They may be
                        killing him by now. Oh, how much time have I wasted?"
                    
                    She hurried to the other bay, and her fingers flew as she set him free.
                        Snatching up a big blacksnake whip that lay on the ground. she caught the
                        hames, stretched along the horse's neck, and, for the first time,
                        the fine, big fellow felt on his back the quality of the lash that Duncan
                        was accustomed to crack over him. He was frightened, and ran at top speed.
                    The Angel passed a wildly waving, screaming woman on the road, and a little
                        later a man riding as if he, too, were in great haste. The man called to
                        her, but she only lay lower and slashed away harder with the whip. Soon the
                        feet of the man's horse sounded farther and farther away.
                    At the south camp they were loading a second -agon, when
                        the Angel thundered up on one of Duncan's bays, lathered and
                        dripping, and cried: "Everybody go to Freckles! There are thieves
                        stealing trees, and they have him bound. They're going to kill
                        him!"
                    She wheeled the horse and headed back for the Limberlost. The alarm sounded
                        over camp. The gang were not unprepared for it. McLean sprang to
                        Nellie's back and raced after the Angel. As they passed Duncan, he
                        wheeled and followed.  Soon the pike was an
                        irregular procession of bare-backed riders, wildly driving flying horses
                        toward the Swamp.
                    The Boss rode neck-and-neck with the Angel. He repeatedly commanded her to
                        stop and fall out of line, until he remembered that he would need her to
                        lead him to Freckles. Then he gave up and rode beside her, for she was
                        sending the bay at as sharp a pace as the other horses could keep and hold
                        out. He could see that she was not hearing him. He glanced back and saw that
                        Duncan was near. There was something terrifying in the look of the big man,
                        and the way he sat his beast and rode. It would be a sad day for the man on
                        whom Duncan's wrath broke. There were four others close behind him,
                        and the pike filling up with the rest of the gang; so McLean took heart and
                        raced beside the Angel. Over and over he asked her where the trouble was,
                        but he could get no reply. She only gripped the hames, leaned along the
                        bay's neck, and slashed away with the blacksnake. The steaming
                        horse, with crimson nostrils and heaving sides, stretched out and ran for
                        home with all the speed there was in it.
                    
                    When they passed the cabin, the Bird Woman's carriage was there and
                        Mrs. Duncan in the door wringing her hands, but the Bird Woman was nowhere
                        to be seen. The Angel sent the bay along the path, and turned into the trail
                        to the west, and the men bunched and followed her. When she reached the
                        entrance to Freckles' room, there were four men with her, and two
                        more very close behind. She slid from the horse, and, snatching the little
                        revolver from her breast, darted for the bushes. McLean caught them back,
                        and, with drawn weapon, pressed up beside her. There they stopped in
                        astonishment.
                    The Bird Woman blocked the entrance. Over a small limb lay her revolver, and
                        it was trained at short range on Black Jack and Wessner, who stood with
                        their hands above their heads.
                    Freckles, with the blood streaming down his face, from an ugly cut in his
                        temple, was gagged and bound to the tree again, and the rest of the men were
                        gone. Black Jack was raving like a maniac, and when they looked closer it
                        was only the left arm that he raised. His right, with the hand shattered,
                        hung helpless at his side, and his revolver lay at Freckles' feet.
                        Wessner's weapon  was still in his
                        belt, and beside him lay Freckles' club.
                    Freckles' face was of stony whiteness, with colourless lips, but in
                        his eyes was the strength of undying courage. McLean pushed past the Bird
                        Woman, crying: "Hold steady on them for just one minute
                        more!"
                    He snatched the revolver from Wessner's belt, and stooped for
                        Jack's.
                    At that instant the Angel rushed in. She tore the gag from Freckles, and,
                        seizing the rope knotted on his chest, she tugged at it desperately. Under
                        her fingers it gave way, and she hurled it to McLean. The men were crowding
                        in, and Duncan seized Wessner. As the Angel saw Freckles stand out, free,
                        she reached her arms to him and pitched forward. A fearful oath burst from
                        the lips of Black Jack. To have saved his life, Freckles could not have
                        avoided the glance of triumph he gave Jack, as he folded his Angel in his
                        arms and stretched her on the mosses.
                    The Bird Woman cried out sharply for water as she ran to them. Somebody
                        sprang for that, and another to break open the case for brandy.
                    
                    As McLean rose from binding Wessner, there was a cry that Jack was escaping.
                    He was already well into the swamp, working for its densest part and running
                        in great leaping bounds. Every man that could be spared plunged after him.
                    Other members of the gang arriving, they were sent to follow the tracks of
                        the wagons. The teamsters had driven out of the west entrance, and, crossing
                        the swale, had taken the same route the Bird Woman and the Angel had before
                        them. There had been ample time for the drivers to reach the road, after
                        which they could take any one of four directions. Traffic was heavy, and
                        lumber-wagons were passing almost constantly, in all directions; so the men
                        turned back and joined the more exciting hunt for a man. Other members of
                        the gang were arriving, also farmers from along the pike and travellers
                        attracted by the disturbance.
                    Watches were set all about the trail at no great intervals, and they
                        patrolled the line and roads through the swamp all that night, with lighted
                        torches, and the next day. McLean headed as thorough a search as he felt
                        could be made of  one side, while Duncan
                        covered the other; but Black Jack could not be found. Spies were set about
                        his home, in Wildcat Hollow, to ascertain if he reached there or aid was
                        sent in any direction to him; but it was soon clear that his relatives were
                        ignorant of his whereabouts, and themselves searching for him.
                    Great is the elasticity of youth. A hot bath and a sound night's
                        sleep renewed Freckles' strength, and it needed but little more to
                        work the same result with the Angel. Freckles was on the trail early the
                        next morning. Beside a crowd of people anxious to witness Jack's
                        capture, he found four stalwart guards, one at each turn. In his heart he
                        was compelled to admit that he was glad to have them there. Near noon,
                        McLean turned his party over to join Duncan, and, taking Freckles, drove to
                        town to see how it fared with the Angel. McLean visited a greenhouse and
                        bought an armload of its finest products; but Freckles would have none of
                        them. He would carry his message in a glowing mass of the
                        Limberlost's first golden-rod.
                    The Bird Woman received them, and in answer to their eager inquiries, said
                        that the Angel was  in no way seriously
                        injured, only so bruised and shaken that their doctor had ordered her to lie
                        quietly for the day. Though she was sore and stiff, they were having hard
                        work to keep her in bed. Her callers sent up their flowers with their
                        grateful regards, and the Angel promptly returned word that she wanted to
                        see them.
                    She reached both hands to McLean. "What if one old tree is gone? You
                        don't care, sir? You feel that Freckles has kept his trust as
                        nobody ever did before, don't you? You won't forget all
                        those long first days of fright that you told us of, the fearful cold of
                        winter, the rain, heat, and lonesomeness, and the brave days, and, lately,
                        nights, too, and let him feel that his trust is broken? Oh, Mr.
                        McLean," she begged, "say something to him! Do something
                        to make him feel that it isn't for nothing he has watched and
                        suffered it out with that old Limberlost. Make him see how great and fine it
                        is, and how far, far better he has done than you or any of us expected!
                        What's one old tree, anyway?" she burst out passionately.
                    "I was thinking before you came. Those two other men were rank big
                        cowards. They were  scared for their lives. If
                        they were the drivers, I wager you gloves against gloves they never took
                        those logs out to the pike. My coming upset them. Before you feel bad any
                        more, you go look and see if they didn't run out of courage the
                        minute they left Wessner and Black Jack, and dump that timber and go on the
                        run. I don't believe they ever had the grit to drive out with it in
                        daylight. Go see if they didn't figure on going out the way we did
                        the other morning, and you'll find the logs before you strike the
                        road. They never risked taking them into the open, when they got away and
                        had time to think. Of course they didn't!
                    "And, then, another thing. You haven't lost your wager! It
                        will never be claimed, because you made it with a stout, dark, red-faced man
                        that drives a bay and a gray. He was right back of you, Mr. McLean, when I
                        came up to you yesterday. He went deathly white and shook on his feet when
                        he saw those men would likely be caught. Some one of them was something to
                        him, and you can just spot him for one of the men at the bottom of your
                        troubles, and urging those other younger fellows on to steal from you.
                    
                    suppose he'd promised to divide. You settle with him, and that
                        business will stop."
                    She turned to Freckles. "And you be the happiest man alive, because
                        you have kept your trust. Go look where I tell you and you'll find
                        the logs. I can just see about where they are. When they go up that steep
                        little hill, into the next woods after the corn-field, why, they could
                        unloose the chains and the logs would roll off the wagons themselves. Now,
                        you go see; and, Mr. McLean, you do feel that Freckles has been brave and
                        faithful? You won't love him any the less even if you
                        don't find the logs"
                    The Angel's nerve gave way and she burst into a flood of tears.
                        Freckles couldn't bear it. He fairly ran from the room, with the
                        tears streaming from his own eyes; but McLean took the Angel out of the Bird
                        Woman's arms, and kissed her brave little face, and stroked her
                        hair, and petted her into quietness before he left.
                    As they drove back to the swamp, McLean so earnestly seconded all that the
                        Angel had said that he soon had the boy feeling much better.
                    "Freckles, your Angel has a spice of the devil in her, but
                        she's superb! You needn't spend any  time questioning or bewailing anything she does. Just worship
                        blindly, my boy. By heaven! she's sense, courage, and beauty for
                        half a dozen girls," said McLean.
                    "It's altogether right you are, sir," affirmed
                        Freckles, heartily. After a little he added, "There's no
                        question but the series is over now."
                    "Don't think it!" answered McLean. "The
                        Bird Woman is working for success, and success along any line is not won by
                        being scared out. She will be back on the usual day, and, ten to one, the
                        Angel will be with her. They are made of pretty stern stuff, and they
                        don't scare worth a cent. Just before I left, I told the Bird Woman
                        it would be safe; and it will. You may do your usual walking, but those four
                        guards are there to stay. They are under your orders absolutely. They are
                        prohibited from firing on any bird or molesting anything that you want to
                        protect, but there they stay, and this time it is useless for you to say one
                        word. I have listened to your pride too long. You are too precious to me,
                        and that voice of yours is too precious to the world to run any more
                        risks."
                    "I am sorry to have anything spoil the series,"  said Freckles, "and I'd
                        love them to be coming, the Angel especial, but it can't be.
                        You'll have to tell them so. You see, Jack would have been ready to
                        stake his life she meant what she said and did to him. When the teams pulled
                        out, Wessner seized me, and he and Jack went to quarrelling over whether
                        they should finish me then or take me on to the next tree they were for
                        felling. Between them they were pulling me about and hurting me bad. Wessner
                        wanted to get at me right then, and Jack said he shouldn't be
                        touching me till the last tree was out and all the rest of them gone.
                        I'm belaving Jack really hated to see me done for in the beginning;
                        and I think, too, he was afraid if Wessner finished me then he'd
                        loose his nerve and cut, and they couldn't be managing the felling
                        without him; anyway, they were hauling me round like I was already past all
                        feeling, and they tied me up again. To keep me courage up, I twits Wessner
                        about having to tie me and needing another man to help handle me. I told him
                        what I'd do to him if I was free, and he grabs up me own club and
                        lays open me head with it. When the blood came streaming, it set Jack
                        raving, and he  cursed and damned Wessner for
                        a coward and a softy. Then Wessner turned on Jack and gives it to him for
                        letting the Angel make a fool of him. Tells him she was just playing with
                        him, and beyond all manner of doubt she'd gone for you, and there
                        was nothing to do on account of his cursed foolishness but finish me, get
                        out, and let the rest of the timber go, for likely you was on the way right
                        then. And it drove Jack plum crazy.
                    "I don't think he was for having a doubt of the Angel
                        before, but then he just raved. He grabbed out his gun and turned on
                        Wessner. Sprang! It went out of his fist, and the order comes,
                        'Hands up!' Wessner reached for kingdom come like he was
                        expecting to grab hold and pull himself up. Jack puts up what he has left.
                        Then he leans over to me and tells me what he'll do to me if he
                        ever gets out of there alive. Then, just like a snake hissing, he spits out
                        what he'll do to her for playing him. He did get away, and, with
                        his strength, that wound in his hand won't be bothering him long.
                        He'll do to me just what he said, and when he hears it really was
                        she that went for you, why, he'll keep his oath about her.
                    
                    "He's lived in the swamp all his life, sir, and everybody
                        says it's always been the home of cut-throats, outlaws, and
                        runaways. He knows its most secret places as none of the others.
                        He's alive. He's in there now, sir. Some way
                        he'll keep alive. If you'd seen his face, all scarlet with
                        passion, twisted with pain, and black with hate, and heard him swearing that
                        oath, you'd know it was a sure thing. I ain't done with
                        him yet, and I've brought this awful thing on her."
                    "And I haven't begun with him yet," said McLean,
                        setting his teeth. "I've been away too slow and too easy,
                        believing there'd be no greater harm than the loss of a tree.
                        I've sent for a couple of first-class detectives. We will put them
                        on his track, and rout him out and rid the country of him. I don't
                        propose for him to stop either our work or our pleasure. As for his being in
                        the swamp now, I don't believe it. He'd find a way out
                        last night, in spite of us. Don't you worry! I am at the helm now,
                        and I'll see to that gentleman in my own way."
                    "I wish to my soul you had seen and heard him!" said
                        Freckles, unconvinced.
                    They entered the swamp, taking the route 
                        followed by the Bird Woman and the Angel. They really did find the logs,
                        almost where the Angel had predicted they would be. McLean went on to the
                        south camp and had an interview with Crowen that completely convinced him
                        that the Angel was correct there also. But he had no proof, so all he could
                        do was to discharge the man, though his guilt was so apparent that he
                        himself offered to withdraw the wager.
                    Then McLean sent for a pack of bloodhounds and put them on the trail of Black
                        Jack. They clung to it, on and on, into the depths of the swamp, leading
                        their followers through what had been considered impassable and impenetrable
                        ways, and, finally, around near to the west entrance and out into the swale.
                        Here the dogs bellowed, raved, and fell over each other in their excitement.
                        They raced back and forth from swamp to swale, but follow the scent farther
                        they would not, even though cruelly driven. At last their owner attributed
                        their actions to snakes, and, as they were very valuable dogs, gave over the
                        effort to urge them on. So that all they really established was the fact
                        that Black Jack had eluded their vigilance and crossed the trail  sometime in the night. He had escaped to the
                        swale, from which he probably crossed the corduroy, and, reaching the lower
                        end of the swamp, had found friends. At any rate, it was a great relief to
                        feel that he was not in the swamp, and it raised the spirits of every man on
                        the line, though many of them expressed regrets that he who was undoubtedly
                        most to blame should escape, and Wessner, who in the beginning was only his
                        tool, be left to punishment.
                    But for Freckles, with Jack's fearful oath ringing in his ears,
                        there was neither rest nor peace. He was almost ill when the day for the
                        next study of the series arrived and he saw the Bird Woman and the Angel
                        coming down the corduroy. The guards of the east line he left at their
                        customary places, but those of the west he brought over and placed, one near
                        Little Chicken's tree, and the other at the carriage. He was firm
                        about the Angel's remaining in the carriage, which he did not offer
                        to have unhitched. He went with the Bird Woman for the picture, which was
                        the easiest matter it had been at any time yet, for the simple reason that
                        the placing of the guards and the unusual movement  about the swamp had made Mr. and Mrs. Chicken nervous, and
                        they had not carried Little Chicken the customary amount of food. Freckles,
                        in the anxiety of the last few days, had neglected him, and he had been so
                        hungry, much of the time, that when the Bird Woman held up a sweetbread,
                        although he had started for the recesses of the log at her coming, he
                        changed his mind; with slightly opened beak, he waited anxiously for the
                        treat, and gave a study of great value, showing every point about his head
                        and his wing-and tail-development as well.
                    When the Bird Woman proposed to look for other subjects about the line,
                        Freckles went so far as to tell her that Jack had made fearful threats
                        against the Angel. He implored her to take the Angel home and keep her under
                        unceasing guard until Jack was located. He wanted to tell her all about it,
                        but he knew how dear the Angel was to her, and he dreaded to burden her with
                        his fears when they might prove groundless. He let her go, and then blamed
                        himself fiercely that he had done so
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV
                    WHEREIN FRECKLES
                            NURSES A HEART-ACHE AND BLACK JACK DROPS
                            OUT
                    
                    "MCLEAN," said Mrs.
                        Duncan, as the Boss paused to greet her in passing the cabin, "do
                        you know that Freckles hasna been in bed the last five nights, and all
                        he's eaten in that many days ye could pack into a pint
                        cup?"
                    "Why, what does the boy mean?" demanded McLean.
                        "There's no necessity for his being on guard, with the
                        watch I've set on the line. I had no idea he was staying down
                        there."
                    "He's no' there," said Mrs. Duncan.
                        "He goes somewhere else. He leaves on his wheel juist after
                        we're abed and rides in about cock-crow or a little earlier, and
                        he's looking like death and nothing short of it."
                    "But, where does he go?" asked McLean, in astonishment.
                    "I'm no given to bearing tales out of school,"  said Sarah Duncan, "but in this case
                        I'd tell ye if I could. What the trouble is I dinna ken. If it is
                        no' stopped, he's in for dreadful sickness, and I thought
                        ye could find out and help him. He's in sair trouble;
                        that's all I know."
                    McLean sat brooding as he stroked Nellie's neck.
                    At last he said: "I suspect I understand. At any rate, I think I can
                        find out. Thank you for telling me."
                    "Ye'll no' need telling, once ye clap your eyes on
                        him," prophesied Mrs. Duncan. "His face is all a
                        glist'ny yellow, and he's peaked as a starving caged
                        bird."
                    McLean rode down to the Limberlost, and, stopping in the shade, sat waiting
                        for Freckles, whose hour for passing the foot of the lease was near.
                    Along the north line came Freckles, fairly staggering. When he turned east
                        and reached Sleepy Snake Creek, sliding through the swale like the long
                        black snake for which it was named, he sat down on the bridge and closed his
                        burning eyes, but they would not stay shut. As if pulled by wires, the heavy
                        lids flew open, and the outraged  nerves and
                        muscles of his body danced, twitched, and tingled.
                    He bent forward and idly watched the limpid little stream flowing beneath his
                        feet. Stretching back into the swale, it came creeping between an
                        impenetrable wall of magnificent wild flowers, vines, and ferns. Milk-weed,
                        golden-rod, iron-wort, fringed gentians, cardinal flowers, and turtle-head
                        stood on the very edge of the creek, and every flower of them grew a double
                        in the water. Wild clematis crowned with snow the heads of trees scattered
                        here and there along the bank.
                    From afar the creek looked like murky, dirty water. Really it was clear and
                        sparkling. The tinge of blackness was gained from its bed of muck showing
                        through its transparent current. He could see small and wonderfully marked
                        fish. What became of them when the creek spread into the swamp? For one
                        thing, they would make mighty fine eating for the family of that
                        self-satisfied old blue heron.
                    Freckles sat so still that presently the brim of his hat was covered with
                        snake-feeders, rasping their crisp wings and singing as they rested. Some of
                        them settled on the club, and one on his 
                        shoulder. He was so quiet, and feathers, fur, and gauze were so accustomed
                        to him, that all about the swale they went on with their daily life and
                        forgot he was there.
                    The heron family were wading about the mouth of the creek. Freckles idly
                        wondered whether the nerve-racking rasps they occasionally emitted indicated
                        domestic felicity or a raging quarrel. He could not decide. A sheitpoke,
                        with flaring crest, went stalking across a bare space near the
                        creek's mouth. A stately brown bittern waded out into the
                        clear-flowing water, lifting his feet high at every step, and setting them
                        down gingerly, as if he dreaded wetting them, and, with slightly parted
                        beak, stood eagerly watching about him for worms. Behind him were some
                        mighty trees of the swamp above, and below the bank glowed a solid wall of
                        golden-rod.
                    No wonder the ancients had chosen yellow as the colour to represent victory,
                        for the fierce, conquering hue of the sun was in it. They had done well,
                        too, in choosing purple as the colour of royalty. It was a dignified,
                        compelling colour, and in its warm tone there was a hint of blood.
                    It was the Limberlost's hour to proclaim  her sovereignty and triumph. Everywhere she flaunted her
                        yellow banner and trailed the purple of her mantle, that was paler in the
                        thistle-heads, took on strength in the first opening asters, and glowed and
                        burned in the ironwort.
                    He gazed into her damp, mossy recesses where high-piled riven trees fell to
                        decay under coats of living green, where dainty vines swayed and clambered,
                        and here and there a yellow leaf, fluttering down, presaged the coming of
                        winter. His love of the swamp laid hold of him and shook him with its force.
                    Compellingly beautiful was the Limberlost, but cruel withal; for back in
                        there bleached the uncoffined bones of her victims, and she had missed
                        cradling him, oh! so narrowly.
                    He shifted restlessly, and the movement sent the snake-feeders skimming. The
                        hum of life swelled and roared in his strained ears. Some small turtles,
                        that had climbed on a log to sun, splashed clumsily into the water.
                        Somewhere about the timber of the bridge a bloodthirsty little frog cried
                        sharply, "Keel'im!
                        Keel'im!"
                    Freckles muttered, "It's worse than that Black Jack swore
                        to do to me, little fellow."
                    
                    A muskrat waddled down the bank and swam for the swamp, its pointed nose
                        riffling the water into a shining trail in its wake.
                    Then, just below the turtle-log, a dripping silver-gray head, with shining
                        eyes, was cautiously lifted, and Freckles' hand slid around to his
                        revolver. Higher and higher came the head, a long, heavy, fur-coated body
                        rose, now half, now three-fourths out of the water. Freckles looked at his
                        shaking hand and doubted, but he gathered his forces, the shot rang out, and
                        the otter lay still. He hurried down and tried to lift it. He could scarcely
                        muster strength to carry it to the bridge. The consciousness that he really
                        could not go farther with it made Freckles realise the fact that he was well
                        up to the limit of human endurance. He could bear it little, if any, longer.
                        Every hour the dear face of the Angel wavered before him, and behind it the
                        awful distorted image of Black Jack, as he swore to the punishment he would
                        mete out to her. He must either go to the lower camp to McLean, or else to
                        town and find her father. Which should he do? He was almost a stranger, and
                        the Angel's father might not be so much impressed with what he  said as he would if McLean went to him. Then
                        he remembered that McLean had said he would come that morning. Freckles had
                        never forgotten before. He hurried along the east trail as fast as his
                        tottering legs would carry him.
                    He stopped when he came to the first guard, and telling him of his luck,
                        asked him to go for the otter and carry it up to the cabin, as he was
                        anxious to meet McLean.
                    Freckles passed the second guard without seeing him, and hurried up to the
                        Boss. He took off his hat, wiped his forehead, and stood silent under the
                        eyes of McLean.
                    The Boss was dumbfounded. Mrs. Duncan had led him to expect that he would
                        find Freckles in a bad way, but this was almost deathly. The fact was
                        apparent that the boy scarcely knew what he was doing. His eyes had a
                        glazed, farsighted look in them, that wrung the heart of the man that loved
                        him. Without a thought of preliminaries, McLean leaned in the saddle and
                        drew Freckles up to him.
                    "My poor lad!" he said. "My poor, dear lad; tell
                        me, and we will try to right it!"
                    Freckles had twisted his fingers in Nellie's  mane. At the kind words his face dropped on McLean's
                        thigh and he shook with a nervous chill. McLean gathered him closer and
                        waited.
                    When the guard came up with the otter, McLean without a word motioned him to
                        lay it down and go back.
                    "Freckles," said McLean at last, "will you tell
                        me, or must I set to work in the dark and try to find the trouble?"
                    "Oh, I want to tell you! I must tell you, sir," shuddered
                        Freckles. "I cannot be bearing it the day out alone. I was coming
                        to you when I remimbered you would be here."
                    He lifted his face and gazed off across the swale, with his jaws set hard a
                        minute, as if gathering his forces. Then he spoke.
                    "It's the Angel, sir," he said.
                    Instinctively McLean's grip on him tightened, and Freckles looked up
                        into the Boss's face in wonder.
                    "I tried hard the other day," said Freckles, "and
                        I couldn't seem to make you see. It's only that there
                        hasn't been an hour, waking or sleeping, since the day she parted
                        the bushes and looked into me room, that the face of her hasn't
                        been 
                        
                            "There hasn't been an hour that the
                                face of her hasn't been before me in all the tinderness,
                                beauty, and mischief of it."
                        
                         before me in all the tinderness, beauty, and
                        mischief of it. She talked to me friendly like. She trusted me entirely to
                        take right care of her. She helped me with things about me books. She
                        traited me like I was born a gintleman, and shared with me like I was of her
                        own blood. She walked the streets of the town with me before her friends,
                        with all the pride of a queen. She forgot herself and didn't mind
                        the Bird Woman, and run big risks to help me out that first day, sir. This
                        last time she walked into that gang of murderers, took their leader, and
                        twisted him to the will of her. She outdone him and raced the life almost
                        out of her trying to save me.
                    "Since I can remimber, whatever the thing was that happened to me in
                        the beginning has been me curse. I've been bitter, hard, and
                        smarting under it hopelessly. She came by, and found me voice, and put hope
                        of life and success like other men into me in spite of it."
                    Freckles held up his maimed arm.
                    "Look at it, sir!" he said. "A thousand times
                        I've cursed it, hanging there helpless. She took it on the street,
                        before all the people, just as if she didn't see that it was a
                        thing to hide and  shrink from. Again and
                        again I've had the feeling with her, if I didn't entirely
                        forget it, that she didn't see it was gone and I must pull her
                        sleeve and be pointing it out to her. Her touch on it was so sacred-like, at
                        times since I've caught meself looking at the awful thing near like
                        I was proud of it, sir. If I was born your son she couldn't be
                        treating me more as her equal, and she can't help knowing you
                        ain't truly me father. Nobody can know the ugliness or the
                        ignorance of me better than I do, and all me lack of birth, home, relatives,
                        and money, and what's it all to her?"
                    Freckles stepped back from McLean, squared his shoulders, and with a royal
                        lift of his head looked straight into the Boss's eyes.
                    "You saw her in the beautiful little room of her, and you
                        can't be forgetting how she begged and pleaded with you for me. She
                        touched me body, and 'twas sanctified. She laid her lips on me
                        brow, and 'twas sacrament. Nobody knows the height of her better
                        than me. Nobody's studied my depths closer. There's no
                        bridge for the great distance between us, sir, and clearest of all,
                        I'm for realising it. But she risked terrible things  when she came to me among that gang of
                        thieves. She wore herself past bearing to save me from such an easy thing as
                        death! Now, here's me, a man, a big, strong man, and letting her
                        live under that fearful oath, so worse than any death 'twould be
                        for her, and lifting not a finger to save her. I cannot bear it, sir.
                        It's killing me by inches! Black Jack's hand may not have
                        been hurt so bad. Any hour he may be creeping up behind her! Any minute the
                        awful revenge he swore to be taking may in some way fall on her, and I
                        haven't even warned her father. I can't stay here doing
                        nothing another hour. The five nights gone I've watched under her
                        windows, but there's the whole of the day. She's her own
                        horse and little cart, and's free to be driving about the town and
                        country as she pleases. If any evil comes to her through Black Jack, it
                        comes from her angel-like goodness to me. Somewhere he's hiding!
                        Somewhere he is waiting his chance! Somewhere he is reaching out for her! I
                        tell you I cannot, I dare not be bearing it longer!"
                    "Freckles, be quiet!" said McLean, his eyes humid and his
                        voice quivering with the pity of it all. "Believe me, I did not
                        understand. I  know the Angel's
                        father well. I will go to him at once. I have transacted business with him
                        for the last three years. I will make him see! I am only just beginning to
                        realise your agony, and the real danger there is for the Angel. Believe me,
                        I will see that she is fully protected every hour of the day and night until
                        Jack is located and disposed of. And I promise you further, that if I fail
                        to move her father or make him understand the danger, I will maintain a
                        guard over her until Jack is caught. Now will you go bathe, drink some milk,
                        go to bed, and sleep for hours, and then be my old brave, bright boy
                        again?"
                    "Yis," said Freckles simply.
                    But McLean could see the flesh was twitching on the boy's bones.
                    "What was it the guard brought there?" McLean asked in an
                        effort to distract Freckles' thoughts.
                    "Oh!" Freckles said, glancing where the Boss pointed,
                        "I forgot it! 'Tis an otter, and fine past believing, for
                        this warm weather. I shot it at the creek this morning. 'Twas a
                        good shot, considering. I expected to miss."
                    Freckles picked up the animal and started 
                        toward McLean with it, but Nellie pricked up her dainty little ears, danced
                        out into the swale, and snorted with fright. Freckles dropped the otter and
                        ran to her head.
                    "For pity's sake, get her on the trail, sir," he
                        begged. "She's just about where the old king rattler
                        crosses to go into the swampthe old buster Duncan and I have been telling
                        you of. I haven't a doubt but it was the one Mother Duncan met.
                        'Twas down the trail there, just a little farther on, that I found
                        her, and it's sure to be about yet."
                    McLean slid from Nellie's back, led her into the trail farther down
                        the line, and tied her to a bush. Then he went to examine the otter. It was
                        a rare, big specimen, with exquisitely fine, long, silky hair.
                    "What do you want to do with it, Freckles?" asked McLean,
                        as he stroked the soft fur lingeringly. "Do you know that it is
                        very valuable?"
                    "I was for almost praying so, sir," said Freckles.
                        "As I saw it coming up the bank I thought this: Once somewhere in a
                        book there was a picture of a young girl, and she was just a breath like the
                        beautifulness of the Angel. Her hands were in a  muff as big as her body, and I thought it was so pretty. I think she was
                        some queen, or the like. Do you suppose I could have this skin tanned and
                        made into such a muff as that?an enormous big one, sir?"
                    "Of course you can," said McLean. "That's
                        a fine idea and it's easy enough. We must box and express the
                        otter, cold storage, by the first train. You stand guard a minute and
                        I'll tell Hall to carry it up to the cabin. I'll put
                        Nellie to Duncan's rig, and we'll drive to town and call
                        on the Angel's father. Then we'll start the otter while it
                        is fresh, and I'll write your instructions later. It would be a
                        mighty fine thing for you to give to the Angel as a little reminder of the
                        Limberlost before it is despoiled, and as a souvenir of her trip for
                        you."
                    Freckles lifted a face with a glow of happy colour creeping into it and eyes
                        lighting with a former brightness. Throwing his arms about McLean, he cried:
                        "Oh, how I love you! Oh, I wish I could make you know how I love
                        you!"
                    McLean strained him to his breast.
                    "God bless you, Freckles," he said. "I do know!
                        We're going to have some good old 
                        times out of this world together, and we can't begin too soon.
                        Would you rather sleep first, or get a bite of lunch and have the drive with
                        me, and then rest? I don't know but sleep will come sooner and
                        deeper to take the ride and have your mind set at ease before you lie down.
                        Suppose you go."
                    "Suppose I do," said Freckles, with a glimmer of the old
                        light in his eyes and newly found strength to shoulder the otter. Together
                        they turned into the swale.
                    McLean noticed and spoke of the big black chickens.
                    "They've been hanging round out there for several days
                        past," said Freckles. "I'll tell you what I think
                        it means. I think the old rattler has killed something too big for him to
                        swallow, and he's keeping guard and won't let me chickens
                        have it. I'm just sure, from the way the birds have acted out there
                        all summer, that it is the rattler's den. You watch them now. See
                        the way they dip and then rise, frightened like!"
                    Suddenly McLean turned on him with blanching face.
                    "Freckles!" he cried.
                    
                    "You think it's Jack!" shuddered Freckles. He
                        dropped the otter, caught up his club, and plunged into the swale. Reaching
                        for his revolver, McLean followed. The chickens circled higher at their
                        coming, and the big snake lifted his head and rattled angrily. It sank in
                        sinuous coils at the report of McLean's revolver, and together he
                        and Freckles stood beside Black Jack. His fate was evident and most
                        horrible.
                    "Come," said the Boss at last. "We don't
                        dare touch him. We will get a sheet from Mrs. Duncan and tuck over him, to
                        keep these swarms of insects away, and set Hall on guard, while we go for
                        the officers."
                    Freckles' lips closed resolutely. He deliberately thrust his club
                        under Black Jack's body, and, raising him, rested it on his knee.
                        He pulled a long silver pin from the front of the dead man's shirt
                        and sent it spinning out into the swale. Then he gathered up a few crumpled
                        bright flowers and dropped them into a pool far away.
                    "My soul is sick with the horror of this thing," said
                        McLean, as he and Freckles drove toward town. "I can't
                        understand how Jack dared risk creeping through the swale, even in
                        desperation.  No one knew its dangers better
                        than he. And why did he choose the rankest, muckiest place to cross the
                        swamp?"
                    "Don't you think, sir, it was because it was on a line with
                        the Limberlost south of the corduroy. The grass was tallest there, and he
                        counted on those willows to screen him. Once he got among them, he would
                        have been safe to walk by stooping. If he'd made it past that
                        place, he'd been sure to get out."
                    "Well, I'm as sorry for Jack as I know how to be,"
                        said McLean, "but I can't help feeling relieved that our
                        troubles are over, for now they are. With so dreadful a punishment for Jack,
                        Wessner safe in jail, and warrants out for the others, we can count on their
                        going away and staying. As for any one else, I don't think they
                        will care to attempt stealing my timber after the experience of these men.
                        There is no one else about here with Jack's fine ability in
                        woodcraft. He was an expert."
                    "Did you ever hear of any one else that ever tried to locate any
                        trees excepting him?" asked Freckles.
                    "No, I never did," said McLean. "I am sure  there was no one besides him. You see, it was
                        only with the arrival of our company that the other fellows scented good
                        stuff in the Limberlost, and tried to work in. Jack knew the swamp better
                        than any one about here. When he found there were two companies trying to
                        lease, he wanted to stand in with the one from which he could realise the
                        most. Even then he had trees marked here that he was trying to dispose of. I
                        think his sole intention in forcing me to discharge him from my gang was to
                        come up here and try to steal timber. We had no idea, when we took the
                        lease, what a gold-mine it was."
                    "That's exactly what Wessner said that first day,"
                        said Freckles eagerly. "That 'twas a
                        'gold-mine'! He said he didn't know where the
                        marked trees were, but he knew a man that did, and if I would hold off and
                        let them get the marked ones, there were a dozen they could take out in a
                        few days."
                    "Freckles!" cried McLean. "You don't mean
                        a dozen!"
                    "That's what he said, sira dozen. He said they
                        couldn't tell how the grain of all of them  would work up, of course, but they were all worth taking out,
                        and five or six were real gold-mines. This makes three they've
                        tried, so there must be nine more marked, and several of them for being just
                        fine."
                    "Well, I wish I knew which they were," said McLean,
                        "so that I could get them out first."
                    "I have been thinking," said Freckles. "I believe
                        if you will leave one of the guards on the line--say Hallthat I will begin
                        on the swamp, at the north end, and lay it off in sections, and try to hunt
                        out the marked trees. I suppose they are all marked something like that
                        first maple on the line was. Wessner mentioned another good one not so far
                        from that. He said it was best of all. I'd be having the swelled
                        head if I could find that. Of course, I don't know a thing about
                        the trees, but I could hunt for the marks. Jack was so good at it he could
                        tell some of them by the bark, but all he wanted to take that we've
                        got on to so far have just had a deep chip cut out, rather low down, and
                        where the bushes were thick over it. I believe I could be finding some of
                        them."
                    "Good head!" said McLean. "We will do  that. You may begin as soon as you are
                        rested. And about things you come across in the swamp, Frecklesthe most
                        trifling little thing that you think the Bird Woman would want, take your
                        wheel and go after her at any time. I'll leave two men on the line,
                        so that you will have one on either side, and you can come and go as you
                        please. Have you stopped to think of all we owe her, my boy?"
                    "Yis; and the Angelwe owe her a lot, too," said Freckles.
                        "I owe her me life and honour. It's lying awake nights
                        I'll have to be trying to think how I'm ever to pay her
                        up."
                    "Well, begin with the muff," suggested McLean.
                        "That should be fine."
                    He bent down and ruffled the rich fur of the otter lying at his feet.
                    "I don't exactly see how it comes to be in such splendid
                        fur in summer. Their coats are always finest in cold weather, but this could
                        scarcely be improved. I'll wire Coopers to be watching for it. They
                        must have it fresh. When it's tanned we won't spare any
                        expense in making it up. It ought to be a royal thing, and somehow I think
                        it will exactly suit the Angel. I 
                        can't think of anything that would look nicef on her."
                    "Neither can I," agreed Freckles heartily. "When I
                        get to the city there's one other thing, if I've the money
                        after the muff is finished."
                    He told McLean of Mrs. Duncan's desire for a hat like the
                        Angel's. He hesitated a little in the telling, and kept sharp watch
                        on McLean's face. When he saw the Boss's eyes were full of
                        comprehension and sympathy, he loved him anew, for as ever McLean was quick
                        to understand. Instead of laughing, he said: "I guess
                        you'll have to let me in on that, too. You mustn't be
                        selfish, you know. I'll tell you what we'll do. Get it for
                        Christmas. I'll be home then, and we can send a box. You get the
                        hat. I'll add a dress and wrap. You get Duncan a hat and gloves.
                        I'll send him a big overcoat, and we'll put in a lot of
                        little stuff for the babies. Won't that be fun?"
                    Freckles fairly shivered with delight.
                    "That would be away too serious for fun," he said.
                        "That would be heavenly. How long will be?"
                    He fell to counting up the time, and McLean 
                        deliberately set himself to encourage Freckles and keep his thoughts off the
                        dark times of the last few days, for he had been overwrought and needed
                        quiet and rest.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV
                    WHEREIN FRECKLES AND
                        THE ANGEL TRY TAKING A PICTURE, AND LITTLE
                            CHICKEN FURNISHES THE SUBJECT
                    
                    A WEEK later everything at the Limberlost was precisely as
                        it had been before the tragedy, except the case in Freckles' room
                        now rested on the stump of the newly felled tree. Enough of the vines were
                        left to cover it prettily, and every vestige of the havoc of a few days
                        before was gone. The new guards were patrolling the trail. Freckles was
                        roughly laying off the swamp in sections and searching for marked trees. In
                        that time he had found one deeply chipped and the chip cunningly replaced
                        and tacked in. It promised to be quite rare, so he was jubilant. He also
                        found so many subjects for the Bird Woman that her coming was of almost
                        daily occurrence, and the hours he spent with her and the Angel were nothing
                        less than golden.
                    
                    The Limberlost was now arrayed like the Queen of Sheba in all her glory. The
                        first frosts of autumn had bejewelled her crown in flashing topaz, ruby, and
                        emerald. About her feet trailed the purple of her garments, and in her hand
                        was her golden sceptre. Everything was at full tide. It seemed as if nothing
                        could grow lovelier, and it was all standing still a few weeks, waiting
                        coming destruction.
                    The swamp was palpitant with life. Every pair of birds that had flocked to it
                        in the spring was now multiplied by from two to ten. The young were tame
                        from Freckles' tri-parenthood, and so plump and sleek that they
                        were quite as beautiful as their elders, even if in many cases they lacked
                        their brilliant plumage. It was the same story of increase everywhere. There
                        were chubby little ground-hogs scudding along the trail. There were cunning
                        baby coons and opossums peeping from hollow logs and trees. Young muskrats
                        followed their parents across the lagoons.
                    If you could come upon a family of foxes that had not yet disbanded, and see
                        the young playing with a wild duck's carcass that their mother had
                             brought, and note the pride and
                        satisfaction in her eyes as she lay at one side guarding them, it would be a
                        picture not to be forgotten. Freckles never tired of studying the devotion
                        of a fox-mother to her babies. To him, whose early life had been so
                        embittered by continual proof of neglect and cruelty in human parents toward
                        their children, the love of these furred and feathered folk of the
                        Limberlost was even more of a miracle than to the Bird Woman and the Angel.
                    The Angel was wild about the baby rabbits and squirrels. Earlier in the
                        season, when the young were still very small, it had so happened that at
                        times Freckles could give into her hands one of these little ones. Then it
                        was pure joy to stand back and watch her heaving breast, flushed cheek, and
                        shining eyes. Hers were such lovely eyes. Freckles had discovered lately
                        that they were not so dark as he had thought them at first, but that the
                        length and thickness of lash, by which they were shaded, made them appear
                        darker than they really were. They were forever changing. Now sparkling and
                        darkling with wit, now humid with sympathy, now burning with the fire of
                        courage, now taking on strength of colour with  ambition, now flashing indignantly at the abuse of any creature.
                    She had carried several of the squirrel and bunny babies home, and had the
                        conservatory littered with them. Her care of them was perfect. She was
                        learning her natural history from nature, and was getting much healthful
                        exercise. To her, they were the most interesting of all, but the Bird Woman
                        preferred the birds, with a close second in the butterflies.
                    Brown butterfly time had come. The outer edge of the swale was filled with
                        milkweed, and other plants beloved of them, and the air was golden with the
                        flashing satin wings of the monarch, viceroy, and argynnis. They outnumbered
                        those of any other colour three to one.
                    Among the birds it really seemed as if the little yellow fellows were in the
                        preponderance. At least, they were until the red-winged blackbirds and
                        bobolinks, that had nested on the upland, suddenly saw in the swamp the
                        garden of the Lord and came swarming by hundreds to feast and adventure upon
                        it these last few weeks before migration. Never was there a finer feast
                        spread  for the birds. The grasses were filled
                        with seeds; so, too, were weeds of every variety. Fall berries were ripe.
                        Wild grapes and black haws were ready. Bugs were creeping everywhere. The
                        muck was yeasty with worms. Insects filled the air. Nature made glorious
                        pause for holiday before her next change, and by none of the frequenters of
                        the swamp was it more appreciated than by the big black chickens.
                    They seemed to feel the new reign of peace and fulness most of all. As for
                        hunting, they didn't even have to hunt for themselves these days,
                        for the bounty now being spread before Little Chicken every day was more
                        than he could master, and he was glad to have his parents come down and
                        feast with him.
                    He was a fine, big, overgrown fellow, and his wings, with quills of jetty
                        black, gleaming with bronze, were so strong they almost lifted his body. He
                        had three inches of tail, and his beak and claws were like steel. His
                        muscles began to clamour for exercise. He raced the forty feet of his home
                        back and forth many times every hour of the day. After a few days of that,
                        he began lifting and spreading his wings, and flopping them  until the down on his back was filled with
                        elm fibre. Then he began jumping. The funny little hops, springs, and
                        sidewise bounds he gave set Freckles and the Angel, hidden out in the swamp,
                        watching him, into smothered chuckles of delight.
                    Sometimes he fell to coquetting with himself; and that was the funniest thing
                        of all, for he turned his head up, down, from side to side, and drew in his
                        chin with prinky little jerks and tilts. He would stretch his neck, throw up
                        his head, turn it to one side and smirkactually smirk, the most complacent
                        and self-satisfied smirk that any one ever saw on the face of a bird. It was
                        so comical that Freckles and the Angel told the Bird Woman of it one day.
                    When she finished her work on Little Chicken, she left them the camera all
                        ready for use, telling them they might hide back in the bushes and watch. If
                        Little Chicken came out and truly smirked, and they could squeeze the bulb
                        at just the proper moment to snap him, she would be more than delighted.
                    Freckles and the Angel quietly curled down beside a big log, and with eager
                        eyes and softest  breathing they patiently
                        waited; but Little Chicken had feasted before they told of his latest
                        accomplishment. He was tired and sleepy, so he went back into the log to
                        bed, and for an hour he never stirred.
                    They were becoming anxious, for the light would soon be gone, and they had so
                        wanted to try for the picture. At last Little Chicken lifted his head,
                        opened his beak, and gaped widely. He dozed a minute or two more. The Angel
                        said that was his beauty sleep. Then he lazily gaped again and stood up,
                        stretching and yawning. He ambled leisurely down toward the gateway, and the
                        Angel said: "Now, we may have a chance, at last"
                    "I do hope so," shivered Freckles.
                    With one accord they rose to their knees and trained their eyes on the mouth
                        of the log. The light was full and strong. Little Chicken prospected again
                        with no results. He dressed his plumage, polished his beak, and when he felt
                        fine and in full toilet he began to flirt with himself. Freckles'
                        eyes snapped and his breath sucked between his clenched teeth.
                    "He's going to do it!" whispered the Angel.
                    
                    "That will come next. You'd best give me that
                        bulb!"
                    "Yis," assented Freckles, but his eyes were fast on the log
                        and he made no move to relinquish the bulb.
                    Little Chicken nodded daintily and ruffled his feathers. He gave his head
                        sundry little sidewise jerks and rapidly shifted his point of vision. Once
                        there was the fleeting little ghost of a smirk.
                    "Now!No!" snapped the Angel.
                    Freckles leaned toward the bird. Tense as a steel trap he waited.
                        Unconsciously the hand of the Angel clasped his. He scarcely knew it was
                        there. Suddenly Little Chicken sprang straight up in the air and landed with
                        a thud. The Angel started slightly, but Freckles was immovable. Then, as if
                        in approval of his last performance, the big, overgrown baby wheeled until
                        he was more than three-quarters, almost full side toward the camera,
                        straightened on his legs, squared his shoulders, stretched his neck full
                        height, drew in his chin, and smirked his most pronounced smirk, directly in
                        the face of the lens.
                    Freckles' fingers closed on the bulb convulsively, and the
                        Angel's closed on his at the instant.  Then the Angel heaved a great sigh of relief and lifted her hands to push
                        back the damp, clustering hair from her face.
                    "How soon do you s'pose it will be finished?" came
                        Freckles' strident whisper.
                    For the first time the Angel looked at him. He was on his knees, leaning far
                        toward the log, his eyes set on the bird, the perspiration running in little
                        streams down his red, mosquito-bitten face. His hat was awry, his bright
                        hair rampant, his breast heaving with excitement, and he still gripped that
                        bulb with every ounce of strength in his body.
                    "Do you think we were for getting it?" he asked.
                    The Angel could only nod. Freckles heaved a great sigh of relief.
                    "Well, if that ain't the hardest work I ever did in me
                        life!" he exclaimed. "It's no wonder the Bird
                        Woman's for coming out of the swamp looking as if she's
                        been through a fire, a flood, and a famine, if that's what she goes
                        through day after day. But if you think we got it, why, it's worth
                        all it took, and I'm glad as ever you are, sure!"
                    
                    They put the holders in the case, carefully closed the camera, set it in
                        also, and carried it out to the road.
                    Then Freckles cut loose.
                    "Now, let's be telling the Bird Woman about it!"
                        he shouted, wildly dancing and swinging his hat.
                    "We got it! We got it! I bet a farm we got it!"
                    Hand in hand they ran for the north end of the swamp, yelling "We
                        got it" like young Comanches, and never gave a thought to what they
                        might do until a great blue-gray bird, with long neck and trailing legs,
                        rose on flapping wings and sailed out over the Limberlost.
                    The Angel went white to the lips and gripped Freckles with both hands. He
                        gulped with mortification and turned his back.
                    To carelessly frighten her subject away! It was the head crime in the Bird
                        Woman's category. She extended her hands as she rose, baked,
                        blistered, and dripping, and exclaimed, "Bless you, my children!
                        Bless you!" And it truly sounded as if she meant it.
                    "Why, why" stammered the bewildered Angel.
                    
                    Freckles hurried into the breach.
                    "You must be for blaming it every bit on me. I was thinking we got
                        Little Chicken's picture real good. I was so drunk with the joy of
                        it I lost all me senses and, 'Let's run tell the Bird
                        Woman,' says I. Like a fool I was for running, and I sort of
                        dragged the Angel along."
                    "Oh Freckles!" expostulated the Angel. "Are you
                        loony? Of course, it was all my fault! I've been with her hundreds
                        of times. I knew perfectly well that I wasn't to let anythingnot anythingscare her bird away! I was so crazy I forgot.
                        The blame is all mine, and she'll never forgive me."
                    "She will, too!" cried Freckles. "Wasn't
                        you for telling me that very first day that when people scared her birds
                        away she just killed them! It's all me foolishness, and
                        I'll never forgive meself!"
                    The Bird Woman plunged into the swale at the mouth of Sleepy Snake Creek, and
                        came wading out with a couple of cameras and dripping tripods.
                    "If you will permit me a word my infants,"  she said, "I will explain to you
                        that I have had three shots at that fellow."
                    The Angel heaved a deep sigh of relief, and Freckles' face cleared a
                        little.
                    "Two of them," continued the Bird Woman, "in the
                        rushesone facing, crest lowered; one light on back, crest flared; and the
                        last on wing, when you came up. I had been simply praying for something to
                        chase him up from that side, so that he would fly toward the camera, for he
                        had waded around until in my position I couldn't do it myself. See?
                        Behold in yourselves the answer to the prayers of the
                        long-suffering!"
                    Freckles took a step toward her.
                    "Are you really meaning that?" he asked, wonderingly.
                        "Only think, Angel, we did the right thing! She won't lose
                        her picture through the carelessness of us, when she's waited and
                        soaked nearly two hours! She's not angry with us!"
                    "Never was in a sweeter temper in my life," said the Bird
                        Woman, busily cleaning and packing the cameras.
                    Freckles took off his hat and solemnly held out his hand. With equal
                        solemnity the Angel  grasped it. The Bird
                        Woman laughed alone, for to them the situation had been too serious to
                        develop any of the elements of fun.
                    Then they loaded the carriage, and the Bird Woman and the Angel started for
                        their homes. It had been a hard time on all of them, and they were very
                        tired, but they were happy. Freckles was so happy it seemed to him that life
                        could hold no greater fulness of joy. As the Bird Woman was ready to drive
                        away he laid his hand on the lines and looked up into her face.
                    "Do you suppose we got it?" he asked, so eagerly that she
                        would have given much to be able to say yes with conviction.
                    "Why, my dear, I don't know," she said.
                        "I've no way to judge. If you made the exposure just
                        before you came to me, there was still a fine light there. If you waited
                        until Little Chicken was fa- out in the entrance, you
                        should have something good, even if you didn't catch just the
                        fleeting expression for which you hoped. Of course, I can't say
                        surely, but I think there is every reason to hope that you have it all
                        right. I will develop the plate to-night, make you a proof from it early in
                        the morning, and bring it when we come. It's  only a question of a day or two now until the gang arrives. I
                        want to work in all the studies I can before that time, for they are bound
                        to disturb the birds. Mr. McLean will need you then, and I scarcely see how
                        we are to do without you."
                    Moved by an impulse she never afterward regretted, she bent and laid her lips
                        on Freckles' forehead, kissing him gently and thanking him for his
                        many kindnesses to her in her loved work. Freckles started off walking on
                        air, and he felt inclined to keep watching behind to see if the trail were
                        not curling up and rolling down the line after him.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI
                    WHEREIN THE ANGEL
                            LOCATES A RARE TREE
                            AND DINES WITH THE GANG
                    
                    FROM afar Freckles saw them coming. The Angel was
                        standing, waving her hat. He sprang on his wheel and raced, jolting and
                        pounding, down the corduroy to meet them. The Bird Woman stopped the horse
                        and the Angel gave him the bit of print paper. Freckles leaned the wheel
                        against a tree and took the proof with eager fingers. He had never before
                        seen a study from any of his chickens. He stood staring. When he lifted his
                        face to them it was transfigured with delight.
                    "You see!" he exclaimed, and fell to gazing again.
                        "Oh, me Little Chicken!" he cried. "Oh, me
                        ilegant Little Chicken! I'd be giving all me money in the bank for
                        you!"
                    Then he thought of the Angel's muff and Mrs. Duncan's hat,
                        and added, "or, at least, all but what I'm needing bad for
                        something else. Would  you mind stopping at
                        the cabin a minute and showing this to Mother Duncan?" he asked.
                    "Give me that little book in your pocket," said the Bird
                        Woman.
                    She folded the outer edges of the proof so that it would fit into the book,
                        explaining as she did so its perishable nature in that state. Freckles went
                        hurrying on ahead, and they drove up in time to see Mrs. Duncan gazing as if
                        awestruck, and to hear her bewildered "Weel, I be drawed
                        on!"
                    Freckles and the Angel helped the Bird Woman to establish herself for a long
                        day at the mouth of Sleepy Snake Creek. Then she sent them away and waited
                        what luck would bring to her.
                    "Now, what shall we do?" inquired the Angel, who was a
                        bundle of nerves and energy.
                    "Would you like to go to me room awhile?" asked Freckles.
                    "If you don't care to very much, I'd rather
                        not," said the Angel. "I'll tell you.
                        Let's go help Mrs. Duncan get dinner and play with the baby. I love
                        a nice, clean baby."
                    They set out for the cabin. Every few minutes they stopped to investigate
                        something or to  chatter over some natural
                        history wonder. The Angel had quick eyes; she seemed to see every-thing, but
                        Freckles' were even quicker; for life itself had depended on their
                        sharpness ever since the beginning of his work at the swamp. They saw it at
                        the same time.
                    "Looks as if some one had been cutting a flag-pole," said
                        the Angel, running the toe of her shoe around the small stump, evidently cut
                        that season. "Freckles, what would anybody cut a tree as small as
                        that for?"
                    "I don't know," said Freckles.
                    "Well, but I want to know!" said the Angel.
                    "Nobody came away in here and cut it just for fun. They've
                        taken it away. Let's go back and see if we can see it anywhere
                        around there."
                    She turned, retraced her footsteps, and began eagerly searching. Freckles did
                        the same.
                    "There it is!" he exclaimed at last, "leaning just
                        as naturally against the trunk of that big maple."
                    "Yes, and leaning there has killed a patch of bark," said
                        the Angel. "See how dried up it looks?"
                    Freckles stared at her.
                    
                    "Angel!" he shouted, "I bet you it's a
                        marked tree!"
                    "Course it is!" cried the Angel. "Nobody would cut
                        that sapling and carry it away there and lean it up for nothing.
                        I'll tell you! This is one of Jack's marked trees.
                        He's climbed up there above any one's head, peeled the
                        bark, and cut into the grain enough to be sure. Then he's laid the
                        bark back and fastened it with that pole to mark it. You see,
                        there's a lot of other big maples close around it. Can you climb up
                        to that place?"
                    "Yes," said Freckles; "if I take my wading-boots
                        off, I can."
                    "Then take them off," said the Angel; "and do
                        hurry! Can't you see that I am almost crazy to know if this tree is
                        a marked one?"
                    They pushed the sapling over, and a piece of bark as big as the crown of
                        Freckles' hat fell away.
                    "I believe it looks kind of nubby," encouraged the Angel,
                        backing away, with her face all screwed into a twist in an effort to
                        intensify her vision.
                    Freckles reached the opening and then slid 
                        rapidly to the ground. He was almost breathless and his eyes were flashing.
                    "The bark's been cut clean with a knife, the sap scraped
                        away, and a big chip taken out deep. The trunk is the twistiest thing you
                        ever saw. It's full of eyes as a bird is of feathers!"
                    The Angel was dancing and shaking his hand.
                    "Oh, Freckles," she cried, "I'm so
                        delighted that you found it!"
                    "But I didn't," said the astonished Freckles.
                    "That tree isn't my find; it's yours. I forgot it
                        and was going on, and you wouldn't give up, and kept talking about
                        it, and turned back. You found it!"
                    "You'd best be looking after your reputation for truth and
                        veracity," said the Angel. "You know you saw that sapling
                        first!"
                    "Yes, after you took me back and set me looking for it,"
                        scoffed Freckles.
                    The clear, ringing echo of strongly swung axes came crashing through the
                        Limberlost.
                    "'Tis the gang!" shouted Freckles.
                        "They're clearing a place to make the camp. Let's
                        go help!"
                    "Hadn't we better mark that tree again?"  cautioned the Angel. "It's
                        away back in here. There's such a lot of them, and all so much
                        alike. We'd feel good and green if we'd find it and then
                        lose it."
                    Freckles lifted the sapling to replace it, but the Angel motioned him away.
                    "Get out your hatchet," she said. "I predict this
                        is the most valuable tree in the swamp. You found it. I'm going to
                        play that you're my knight. Now, you nail my colours on
                        it."
                    She reached up, and, pulling a blue bow from her hair, untied it and doubled
                        it against the tree. Freckles turned his eyes from her and managed the
                        fastening of it with shaking fingers. The Angel had called him her knight!
                        Dear Lord, how he loved her! She must not see his face, or surely her quick
                        eyes would read what he was fighting to hide. He did not dare lay his lips
                        on that ribbon then, but that night he would return to it. When they had
                        gone a little distance, they both looked back, and the morning breeze set
                        the bit of blue waving them a farewell.
                    They swung along together at a good pace.
                    "I am sorry about scaring the birds," said the Angel,
                        "but it's almost time for them to go any-way.  I feel dreadfully over having the swamp
                        ruined, but isn't it a delight to hear the good, honest ring of
                        those axes, instead of straining your ears for stealthy sounds?
                        Isn't it fine to go openly and freely, with nothing worse than a
                        snake or a poison vine to fear?"
                    "Ah!" said Freckles, with a long breath,
                        "it's better than you can dream, Angel. Nobody will ever
                        be guessing some of the things I've been through trying to keep me
                        promise to the Boss, and to hold out until this day. That it's come
                        with only one raw stump, and the log from that saved, and this new tree to
                        report, isn't it grand? Maybe Mr. McLean will be forgetting that
                        stump when he sees this tree, Angel!"
                    "He can't forget it," said the Angel; and in
                        answer to Freckles startled eyes she added, "because he never had
                        any reason to remember it. He couldn't have done a whit better
                        himself. My father says so. You're all right, Freckles!"
                    She reached him her hand, and, like two children, they broke into a run as
                        they came nearer the gang. They left the swamp by the west road and followed
                        the trail until they found the men. To the Angel it seemed complete chaos.
                    
                    In the shadiest spot on the west side of the line, close to the swamp and
                        very close to Freckles' room, they were cutting down bushes and
                        clearing out space for a big tent for the men's sleeping-quarters,
                        another for a dining-hall, and a board shack for the cook. The teamsters
                        were unloading, the horses were cropping leaves from the bushes; and each
                        man was doing his part toward the construction of the new Limberlost
                        quarters.
                    Freckles helped the Angel climb on a wagon load of canvas in the shade. She
                        removed her leggings, wiped her heated face, and glowed with happiness and
                        interest.
                    The gang had been carefully sifted, and McLean now felt that there was not a
                        man in it that was not trustworthy.
                    They had all heard of the Angel's plucky ride for Freckles'
                        relief, and several of them had been in the rescue party. Others, new since
                        that time, had heard the tale rehearsed in its every aspect around the
                        smudge-fires at night. Almost all of them knew the Angel by sight from her
                        trips with the Bird Woman about their leases. They all knew her father, her
                        position, and the luxuries  of her home.
                        Whatever course she had chosen with them they would scarcely have resented
                        it, but the Angel never had been known to choose a course. Her spirit of
                        friendliness was inborn and inbred. She loved everybody, and sympathised
                        with everybody. Her generosity was only limited by what she could lay her
                        hands on to give away.
                    She came down the trail, hand in hand with the red-haired, freckled
                        timber-guard whom she had worn herself past the limit of endurance to save
                        only a few weeks before, racing in her eagerness to reach them, and laughing
                        her "Good-morning, gentlemen," right and left. When she
                        was ensconced on the wagon-load of tenting, she sat on a roll of canvas like
                        a queen on her throne. There was not a man of the gang that would not have
                        fought for her. She was a living exponent of universal brotherhood. There
                        was no man among them that needed her exquisite face or dainty clothing to
                        teach him that the deference due a gentlewoman should be paid her. That
                        spirit of good-fellowship she radiated levied a special tribute of its own,
                        and it became their delight to honour and please her.
                    
                    As they raced toward the wagon"Let me tell about the tree,
                        please?" she begged Freckles.
                    "Why, sure!" said Freckles.
                    He would probably have said the same if she had proposed to cut off his head.
                        When McLean rode up, he found the Angel sitting on the wagon, flushed and
                        glowing, her hands already filled. One of the men, who was cutting a
                        scrub-oak, had carried to her a handful of crimson leaves. Another had
                        picked a bunch of delicate marsh-grass heads for her. Somebody else, in
                        taking out a bush, had found a daintily built and lined little nest, fresh
                        as when made.
                    She held up her treasures and greeted McLean, "Good morning, Mr.
                        Boss of the Limberlost!"
                    The gang shouted, and McLean bowed profoundly before her.
                    "Everybody listen!" cried the Angel, climbing a roll of
                        canvas. "I have something to say! Freckles has been guarding here
                        over a year now, and he presents the Limberlost to you, with every tree in
                        it saved; and for good measure he has just this morning located the rarest
                        one of all: the one around in from the east line, that Wessner spoke of that
                        first daynearest the one you took  out at
                        first. All together! Everybody! Hurrah for Freckles!"
                    With flushing cheeks and gleaming eyes, gaily waving the grass above her
                        head, she led in three cheers and a tiger. Freckles slipped back into the
                        swamp and held himself tight, for fear he might burst wide open with pride
                        and with his great surging, throbbing love for her.
                    The Angel subsided on the canvas and explained to McLean about the maple. The
                        Boss was mightily pleased. He took Freckles and set out to re-locate and
                        examine the tree. The Angel was interested in the making of the camp and
                        preferred to remain with the men. With her sharp eyes she was watching every
                        detail of construction; but when it came to the stretching of the
                        dining-hall canvas she proceeded to take command. The men were driving the
                        rope-pins, when the Angel rose on the wagon and, leaning forward, spoke to
                        Duncan, who was directing the work.
                    "I believe if you would swing that around a few feet farther you
                        would find it better, Mr. Duncan," she said. "That way
                        will let the hot sun in at noon. and the sides will cut off the best
                        breeze."
                    
                    "That's a fact," said Duncan, studying the
                        condition.
                    So, by shifting the pins a little, they obtained comfort for which they
                        blessed the Angel every day. When they came to the sleeping-tent, they
                        consulted her about that. She explained the general direction of the night
                        breeze and indicated the best position for the tent. Before any one knew
                        just how it happened, the Angel was standing on the wagon, directing the
                        location and construction of the cooking-shack, the erection of the crane
                        for the big boiling-pots, and the building of the store-room. She
                        superintended the laying of the floor of the sleeping-tent length-wise, so
                        that it would be easier to sweep, and suggested a new arrangement of the
                        cots that would afford all the men an equal share of night breeze. She left
                        the wagon, and, climbing up on the newly erected dining-table, advised with
                        the cook in placing his stove, table, and kitchen utensils.
                    When Freckles returned from the tree and joined in the work about the camp,
                        he caught glimpses of her enthroned on a soap-box, cleaning beans. She
                        called to him that they were invited  to stay
                        for dinner, and that they had accepted the invitation.
                    When the beans were steaming in the pot, the Angel advised the cook to soak
                        them over night the next time, so that they would cook more quickly and not
                        burst open. She was sure their cook at home did that way, and the chef of the gang thought it would be a good idea. The next
                        Freckles saw of her she was paring potatoes. A little later she arranged the
                        table.
                    She climbed on the table and swept it with a broom, instead of laying a
                        cloth; took the hatchet and hammered the worst dents out of the tin plates,
                        and nearly skinned her fingers scouring the tinware with rushes. She set the
                        plates an even distance apart, and laid the forks and spoons beside them.
                        When the cook threw away half a dozen empty fruit-cans, she gathered them up
                        and melted off the tops, though she almost blistered her face and quite
                        blistered her fingers doing it. Then she neatly covered these improvised
                        vases with the manilla paper from about the groceries, tying it on with
                        wisps of marsh-grass. These she filled with fringed gentians, blazing-star,
                        asters, goldenrod, and ferns, placing  them
                        the length of the dining-table. In one of the end cans she placed her red
                        leaves, and in the other the fancy grass. Two men, watching her, went off
                        and patted themselves and said that she was a born lady. She laughingly
                        caught up a paper bag and fitted it jauntily to her head in imitation of a
                        cook's cap. Then she ground the coffee, and beat up a couple of
                        eggs to put in, "because there is company," she gravely
                        explained to the cook. She asked that delighted individual if he did not
                        like it best that way, and he said he didn't know, because he had
                        never had a chance to taste it. The Angel said that was her case exactlyshe
                        never had, either; she wasn't allowed anything stronger than milk.
                        Then they laughed together.
                    She told the cook about camping with her father, and said that he fixed his
                        coffee that way. When the steam began to rise from the big boiler, she
                        stuffed the spout tightly with clean marsh-grass,  to keep the aroma in, placed the boiler where it would only
                        simmer, and explained why. The influence of the Angel's visit
                        lingered with the cook through the rest of his life, and the men prayed for
                        her frequent return.
                    She was having the time of her life, when McLean came back, jubilant from his
                        trip to the tree. How jubilant he only told the Angel, for he had been
                        obliged to lose faith in some trusted men of late, and had learned
                        discretion by what he suffered. He planned to begin clearing out a road to
                        the tree that same afternoon, and to set two guards every night, for it
                        promised to be a rare treasure, and he was eager to see it on the way to the
                        mills.
                    "I am coming to see it felled," cried the Angel.
                        "I feel a sort of motherly interest in that tree."
                    McLean was highly amused. He would have asked his life on the honesty of
                        either the Angel or Freckles; yet their versions of the finding of the tree
                        differed widely.
                    "Tell me, Angel," the Boss said jestingly; "I
                        think I have a right to know. Who really did locate that tree?"
                    "Freckles," she answered, promptly and emphatically.
                    
                    "But he says just as positively that it was you. I don't
                        understand."
                    The Angel's legal look flashed into her face. Her eyes grew tense
                        with earnestness. She glanced about, and seeing no towel or basin, held out
                        her hands for Sears to pour water over them. Then, using the skirt of her
                        dress to dry them, she climbed back on the wagon.
                    "I'll tell you, just word for word, how it
                        happened," she said, "and then you shall decide, and
                        Freckles and I will agree with you."
                    When she had finished her version, "Tell us, 'oh, most
                        learned judge!'" she laughingly quoted, "which of
                        us located that tree?"
                    "Blest if I know who located it!" exclaimed McLean.
                        "But I have a pretty accurate idea as to who put the blue ribbon on
                        it."
                    The Boss smiled significantly at Freckles, who had just come up, for they had
                        planned that they would instruct the company to reserve enough of the veneer
                        from that very tree to make the most beautiful dressing-table they could
                        design for the Angel's share of the discovery.
                    "What will you have for yours?" asked McLean of Freckles.
                    
                    "If it's all the same to you, I'll be taking mine
                        out in music lessonsbegging your pardonvoice culture," said
                        Freckles, with a grimace.
                    McLean laughed, for Freckles needed to see or hear but once to absorb
                        learning as the thirsty earth sucks up water.
                    The Angel gave McLean the head of the table. She took the foot, with Freckles
                        on her right, and that lumber-gang, washed, brushed, and straightened until
                        they felt unfamiliar with themselves and each other, filled the sides. That
                        imposed a slight constraint. Then, too, the men were afraid of the flowers,
                        the polished table-ware, and, above all, of the dainty grace of the Angel.
                        Nowhere do men so display lack of good breeding and culture as in dining. To
                        sprawl on the table, scoop with their knives, chew loudly, gulp coffee, and
                        duck their heads like snapping-turtles for every bite, had not been noticed
                        by them until the Angel, sitting straight as an arrow, suddenly made them
                        remember that they, too, were possessed of spines. Instinctively every man
                        at the table straightened.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII
                    WHEREIN FRECKLES
                            OFFERS HIS LIFE
                        FOR HIS LOVE
                        AND GETS
                        A BROKEN BODY
                    
                    TO reach the tree was a harder task than McLean had
                        supposed. The gang could get nearest to it on the outside to the east, but
                        after they reached the end of the east entrance there was still a mile of
                        almost impenetrable thicket, trees big and little, and bushes of every
                        variety and stage of growth. In several places the muck had to be filled in
                        to give the horses and wagons something like a solid foundation over which
                        to haul heavy loads. It was several days before they completed a road to the
                        noble, big tree and were ready to fell it.
                    When the saw was well in, Freckles began watching down the road where it met
                        the trail leading from Little Chicken's tree. He had gone to the
                        tree ahead of the gang and taken down the blue ribbon. Carefully folded, it
                        now lay over  his heart. He was promising
                        himself a good deal of comfort with that ribbon, when he should go to the
                        city next month to begin his studies and dream the summer over again. It
                        would help to make things tangible. When he was dressed as other men, and
                        about his work, he knew where he meant to home that precious bit of blue. It
                        should be his good-luck token, and he would wear it always to keep bright in
                        memory the day on which the Angel had called him her knight.
                    How he would study, and, oh, how he would sing! If he could fulfill
                        McLean's expectations, and make the Angel proud of him! If he could
                        only be a real knight!
                    He could not understand why the Angel had failed to come. She had wanted to
                        see their tree felled. She would be too late if she did not arrive soon. He
                        had told her it would be ready that morning, and she had said she would
                        surely be there. Why, of all mornings, was she late on this?
                    McLean had ridden to town. If he had been there, Freckles would have asked
                        that they delay the felling, but he hardly liked to ask the gang. He really
                        had no authority to do so  although he thought
                        the men would wait; but someway he found such embarrassment in framing the
                        request that he waited until the work was practically ended. The saw was
                        out, and the men were sending ringing blows into the felling side of the
                        tree when the Boss rode up.
                    His first word was to inquire for the Angel. When Freckles said she had not
                        yet come, the Boss at once gave orders to stop work on the tree until she
                        arrived; for he felt that she had virtually located it, and if she desired
                        to see it felled, she should. As the men stepped back, a stiff morning
                        breeze caught the top, that towered high above its fellows. There was an
                        ominous grinding at the base, a shiver of the mighty trunk, and directly in
                        line of its fall the bushes swung apart and the laughing face of the Angel
                        looked in on them.
                    A groan of horror burst from the dry throats of the men, and, reading the
                        agony in their faces, she stopped short, glanced up, and understood.
                    "South!" shouted McLean. "Run south!"
                    The poor child was helpless. It was patent that she did not know which way
                        south was.  There was another slow shiver of
                        the big tree. The rest of the gang stood as if rooted, but Freckles sprang
                        past the trunk and went leaping in great bounds. He caught up the Angel and
                        dashed through the thicket for safety. The swaying trunk was half over when,
                        just for an instant, a near-by tree stayed its fall. They saw
                        Freckles' foot catch, and with the Angel he plunged headlong.
                    A terrible cry broke from the men, and McLean covered his face. Instantly
                        Freckles was up, with the Angel in his arms, plunging on again. The other
                        limbs were on them when they saw Freckles hurl the Angel, face down, in the
                        muck, as far from him as he could send her. Springing after, in an attempt
                        to cover her body with his own, he whirled to see if they were still in
                        danger, and with outstretched arms braced himself for the shock. The
                        branches shut them from sight, and the awful crash rocked the earth.
                    McLean and Duncan ran with axes and saws. The rest of the gang followed, and
                        they worked like mad men. It seemed an age before they caught a glimpse of
                        the Angel's blue dress, and it renewed their vigour. Duncan fell on
                        his knees  beside her and tore the muck from
                        underneath her with his hands. In a few seconds he dragged her out, choking
                        and stunned, but surely not fatally hurt.
                    Freckles lay a little farther under the tree, a big limb pinning him down.
                        His eyes were wide open. He was perfectly conscious. Duncan began mining
                        beneath him, but Freckles stopped him.
                    "You can't be moving me," he said. "You
                        must cut off the limb and lift it. I know."
                    Two men ran for the big saw. A number of them laid hold of the limb and bore
                        up. In a little time it was off, and Freckles lay free.
                    The men bent over him to lift him, but he motioned them away.
                    "Don't be touching me until I rest a bit," he
                        pleaded.
                    Then he twisted his head until he saw the Angel, who was digging muck from
                        her eyes and wiping it off her face on the skirt of her dress.
                    "Try to get up," he begged.
                    McLean laid hold of the Angel and helped her to her feet.
                    "Do you think any bones are broken?" gasped Freckles.
                    
                    
                        "He reached his arm about her and drew her up
                            closely."
                    
                    
                    The Angel shook her head and wiped muck.
                    "You see if you can find any, sir," Freckles commanded.
                    The Angel yielded herself to McLean's touch, and he assured Freckles
                        that she was not seriously injured.
                    Freckles settled back with a smile of ineffable tenderness on his face.
                    "Thank the Lord!" he hoarsely whispered.
                    The Angel broke from McLean.
                    "Now, Freckles, you!" she cried. "It's
                        your turn. Please get up!"
                    A pitiful spasm swept Freckles' face. The sight of it washed every
                        vestige of colour from the Angel's. She took hold of his hand.
                    "Freckles, get up!"
                    It was half command, half entreaty.
                    "Easy, Angel, easy! Let me rest a bit first!" implored
                        Freckles.
                    She knelt beside him. He reached his arm about her and drew her up closely.
                        He looked at McLean in an agony of entreaty that brought the Boss to his
                        knees on the other side.
                    "Oh, Freckles!" McLean cried. "Not that!  Surely we can do something! We must! Let me
                        see!"
                    He tried to unfasten Freckles' neck-band, but his fingers shook so
                        clumsily that the Angel pushed them away and herself laid Freckles'
                        chest bare. With just one hasty glance, she gathered the clothing together
                        and slipped her arm under his head. Freckles lifted eyes of agony to hers.
                    "You see?" he said.
                    The Angel nodded dumbly.
                    Freckles turned to McLean.
                    "Thank you for everything," he panted. "Where are
                        the boys?"
                    "They are all here," said the Boss, "except a
                        couple that have gone for doctors, Mrs. Duncan, and the Bird
                        Woman."
                    "It's no use trying to do anything," said
                        Freckles. "You won't forget the muff and the Christmas
                        box. The muff especial?"
                    There was a movement above them so pronounced that it attracted
                        Freckles' attention, even in that extreme hour. He looked up, and a
                        pleased smile flickered into his drawn face.
                    "Why, if it ain't me Little Chicken!" he cried
                        hoarsely. "He must be making his very first  trip from the log. Now Duncan can have his big
                        watering-trough."
                    "It was Little Chicken that made me late," faltered the
                        Angel. "I was so anxious to get here early I forgot to bring his
                        breakfast from the carriage. He must have been very hungry, for when I
                        passed the log he started after me. He was so wobbly, and so slow getting
                        from tree to tree and through the bushes, I just had to wait on him, for I
                        couldn't drive him back."
                    "Of course you couldn't! Me bird has too amazing good sinse
                        to go back when he could be following you," exulted Freckles, just
                        as if he did not realise that the delay was the price of his life. Then he
                        lay silently thinking, but presently he asked slowly, "And so
                        'twas me Little Chicken that was making you late, Angel?"
                    "Yes," said the Angel.
                    A spasm of fierce pain shook Freckles, and a look of uncertainty crossed his
                        face.
                    "All summer I've been thanking God for the falling of the
                        feather and all the delights it's brought me," he
                        muttered, "but this looks like"
                    He stopped short and raised questioning eyes to McLean.
                    
                    "I can't help being Irish, but I can help being
                        superstitious," he said. "I mustn't be laying it
                        to the Almighty, nor to me bird, must I?"
                    "No, dear lad," said McLean, stroking the brilliant hair.
                        "The choice lay with you. You could have stood a rooted dolt like
                        all the rest of us. It was through your great love and your high courage
                        that you made the sacrifice."
                    "Don't you be so naming it, sir!" cried Freckles.
                        "It's just the reverse. If I could be giving me body the
                        hundred times over to save hers from this, I'd be doing it and take
                        joy with every pain."
                    He turned with a smile of adoring tenderness to the Angel. She was ghastly
                        white, and her eyes were dull and glazed. She scarcely seemed to hear or
                        understand what was coming, but she bravely tried to answer that smile.
                    "Is my forehead covered with dirt?" he asked.
                    She shook her head.
                    "You did once," he gasped.
                    Instantly she laid her lips on his forehead, then on each cheek, and then in
                        a long kiss on his lips.
                    Then McLean bent over him.
                    "Freckles," he said brokenly, "you will never  know how I love you. You won't go
                        without saying good-bye to me?"
                    That word stung the Angel to quick comprehension. She started as if rousing
                        from sleep.
                    "Good-bye?" she cried sharply, her eyes widening and the
                        colour rushing into her white face. "Good-bye! Why, what do you
                        mean? Who's saying good-bye? Where could Freckles go, when he is
                        hurt like this, but to the hospital? You needn't say good-bye for
                        that. Of course, we will all go with him! You call up the men. We must start
                        right away."
                    "It's no use, Angel," said Freckles;
                        "I'm thinking ivry bone in me breast is smashed.
                        You'll have to be letting me go!"
                    "I will not," said the Angel flatly.
                        "It's no use wasting precious time talking about it. You
                        are alive. You are breathing; and no matter how badly your bones are broken,
                        what are great surgeons for but to fix you up and make you well again? You
                        promise me that you'll just grit your teeth and hang on when we
                        hurt you, for we must start with you as quickly as it can be done. I
                        don't know what has been the matter with me. Here's good
                        time wasted already."
                    
                    "Oh, Angel!" moaned Freckles, "I can't!
                        You don't know how bad it is. I'll die the minute you are
                        for trying to lift me!"
                    "Of course you will, if you make up your mind to do it,"
                        said the Angel. "But if you are determined you won't, and
                        you set yourself to breathing deep and strong, and hang on to me tight, I
                        can get you out. Really you have to do it, Freckles, no matter how it hurts
                        you, for you did this for me, and now I must save you, so you might as well
                        promise."
                    She bent over him, trying to smile encouragement with her fear-stiffened
                        lips.
                    "You will promise, Freckles?"
                    Big drops of cold sweat ran together on Freckles' temples.
                    "Angel, darlin' Angel," he pleaded, taking her
                        hand in his. "You ain't understanding, and I
                        can't for the life of me be telling you, but, indade, it's
                        best to be letting me go. This is just my chance. Please say good-bye, and
                        let me slip off quick?"
                    He appealed to McLean.
                    "Dear Boss, you know! You be telling her that, for me, living is far
                        worse pain than dying.  Tell her you know
                        death is the best thing that could ever be happening to me!"
                    "Merciful heaven!" burst in the Angel. "I
                        can't bear this delay!"
                    She caught Freckles' hand to her breast, and, bending over him,
                        looked deep into his stricken eyes.
                    "'Angel, I give you my word of honour that I will keep
                        right on breathing.' That's what you are going to promise
                        me," she said. "Do you say it?"
                    Freckles hesitated.
                    "Freckles!" imploringly commanded the Angel, "you do say it!"
                    "Yis," gasped Freckles.
                    The Angel sprang to her feet.
                    "Then that's all right," she said, with a tinge of
                        her old-time briskness. "You just keep sawing away like a
                        steam-engine, and I will do all the rest."
                    The eager men gathered about her.
                    "It's going to be a tough pull to get Freckles
                        out," she said, "but it's our only chance, so
                        listen closely and don't for the lives of you fail me in doing
                        quickly what I tell you. There's  no
                        time to spend falling down over each other; we must have some system. You
                        four there get on those wagon-horses and ride to the sleeping-tent. Get the
                        stoutest cot, a couple of comforts, and a pillow. Ride back with them some
                        way to save time. If you meet any other men of the gang, send them on here
                        to help carry the cot. We won't risk the jolt of driving with him.
                        The rest of you clear a path out to the road; and Mr. McLean, you take
                        Nellie and ride to town. Tell my father how Freckles is hurt and that he
                        risked it to save me. Tell him I'm going to take Freckles to
                        Chicago on the noon train, and I want him to hold it if we are a little
                        late. If he can't, then have a special ready at the station and
                        another on the Pittsburg at Fort Wayne, so we can go straight through. You
                        needn't mind leaving us. The Bird Woman will be here soon. We will
                        rest a little."
                    She dropped back into the muck beside Freckles and began stroking his hair
                        and hand. He lay with his face of agony turned to hers, and fought to
                        smother the groans that would tell her what he was suffering.
                    
                    When they stood ready to lift him, the Angel bent over him in a passion of
                        tenderness.
                    "Dear old Limberlost guard, we're going to lift you
                        now," she said. "I suspect you will faint from the pain of
                        it, but we will be just as easy as ever we can, and don't you dare
                        forget your promise!"
                    A whimsical half-smile touched Freckles' quivering lips.
                    "Angel, can a man be remembering a promise when he ain't
                        knowing?" he asked.
                    "You can," said the Angel stoutly, "because a
                        promise means so much more to you than it does to most men."
                    A look of strength flashed into Freckles' face at her words.
                    "I am ready," he said.
                    With the first touch his eyes closed, a mighty groan was wrenched from him,
                        and he lay senseless. The Angel gave Duncan one panic-stricken look. Then
                        she set her lips and gathered her forces again.
                    "I guess that's a good thing," she said.
                        "Maybe he won't feel how we are hurting him. Oh, boys, are
                        you being quick and gentle?"
                    
                    She stepped to the side of the cot and bathed Freckles' face. Taking
                        his hand in hers, she gave the word to start. She told the men to ask every
                        able-bodied man they met to join them so that they could change carriers
                        often and make good time.
                    The Bird Woman insisted upon taking the Angel into the carriage and following
                        the cot, but the Angel refused to leave Freckles, and suggested that the
                        Bird Woman drive ahead, pack them some clothing, and be at the station ready
                        to accompany them to Chicago. All the way the Angel walked beside the cot,
                        shading Freckles' face with a branch, and holding his hand. At
                        every pause to change carriers she moistened his face and lips and counted
                        each breath with heart-breaking anxiety.
                    She scarcely knew when her father joined them, and, taking the branch from
                        her, slipped an arm about her waist and almost carried her along. To the
                        city streets and the swarm of curious, staring faces she paid no more
                        attention than she had to the trees of the Limberlost. When the train pulled
                        in and the gang placed Freckles aboard, big Duncan made a place for the
                        Angel beside the cot.
                    
                    With the best physician to be found, and with the Bird Woman and McLean in
                        attendance, the four-hours' run to Chicago began. The Angel
                        constantly watched over Freckles; bathed his face, stroked his hand, and
                        softly fanned him. Not for an instant would she yield her place, or allow
                        any one else to do anything for him. The Bird Woman and McLean regarded her
                        in amazement. There seemed to be no end to her resources and courage. The
                        only time she spoke was to ask McLean if he was sure the special would be
                        ready on the Pittsburg line. He replied that it was made up and waiting.
                    At five o'clock, Freckles lay stretched on the operating-table of
                        Lake View Hospital, while three of the greatest surgeons in Chicago bent
                        over him. At their command, McLean picked up the unwilling Angel and carried
                        her out to the nurses to be bathed, have her bruises attended to, and be put
                        to bed.
                    In place where it is difficult to surprise people, they were astonished women
                        as they removed the Angel's dainty stained and torn clothing,
                        peeled off -hose muck-baked to her limbs, soaked the
                        dried loam from her silken  hair, and washed
                        the beautiful scratched, bruised, dirt-covered body. The Angel fell fast
                        asleep long before they had finished, and lay deeply unconscious, while the
                        fight for Freckles' life was being waged.
                    Three days later she was the same Angel as of old, except that Freckles was
                        constantly in her thoughts. The anxiety and responsibility that she felt for
                        his condition had bred in her a touch of womanliness and authority that was
                        new. That morning she was up early and hovering near Freckles'
                        door. She had been allowed to remain with him constantly, for the nurses and
                        surgeons had learned, with his returning consciousness, that for her alone
                        would the active, highly strung, pain-racked sufferer be quiet and obey
                        orders. When she was dropping from loss of sleep, the threat that she would
                        fall ill had to be used to send her to bed. Then by telling Freckles that
                        the Angel was asleep and they would waken her the moment he moved, they were
                        able to control him for a short time.
                    The surgeon was with Freckles. The Angel had been told that the word he
                        brought that morning would be final, so she curled up in a  window-seat, dropped the curtains behind her,
                        and, in dire anxiety, waited the opening of that closed door.
                    Just as it unclosed, McLean came hurrying down the hall and up to the
                        surgeon, but with one glance at his face he stepped back in dismay; and the
                        Angel, who had risen, sank to the seat again, too dazed to come forward. The
                        men faced each other. The Angel, with parted lips and frightened eyes, bent
                        forward in tense anxiety.
                    "II thought he was doing nicely?" faltered McLean.
                    "He bore the operation well," replied the surgeon,
                        "and his wounds are not necessarily fatal. I told you that
                        yesterday, but I did not tell you that something else would probably kill
                        him; and it will. He need not die from the accident, but he will not live
                        the day out."
                    "But why? What is it?" asked McLean, hurriedly.
                        "We all dearly love the boy. We have millions among us to do
                        anything that money can accomplish. Why must he die, if those broken bones
                        do not kill him?"
                    "That is what I am going to give you the  opportunity of telling me," replied the surgeon.
                        "He need not die from the accident, yet he is dying as fast as his
                        splendid physical condition will permit, and it is because he so evidently
                        prefers death to life. If he were full of hope and ambition to live, my work
                        would be easy. If all of you love him as you prove you do, and there is
                        unlimited means to give him anything he wants, why should he desire
                        death?"
                    "Is he dying?" demanded McLean.
                    "He is," said the surgeon. "He will not live this
                        day out, unless some strong reaction sets in at once. He is so low that,
                        preferring death to life, nature cannot overcome his inertia. If he is to
                        live, he must be made to desire life. Now he undoubtedly wishes for death,
                        and that it come quickly."
                    "Then he must die," said McLean.
                    His broad shoulders shook convulsively. His strong hands opened and closed
                        mechanically.
                    "Does that mean that you know what he desires and cannot, or will
                        not, supply it?"
                    McLean groaned in misery.
                    "It means," he said desperately, "that I know what
                        he wants, but it is as far removed from my 
                        power to give it to him as it would be to give him a star. The thing for
                        which he will die he can never have."
                    "Then you must prepare for the end very shortly," said the
                        surgeon, turning abruptly away.
                    McLean caught his arm roughly.
                    "You look here!" he cried in desperation. "You say
                        that as if I could do something if I would. I tell you the boy is dear to me
                        past expression. I would do anythingspend any sum. You have noticed and
                        repeatedly commented on the young girl with me. It is that child that he
                        wants! He worships her to adoration, and knowing he can never be anything to
                        her, he prefers death to life. In God's name, what can I do about
                        it?"
                    "Barring that missing hand, I never handled a finer man,"
                        said the surgeon, "and she seems perfectly devoted to him; why
                        cannot he have her?"
                    "Why?" echoed McLean. "Why? Well, for a good many
                        reasons! I told you he was my son. You probably knew that he was not. A
                        little over a year ago I had never seen him. He  joined one of my lumber-gangs from the road. He is a stray, left at one
                        of your homes for the friendless here in Chicago. When he grew, up the
                        superintendent bound him out to a brutal man. He ran away and landed in one
                        of my lumber-camps. He has no name or knowledge of legal
                        bir--- The Angelwe have talked of her. You see
                            -hat she is, physically and mentally. She has
                        ancestors reaching back to Plymouth Rock, and across the sea for generations
                        back of that. She is an idolised, petted only child, and there is great
                        wealth. Life holds everything for her, nothing for him. He sees it more
                        plainly than any one else could. There is nothing for the boy but death, if
                        it is the Angel that is required to save him."
                    The Angel stood between them.
                    "Well, I just guess not!" she cried. "If Freckles
                        wants me, all he has to do is to say so, and he can have me!"
                    The amazed men stepped back, staring at her
                    "That he will never say." said McLean at last,
                        "and you don't understand, Angel. I don't know
                        how you came here. I wouldn't have had you hear that for the world,
                        but since you have,  dear girlie, you must be
                        told that it isn't your friendship or your kindness Freckles wants;
                        it is your love."
                    The Angel looked straight into the great surgeon's eyes with her
                        clear, steady orbs of blue, and then into McLean's with unwavering
                        frankness.
                    "Well, I do love him," she said simply.
                    McLean's arms dropped helplessly.
                    "You don't understand," he reiterated patiently.
                        "It isn't the love of a friend, or a comrade, or a sister,
                        that Freckles wants from you; it is the love of a sweetheart. And if to save
                        the life he has offered for you, you are thinking of being generous and
                        impulsive enough to sacrifice your futurein the absence of your father, it
                        will become my plain duty, as the protector in whose hands he has placed
                        you, to prevent such rashness. The very words you speak, and the manner in
                        which you say them, proves that you are a mere child, and have not dreamed
                        what love is."
                    Then the Angel grew splendid. A rosy flush swept the pallor of fear from her
                        face. Her big eyes widened and dilated with intense lights. She seemed to
                        leap to the height and the dignity  of superb
                        womanhood before their wondering gaze.
                    "I have never had to dream of love," she said proudly.
                        "I have never known anything else, in all my life, but to love
                        every one and to have every one love me. And there has never been any one so
                        dear as Freckles. If you will remember, we have been through a good deal
                        together. I do love Freckles, just as I say I do. I don't know
                        anything about the love of sweethearts, but I love him with all the love in
                        my heart, and I think that will satisfy him."
                    "Surely it ought!" muttered the man of knives and lancets.
                    McLean reached to take hold of the Angel, but she saw the movement and
                        swiftly stepped back.
                    "As for my father," she continued, "he at once
                        told me what he learned from you about Freckles. I've known all you
                        know for several weeks. That knowledge didn't change your love for
                        him a particle. I think the Bird Woman loved him more. Why should you two
                        have all the fine perceptions there are? Can't I see how brave,
                        trustworthy, and splendid he is? Can't I see how his soul vibrates
                        with his music, his love of  beautiful things,
                        and the pangs of loneliness and heart-hunger? Must you two love him with all
                        the love there is, and I give him none? My father is never unreasonable. He
                        won't expect me not to love Freckles, or not to tell him so, if the
                        telling will save him."
                    She darted past McLean into Freckles' room, closed the door, and
                        turned the key.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVIII
                    WHEREIN FRECKLES
                            REFUSES LOVE WITHOUT KNOWLEDGE OF HONOURABLE BIRTH, AND THE ANGEL GOES IN
                            QUEST OF IT
                    
                    FRECKLES lay raised on a flat pillow, his body immovable
                        in a plaster cast, his maimed arm, as always, hidden. His greedy eyes
                        fastened at once on the Angel's face. She crossed to him with light
                        step and bent over him with infinite tenderness. Her heart ached at the
                        change in his appearance. He seemed so weak, so heart-hungry, so utterly
                        hopeless, and so alone. She could see that the night had been one long
                        terror.
                    For the first time she tried putting herself in Freckles' place.
                        What would it mean to have no parents, no home, no name? No name! That was
                        the worst of all. That was to be lost, indeedutterly and hopelessly lost.
                        The Angel lifted her hands to her dazed head and reeled, as she tried to
                        face that proposition. She dropped on  her
                        knees by the bed, slipped her arm under the pillow, and, leaning over
                        Freckles, set her lips on his forehead. He smiled faintly, but his wistful
                        face looked worse for it. It cut the Angel to the heart.
                    "Dear Freckles," she said, "there is a story in
                        your eyes this morning; tell me?"
                    Freckles drew a long, wavering breath.
                    "Angel," he begged, "be generous! Be thinking of
                        me a little. I'm so homesick and worn out, dear Angel, be giving me
                        back me promise. Let me go?"
                    "Why, Freckles!" faltered the Angel. "You
                        don't know what you are asking. 'Let you go!' I
                        cannot! I love you better than any one, Freckles. I think you are the very
                        finest person I ever knew. I have our lives all planned. I want you to go to
                        be educated and learn all there is to know about singing, just as soon as
                        you are well enough. By the time you have completed your education I shall
                        have finished college, and then I want," she choked on it a second,
                        "I want you to be my real knight, Freckles, and come to me and tell
                        me that youlike mea little. I have been counting on you for my  sweetheart from the very first, Freckles. I
                        can't give you up, unless you don't like me. But you do
                        like mejust a littledon't you, Freckles?"
                    Freckles lay whiter than the coverlet, his staring eyes on the ceiling and
                        his breath wheezing between dry lips. The Angel awaited his answer a second,
                        and when none came, she dropped her crimsoning face beside his on the pillow
                        and whispered in his ear:
                    "Freckles, II'm trying to make love to you. Oh,
                        can't you help me just a little bit? It's awful hard all
                        alone! I don't know how, when I really mean it, but Freckles, I
                        love you. I must have you, and now I guessI guess maybe I'd better
                        kiss you next."
                    She lifted her shamed face and bravely laid her feverish, quivering lips on
                        his. Her breath, like clover-bloom, was in his nostrils, and her hair
                        touched his face. Then she looked into his eyes with reproach.
                    "Freckles," she panted, "Freckles! I
                        didn't think it was in you to be mean!"
                    "Mean, Angel! Mean to you?" gasped Freckles.
                    "Yes," said the Angel. "Downright mean  When one kisses you, if you had any mercy at
                        all you'd kiss back, just a little bit. Now, I'm going to
                        try it over, and I want you to help me a little. You aren't too
                        sick to help me just a little, Freckles?" she implored.
                    Freckles' sinewy fist knotted into the coverlet. His chin pointed
                        ceilingward and his head rocked on the pillow.
                    "Oh, Jesus!" burst from him in agony. "You
                        ain't the only one that was crucified!"
                    The Angel caught Freckles' hand and carried it to her breast.
                    "Freckles!" she wailed in terror, "Freckles! Is it
                        a mistake? Is it that you don't want me?"
                    Freckles' head rolled on in wordless suffering.
                    "Wait a bit, Angel?" he panted at last. "Be giving
                        me a little time!"
                    The Angel rose with controlled features. She bathed his face, straightened
                        his hair, and held water to his lips. It seemed an age before he reached for
                        her. Instantly she knelt again, carried his hand to her breast, and leaned
                        her cheek upon it.
                    "Tell me, Freckles," she whispered softly.
                    "If I can," said Freckles, in biting agony.
                        "It's  just this. Angels are
                        from above. Outcasts are from below. You've a sound body and
                        you're beautifulest of all. You have everything that loving,
                        careful raising and money can give you. I have so much less than nothing
                        that I don't suppose I had any right to be born. It's a
                        sure thingnobody wanted me afterward, so, of course, they didn't
                        before. Some of them should have been telling you long ago."
                    "If that's all you have to tell, Freckles, I've
                        known that quite a while," said the Angel stoutly. "Mr.
                        McLean told my father, and he told me. That only makes me love you more, to
                        pay for all you've missed."
                    "Then I'm wondering at you," said Freckles, in a
                        voice of awe. "Can't you see that if you were willing and
                        your father would come and offer you to me, I couldn't be touching
                        the soles of your feet, in loveme, whose people brawled over me, cut off me
                        hand, and throwed me away to freeze and to die! Me, who has no name just as
                        much because I've no right to any, as because I
                        don't know it. When I was little, I planned to find me father and
                        mother when I grew up. Now I know me mother deserted me, and me  father was maybe a thief and surely a liar.
                        The pity of me suffering and the watching over me has gone to your head,
                        dear Angel, and it's me must be thinking for you. If you could be
                        forgetting me lost hand, where I was raised, and that I had no name to give
                        you, and if you would be taking me as I am, some day people such as mine
                        must be might come upon you. I used to pray ivery night and morning and many
                        times the day to see me mother. Now I only pray to die quickly and never
                        risk the sight of her. 'Taint no ways possible, Angel1
                        It's a wildness of your dear head. Oh, do, for mercy sake, kiss me
                        once more and be letting me go!"
                    "Not for a minute!" cried the Angel. "Not for a
                        minute, if those are all the reasons you have. It's you that have
                        the wildness in your head, but I can understand just how it happened. Being
                        shut up in that Home most of your life, and seeing children every day whose
                        parents did neglect and desert them, makes you sure yours did the same; and
                        yet there's a lot of other things that could have happened so much
                        more easily than that. There are thousands of young couples who come to this
                        country and start a family with none of  their
                        relatives here. Chicago is a big, wicked city, and grown people could be
                        wiped out in a lot of ways, and who would there ever be to find to whom
                        their little children belonged? The minute my father told me how you felt, I
                        began to study this thing over, and I've made up my mind you are
                        dead wrong. I meant to ask my father or the Bird Woman to talk to you before
                        you went away to school, but the way things are right now I guess
                        I'll just do it myself. It's all so plain to me. Oh, if I
                        could only make you see!"
                    She buried her face in the pillow and presently lifted it, transfigured.
                    "Now I have it!" she cried. "Oh, dear heart! I can
                        make it so plain! Freckles, can you imagine you see the old Limberlost
                        trail? Well, when we followed it, you know there were places where ugly,
                        prickly thistles overgrew the path, and you went ahead with your club and
                        bent them back to keep them from stinging through my clothing. Other places
                        there were great shining pools where lovely, snow-white lilies grew, and you
                        waded in and gathered them for me. Oh, dear heart, don't you see?
                        It's  this! Everywhere the wind
                        carried that thistledown, other thistles sprang up and grew prickles; and
                        wherever those lily-seeds sank to the mire, the pure white of other lilies
                        bloomed. But, Freckles, there was never a place anywhere about the
                        Limberlost, or in the whole world, where the thistledown floated and sprang
                        up and blossomed into white lilies! Thistles grow from thistles, and lilies
                        grow other lilies. Dear Freckles, think hard! You must see it! You are lily,
                        straight through! You never, never could have drifted from the
                        thistle-patch.
                    "Where did you get the courage to go into the Limberlost and face
                        its terrors? You inherited it from the blood of a brave father, dear heart.
                        Where did you get the pluck to hold for over a year a job that few men would
                        have taken at all? You got it from a plucky mother, you bravest of boys. You
                        waded single-handed into a man almost twice your size, and fought like a
                        demon, just at the suggestion that you could be deceptive and dishonest.
                        Could your mother or your father have been untruthful? Here you are, so
                        hungry and starved out that you are dying for love. Where did you get all
                        that capacity  for loving? You didn't
                        inherit it from hardened, heartless people, who would disfigure you and
                        purposely leave you to die, that's one sure thing. You once told me
                        of saving your big bullfrog from a rattlesnake. You knew you risked a
                        horrible death when you did it. Yet you will spend miserable years torturing
                        yourself with the idea that your own mother might have cut off that hand.
                        Shame on you, Freckles! Your mother would have done this"
                    The Angel deliberately turned back the cover, slipped up the sleeve, and laid
                        her lips on the scars.
                    "Freckles! Wake up!" she cried, almost shaking him.
                        "Come to your senses! Be a thinking, reasoning man! You have
                        brooded too much, and been all your life too much alone. It's all
                        as plain as plain can be to me. You just must see it! Like breeds like in
                        this world! You must be some sort of a reproduction of your parents, and I
                        am not afraid to vouch for them, not for a minute!
                    "And then, too, if more proof is needed, here it is: Mr. McLean says
                        that you have never once failed in tact and courtesy. He says that  you are the most perfect gentleman he ever
                        knew, and he has travelled the world over. How does it happen, Freckles?
                        Nobody at that Home taught you that. Hundreds of men couldn't be
                        taught it even in a school of etiquette; so it must be instinctive with you.
                        If it is, why, that means that it is born in you, and a direct inheritance
                        from a race of men that have been gentlemen for ages, and couldn't
                        be anything else.
                    "Then there's your singing. I don't believe there
                        ever was a mortal with a sweeter voice than yours, and while that
                        doesn't prove anything, there is a point that does. Just the little
                        training you had from that choir-master won't account for the
                        wonderful accent and ease with which you sing. Somewhere in your close blood
                        is a marvellously trained vocalist; we every one of us believe that,
                        Freckles.
                    "Why does my father refer to you constantly as being of fine
                        perceptions and honour? Because you are, Freckles. Why does the Bird Woman
                        leave her precious work and stay here to help look after you? I never heard
                        of her losing any time over any one else. It's because she loves
                        you.  And why does Mr. McLean turn all of his
                        valuable business over to hired men and watch over you personally? And why
                        is he hunting excuses every day to spend money on you? My father says McLean
                        is full Scotch-close with a dollar. He is a hard-headed business man,
                        Freckles, and he is doing it because he finds you worthy of it. Worthy of
                        all we can all do and more than we know how to do, dear heart! Freckles, are
                        you listening to me? Oh! won't you see it? Won't you
                        believe it?"
                    "Oh, Angel!" chattered the bewildered Freckles,
                        "are you truly maning it? Could it be?"
                    "Of course it could," flashed the Angel, "because
                        it just is!"
                    "But you can't prove it," wailed Freckles.
                        "It ain't giving me a name, or me honour!"
                    "Freckles," said the Angel, sternly, "you are
                        unreasonable! Why, I did prove every word I said!
                        Everything proves it! You look here! If you knew for sure that I could give
                        you your name and your honour, and prove to you that your mother did love
                        you, why, then, would you just go to breathing like perpetual motion and
                        hang on for dear life and get well?"
                    
                    A great light leaped into Freckles' eyes.
                    "If I knew that, Angel," he said solemnly, "you
                        couldn't be killing me if you felled the biggest tree in the
                        Limberlost smash on me!"
                    "Then you go right to work," said the Angel, "and
                        before night I'll prove one thing to you: I can show you easily
                        enough how much your mother loved you. That will be the first step, and then
                        the rest will all come. If my father and Mr. McLean are so anxious to spend
                        some money, I'll give them a chance. I don't see why we
                        haven't comprehended how you felt and so have been at work weeks
                        ago. We've been awfully selfish. We've all been so
                        comfortable, we never stopped to think what other people were suffering
                        before our eyes. None of us has understood. I'll hire the finest
                        detective in Chicago, and we'll go to work together. This
                        isn't anything compared with things people do find out.
                        We'll go at it, beak and claw, and we'll show you a thing
                        or two."
                    Freckles caught her sleeve.
                    "Me mother, Angel! Me mother!" he marvelled hoarsely.
                        "Did you say you could be finding out to-day if me mother loved me?
                             How? Oh, Angel! All the rest
                        don't matter, if only me mother didn't do
                        it!"
                    "Then you rest easy," said the Angel, with large
                        confidence. "Your mother didn't do it! Mothers of sons
                        like you don't do such things as that. I'll go to work at
                        once and prove it to you. The first thing to do is to go to that Home where
                        you were and get the little clothes you wore the night you were left there.
                        I know that they are required to save those things carefully. We can find
                        out almost all there is to know about your mother from them. Did you ever
                        see them, Freckles?"
                    "Yis," said Freckles.
                    The Angel literally pounced on him.
                    "Freckles! were they white?" she cried.
                    "Maybe they were once. They're all yellow with laying, and
                        brown with blood-stains now," said Freckles, the old note of
                        bitterness creeping in. "You can't be telling anything at
                        all by them, Angel!"
                    "Well, but I just can!" said the Angel, positively.
                        "I can see from the quality what kind of goods your mother could
                        afford to buy. I can see from the cut whether she had good taste. I can  see from the care she took in making them how
                        much she loved and wanted you."
                    "But how? Angel, tell me how!" implored Freckles, with
                        trembling eagerness.
                    "Why, easily enough," said the Angel. "I thought
                        you'd understand. People that can afford anything at all, always
                        get white for little new babieslinen and lace, and the very finest things to
                        be had. There's a young woman living near us who cut up her
                        wedding-clothes to have fine things for her baby. Mothers that love and want
                        their babies don't buy little rough, ready-made things, and they
                        don't run up what they make on an old sewing-machine. They make
                        fine seams, and tucks, and put on lace and trimming by hand. They sit and
                        stitch, and stitchlittle, even stitches, every one just as careful. Their
                        eyes shine and their faces glow. When they have to quit to do something
                        else, they look sorry, and fold up their work so particularly. There
                        isn't much worth knowing about your mother that those little
                        clothes won't tell. I can see her putting the little stitches into
                        them and smiling with shining eyes over your coming. Freckles, I bet you a
                        dollar those little clothe  of yours are just
                        alive with the dearest, tiny, hand-made stitches."
                    A new light dawned in Freckles' eyes. A tinge of warm colour swept
                        into his face. Renewed strength was noticeable in his grip on her hands.
                    "Oh, Angel! Will you go now? Will you be hurrying?" he
                        cried.
                    "Right away," said the Angel. "I won't
                        stop for a thing, and I'll hurry with all my might."
                    She smoothed his pillow, straightened the cover, gave him one steady look in
                        the eyes, and went quietly from the room.
                    Outside the door, McLean and the surgeon anxiously awaited her. McLean caught
                        her shoulders.
                    "Angel, what have you done?" he demanded desperately.
                    The Angel smiled defiance into his eyes.
                    "'What have I done?'" she repeated.
                        "I've tried to save Freckles."
                    McLean groaned.
                    "What will your father say?" he cried.
                    "It strikes me," said the Angel, "that what
                        Freckles said would be to the point."
                    
                    "Freckles" burst out McLean. "What could he
                        say?"
                    "He seemed to be able to say several things," said the
                        Angel sweetly. "I fancy the one that concerns you most at present
                        was, that if my father would offer me to him he would not have me."
                    "And no one knows why better than I do," thundered McLean.
                        "Every day he must astonish me with some new fineness."
                    He gripped the surgeon until he almost lifted him from the floor.
                    "Save him!" he commanded. "Save him!" he
                        implored. "He is too fine to be sacrificed."
                    "His salvation lies here," said the surgeon, stroking the
                        Angel's sunshiny hair, "and I can read in the face of her
                        that she knows how she is going to work it out. Don't trouble for
                        the boy. She will save him!"
                    The Angel sped laughingly down the hall, and into the street, just as she
                        was.
                    "I have come," she said to the matron of the Home,
                        "to ask if you will allow me, to examine, or, better still, to take
                        with me, the little clothes that a boy you called Freckles, discharged last
                        fall, wore the night you took him in."
                    
                    The woman eyed her in greater astonishment than the case called for.
                    "Well, I'd be glad to let you see them," she said
                        at last, "but the fact is we haven't them. I do hope we
                        haven't made some mistake. I was thoroughly convinced, and so was
                        the superintendent. We let his people take those things away yesterday. Who
                        are you, and what do you want with them?"
                    The Angel stood staring at the matron, dazed and speechless.
                    "There couldn't have been a mistake," continued
                        the matron, seeing the Angel's pitiful distress. "Freckles
                        was here when I took charge, ten years ago. These people had it all proven
                        plain as day that he belonged to them. They had him traced to where he ran
                        away down in Illinois last fall, and there they completely lost track of
                        him. I'm sorry you seem so terribly disappointed, but it was all
                        right. The man was his uncle, and as like the boy as he could possibly be.
                        He was almost killed to go back without him. If you know where Freckles is,
                        they'd give big money to find out."
                    
                    The Angel laid a hand along each jaw to steady her chattering teeth.
                    "Who are they?" she stammered. "Where are they
                        going back to?"
                    "They are Irish folks, Miss," said the matron.
                        "They have been in Chicago and over the country for the last three
                        months, hunting him everywhere. They have given up, and are starting home
                        to-day. They"
                    "Did they leave an address? Where could I find them?" burst
                        in the Angel.
                    "They left a card, and I notice the morning paper has the
                        man's picture and is full of them. They've advertised a
                        great deal in the city papers. It's a wonder you haven't
                        seen something."
                    "Trains don't run right. We never get Chicago
                        papers," snapped the Angel. "Please give me that card
                        quickly. They may get away from me. I simply have to catch them!"
                    The matron hurried to the secretary and came back with a card.
                    "Their addresses are on there," she said. "Both
                        here in Chicago and at their home. They made them full and plain, and I was
                        to cable at once if I got the least clue of him at any time.  If they've left the city, you can
                        stop them in New York. You're sure to catch them before they sailif
                        you hurry."
                    The matron caught up a paper and thrust it into the Angel's hand as
                        she rushed for the street.
                    The Angel glanced at the card. The Chicago address was Suite Eleven,
                        Auditorium. She laid her hand on her driver's sleeve and looked
                        into his eyes.
                    "There it a fast-driving limit?" she asked.
                    "Yes, Miss."
                    "Will you crowd it all you can without danger of arrest? I will pay
                        well. I must catch some people!"
                    Then she smiled at him. The hospital, an Orphans' Home, and the
                        Auditorium seemed a queer combination to that driver, but the Angel was
                        always and everywhere the Angel, and her ways were strictly her own.
                    "I will get you there just as quickly as any man could with a
                        team," he said promptly.
                    Slamming the door, he sprang to the box and gave the horses a cut that rolled
                        the Angel from the seat.
                    She clung to the card and paper, and, as best 
                        she could in the lurching, swaying cab, read the addresses over.
                    "O'More, Suite Eleven, Auditorium."
                    "O'More," she repeated. "Seems to fit
                        Freckles to a dot. Wonder if that could be his name? 'Suite
                        Eleven' means that you are pretty well fixed. Suites in the
                        Auditorium come high."
                    Then she turned the card and read on its reverse, Lord Maxwell
                        O'More, M.P., Killvany Place, County Clare, Ireland.
                    The Angel sat well on the edge of the seat, bracing her feet against the one
                        opposite, as the cab pitched and swung around corners and past vehicles. She
                        mechanically fingered the paste-board and stared straight ahead. Then she
                        drew a deep breath and read the card again.
                    "A Lord-man!" she groaned despairingly. "A
                        Lord-man! Bet my hoe-cake's scorched! Here I've gone and
                        pledged my word to Freckles I'd find him some decent relatives,
                        that he could be proud of, and now there isn't a chance out of a
                        dozen but he'll have to be ashamed of them after all. It's
                        too mean!"
                    The tears of vexation rolled down the tired, nerve-racked Angel's
                        cheeks.
                    
                    "This isn't going to do," she said, resolutely
                        wiping her eyes with the palm of her hand and gulping down the nervous spasm
                        in her throat. "I must read this paper before I meet Lord
                        O'More."
                    She blinked back the tears and, spreading the paper on her knee, read:
                        "After three months' fruitless search, Lord
                        O'More gives up the quest for his lost nephew, and leaves Chicago
                        to-day for his home in Ireland."
                    She read on, and realised every word of it. The likeness settled it. It was
                        Freckles over again, only older and elegantly dressed. There was not a
                        chance to doubt.
                    "Well, I must catch you if I can," muttered the Angel.
                        "But when I do, if you are a gentleman in name only, you
                        shan't have Freckles; that's flat. You're not his
                        father and he is twenty. Anyway, if the law will give him to you for one
                        year, you can't spoil him, because nobody could, and," she
                        added, brightening, "he'll probably do you a lot of good.
                        Freckles and I both have to study years yet, and you ought to be something
                        that will save him. I guess it will come out all right. At least,  I don't believe you can take him
                        away if I say no."
                    "Thank you; and wait, no matter how long," she said to her
                        driver.
                    Catching up the paper, she hurried to the desk and laid down Lord
                        O'More's card.
                    "Has my uncle started yet?" she asked sweetly.
                    The surprised clerk stepped back on a bell-boy, and covertly kicked him for
                        being in the way.
                    "His Lordship is in his room," he said with a low bow.
                    "All right," said the Angel, picking up the card.
                        "I thought he might have started. I'll see him."
                    The clerk shoved the bell-boy toward the Angel.
                    "Show her ladyship to the elevator and Lord
                        O'More's suite," he said, bowing double.
                    "Aw, thanks," said the Angel, with a slight nod, as she
                        turned away.
                    "I'm not sure," she muttered to herself as the
                        elevator shot upward, "whether it's the Irish or the
                        English that say 'Aw, thanks,' but it's probable
                        he isn't either; and anyway, I just had to do something to
                        counteract that 'All right.' How stupid of me!"
                    
                    At the bell-boy's tap, the door swung open and the liveried servant
                        thrust a card-tray before the Angel. The opening of the door created a
                        current that swayed a curtain aside, and in an adjoining room, lounging in a
                        great chair, with a paper in his hand, sat the man who was, beyond question,
                        of Freckles' blood and race.
                    With perfect control the Angel dropped Lord O'More's card
                        in the tray, whipped past his servant, and stood before his lordship.
                    "Good morning," she said with tense politeness.
                    Lord O'More said nothing. He carelessly glanced her over with amused
                        curiosity, until her colour began to deepen and her blood to run hotly.
                    "Well, my dear," he said at last, "how can I serve
                        you?"
                    Instantly the Angel bristled. She had been so shielded in the midst of almost
                        entire freedom, owing to the circumstances of her life, that the words and
                        the look appealed to her as almost insulting. She lifted her head with a
                        proud gesture.
                    "I am not your 'dear,'" she said with
                        slow distinctness. "There isn't a thing in the world  you can do for me. I came here to see if I
                        could do somethinga very great somethingfor you; but if I don't
                        like you, I won't do it!"
                    Then Lord O'More did stare. Suddenly he broke into a ringing laugh.
                        Without a change of attitude or expression, the Angel stood looking steadily
                        at him.
                    There was a silken rustle, and a beautiful woman with cheeks of cherry bloom,
                        hair of jet, and eyes of pure Irish blue, moved to Lord
                        O'More's side, and, catching his arm, shook him
                        impatiently.
                    "Terence! Have you lost your senses?" she cried.
                        "Didn't you understand what the child said? Look at her
                        face! See what she has!"
                    Lord O'More batted his eyes and sat up. He did look at the
                        Angel's face intently, and suddenly found it so good that it was
                        hard to follow the next injunction. He came to his feet instantly.
                    "I beg your pardon," he said. "The fact is, I am
                        leaving Chicago sorely disappointed. It makes me bitter and reckless. I
                        thought it was some more of those queer, useless people that have thrust
                        themselves on me constantly, and I was careless. Forgive me, and tell me why
                        you came."
                    
                    "I will if I like you," said the Angel stoutly,
                        "and if I don't, I won't!"
                    "But I began all wrong, and now I don't know how to make
                        you like me," said his lordship, with sincere penitence in his
                        tone.
                    The Angel found herself yielding to his voice. He spoke in a soft, mellow,
                        smoothly flowing, Irish tone, and though his speech was perfectly correct,
                        it was so rounded, and accented, and the sentences so turned, that it was
                        Freckles over again. Still, it was a matter of the very greatest importance,
                        and she must be sure; so she looked into the beautiful woman's
                        face.
                    "Are you his wife?" she asked.
                    "Yes," said the woman; "I am his wife."
                    "Well," said the Angel judicially, "the Bird Woman
                        says no one in the whole world knows all a man's bignesses and all
                        his littlenesses as his wife does. What you think of him ought to do for me.
                        Do you like him?"
                    The question was so earnestly asked that it met with equal earnestness. The
                        dark head moved caressingly against Lord O'More's sleeve.
                    "Better than any one in the whole world," said Lady
                        O'More promptly.
                    
                    The Angel mused a second, and then her legal tinge came to the fore again.
                    "Yes, but have you any one you could like better, if he
                        wasn't all right?" she persisted.
                    "I have three of his sons, two little daughters, a father, mother,
                        and several brothers and sisters," came the quick reply.
                    "And you like him best?" persisted the Angel with finality.
                    "I love him so much that I would give up every one of them with dry
                        eyes, if by so doing I could save him," said Lord
                        O'More's wife.
                    "Oh!" cried the Angel. "Oh, my!"
                    She lifted her clear eyes to Lord O'More's and shook her
                        head.
                    "She never, never could do that!" she said. "But
                        it's a mighty big thing to your credit that she thinks she could. I guess I'll tell you why I came."
                    She laid down the paper and touched the portrait.
                    "When you were just a boy, did people call you Freckles?"
                        she asked.
                    "Dozens of good fellows all over Ireland and the Continent are doing
                        it to-day," answered Lord O'More.
                    
                    The Angel's face lighted with her most beautiful smile.
                    "I was sure of it," she said winningly.
                        "That's what we call him, and he is so like you, I doubt
                        if any one of those three boys of yours are more so. But it's been
                        twenty years. Seems to me you've been a long time coming!"
                    Lord O'More caught the Angel's wrists and his wife slipped
                        her arms about her.
                    "Steady, my girl!" said the man's voice hoarsely.
                        "Don't make me think you've brought word of the
                        boy at this last hour, unless you know surely."
                    "It's all right," said the Angel. "We
                        have him, and there's no chance of a mistake. If I hadn't
                        gone to that Home for his little clothes, and heard of you and been hunting
                        you, and had met you on the street, or anywhere, I should have stopped you
                        and asked you who you were, just because you are so like him. It's
                        all right. I can tell you where Freckles is; but whether you deserve to know
                        that's another matter!"
                    Lord O'More did not hear her. He dropped back in his chair, and,
                        covering his face, burst  into those terrible
                        sobs that shake and rend a strong man. Lady O'More hovered over
                        him, weeping.
                    "Umph! Looks pretty fair for Freckles," muttered the Angel.
                        "Lots of things can be explained; now perhaps they can explain
                        this."
                    They did explain so fully that in a few minutes the Angel was on her feet,
                        hurrying Lord and Lady O'More to reach the hospital.
                    "You said Freckles' old nurse knew his mother's
                        picture instantly," said the Angel. "I want that picture
                        and the bundle of little clothes."
                    Lady O'More gave them into her hands.
                    The likeness was a large miniature, painted on ivory, with a frame of beaten
                        gold, and the face that looked out of it was of extreme beauty and
                        surpassing sweetness. Surrounded by masses of dark hair was a delicately cut
                        face, with big eyes. In the upper part of it there was no trace of Freckles,
                        but the lips curving in a smile were his very own. The Angel gazed as if she
                        could never leave off. Then with a quivering breath she laid the portrait
                        aside and reached both arms for Lord O'More's neck.
                    "That will save Freckles' life and insure his  happiness," she said positively.
                        "Thank you, oh, thank you for coming!"
                    She kissed and hugged him, and then the wife who had come with him. She
                        opened the bundle of yellow and brown linen and gave just a glance at the
                        texture and work. Then she gathered the little clothes and the picture to
                        her heart and led the way to the cab.
                    Ushering Lord and Lady O'More into the reception-room, she said to
                        McLean, "Please go call up my father and ask him to come on the
                        first train."
                    She swung the door after him.
                    "These are Freckles' people," she said to the Bird
                        Woman. "You can find out about each other; I'm going to
                        him."
                    And she was gone.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIX
                    WHEREIN FRECKLES
                            FINDS HIS BIRTHRIGHT
                            AND THE ANGEL LOSES HER HEART
                    
                    THE nurse left the room quietly, as the Angel entered,
                        still carrying the bundle and picture. When they were alone, the Angel
                        turned to Freckles and saw that the crisis was, indeed, at hand.
                    That she had good word to give him was his salvation, for despite the heavy
                        plaster jacket that held his body immovable, his head was lifted clear of
                        the pillow. Both arms reached for her. His lips and cheeks flamed scarlet.
                        His eyes flashed with excitement.
                    "Angel," he panted. "Oh, Angel! Did you get them?
                        Are they white? Are the little stitches there? Oh, Angel! did
                            me mother love me?"
                    The words seemed to leap from his burning lips. The Angel dropped the bundle
                        on the bed and  laid the picture face down
                        across his knees. She gently pushed his head to the pillow and caught his
                        arms in a firm grasp.
                    "Yes, dear heart," she said with fullest assurance.
                        "No little clothes were ever whiter. I never in all my life saw
                        such dainty, fine, little stitches; and as for loving you, no boy's
                        mother ever loved him more!"
                    A great trembling seized Freckles.
                    "Sure? Are you sure?" he urged with clicking teeth.
                    "I know," said the Angel firmly. "And, Freckles,
                        while you rest and be glad, I want to tell you a little story. When you feel
                        stronger we will look at the clothes together. They are here. They are all
                        right. But when I was at the Home getting them, I heard of some people that
                        were hunting a lost boy. I went to see them, and what they told me was all
                        so exactly like what might have happened to you that I must tell you. Then
                        you'll see that things could be very different from what you have
                        always tortured yourself with thinking. Are you strong enough to listen? May
                        I tell you?"
                    
                    "Maybe 'twasn't me mother! Maybe some one else
                        made those little stitches!"
                    "Now, goosie, don't you begin that," said the
                        Angel, "because I know that it was!"
                    "Know!" cried Freckles, his head springing from the pillow.
                        "Know! How can you know?"
                    The Angel gently soothed him back.
                    "Why, because nobody else would ever sit and do it the way it was
                        done. That's how I know," she said emphatically.
                        "Now you listen while I tell you about this lost boy and his
                        people, who have hunted for months and can't find him."
                    Freckles lay quiet under her touch, but he did not hear a word that she was
                        saying until his roving eyes rested on her face; and he immediately noticed
                        a remarkable thing. For the first time she was talking to him and doing
                        everything but meet his eyes. That was not like the Angel at all. It was the
                        delight of hearing her speak that she always looked one squarely in the face
                        and with perfect frankness. There were no side glances and down-drooping
                        eyes when the Angel talked; she was business straight through. Now she was
                        engrossed with his hand, the coverlet, the ceiling, anything to avoid
                        meeting his eyes.
                    
                    Instantly Freckles' wandering thoughts fastened on her words.
                    "and he was a sour, grumpy, old man," she was saying.
                        "He always had been spoiled, because he was an only son, and had a
                        title, and a big estate. He would have just his way, no matter about his
                        sweet little wife, or his boys, or any one. So when his eldest son fell in
                        love with a beautiful girl with a title, the very girl of all the world his
                        father wanted him to, and added a big adjoining estate to his, why, that
                        pleased him mightily.
                    "Then he went and ordered his other son to marry a poky kind of a
                        girl, that nobody liked, to get another big estate on the other side, and
                        that was different. That was all the world different, because the eldest son
                        had been in love all his life with the girl he married, and, oh, Freckles,
                        it's no wonder, for I saw her! She's a royal beauty and
                        she has the sweetest way.
                    "But that poor younger son, he had been in love with the village
                        vicar's daughter all his life. That's no wonder either,
                        for she was more beautiful yet. She could sing like the angels, but she
                        hadn't a cent. She loved him to death, too, if he  was bony and freckled and red-hairedI
                        don't mean that! They didn't say what colour his hair was,
                        but his father's must have been the reddest ever, for when he found
                        out about them, and it wasn't anything so terrible, he
                            just caved!
                    
                    "The old man went to see the girlthe pretty one with no money, of
                        courseand he hurt her feelings until she ran away. She went over to London
                        and began studying music. Soon she grew to be a lovely singer, and then she
                        joined a company and came to this country.
                    "When the younger son found that she had left London, he ran off and
                        followed her. When she got here all alone, and afraid, and saw him coming to
                        her, why, she was so glad she up and married him, just like anybody else
                        would have done. He didn't want her to travel with the troupe, so
                        when they got to Chicago they thought that would be a good place, and they
                        stopped, and he hunted work. It was slow business, because he had never been
                        taught to do a useful thing, and he didn't even know how to hunt
                        work, least of all to do it when he found it; so pretty soon things were
                        going wrong. But if he couldn't find work, she could always sing,
                        so she sang at  night, and made little things
                        in the daytime. He didn't like her to sing in public, and he
                        wouldn't let her when he could help himself; but winter came, it
                        was very cold, and fire was expensive. Rents went up, and they had to move
                        farther out to cheaper and cheaper places; and you were comingI mean, the
                        boy that is lost was comingand they were almost distracted. Then the man
                        wrote and told his father all about it; and his father sent the letter back
                        unopened and wrote him to never write again. When the baby came, there was
                        mighty little left to pawn for food and a doctor, and nothing at all for a
                        nurse; so an old neighbour woman went in and took care of the young mother
                        and the little baby, just because she was so sorry for them. By that time
                        they were away out in the suburbs on the top floor of a little wooden house,
                        among a lot of big factories, and it kept getting colder, with less to eat.
                        Then the man got desperate, and he went out to just find something to eat;
                        and the woman was desperate, too. She got up, left the old woman to take
                        care of her baby, and went into the city to sing for some money. The woman
                        got so cold she put the  baby in bed and went
                        home. Then a boiler blew up in a big factory beside the little house and set
                        it on fire. A piece of iron was pitched across the little house and broke
                        through the roof. It came down smash, and cut just one little hand off the
                        poor baby. It screamed and screamed; and the fire kept coming closer and
                        closer.
                    "The old woman ran out with the rest of the people and saw what had
                        happened. She knew there wasn't going to be time to wait for
                        firemen or anything, and she ran into the building. She could hear the poor
                        little baby screaming, and she couldn't stand that; so she worked
                        her way up to it. There it was, all hurt and bleeding. Then she was scared
                        almost to death over thinking what its mother would do to her for going off
                        and leaving it, so she ran to a Home for little friendless babies, that was
                        near, and banged on the door. Then she hid across the street until the baby
                        was taken in, and then she ran back to see if her own house was burning up.
                        The big factory and the little house and a lot of others were all gone. The
                        people there told her that the beautiful lady came back and ran into the
                        house to find her baby. She had just gone in when her husband  came, and he went in after her, and the house
                        went down over both of them."
                    Freckles lay rigid, with his eyes on the Angel's face, and she
                        talked rapidly to the ceiling.
                    "Then the old woman was just sick about that poor little baby. She
                        was afraid to tell them at the Home, because she knew she never should have
                        left it, but she wrote a letter and sent it to where the beautiful woman
                        when she was ill had said her husband's people lived. She told all
                        about the little baby that she could remember: when it was born, how it was
                        named for the man's elder brother, that it's hand had been
                        cut off in the fire, and where she had put it to be doctored and taken care
                        of. She told them that its mother and father were both burned, and she
                        begged and implored them to come and get it.
                    "You think it would have melted a heart of ice, but that old man
                        hadn't any heart to melt, for he got that letter and read it. He
                        hid it away among his papers and never told a soul. A few months ago he
                        died. When his elder son went to settle up his business, he found that
                        letter almost the first thing. He dropped everything,  and came, with his wife, to hunt that baby, because he had
                        always loved his brother dearly, and wanted him back. He had hunted for him
                        all he dared all these years, and when he got here you were goneI mean the
                        baby was gone, and I had to tell you, Freckles, for you see, it might have
                        happened to you like that just as easy as to that other lost boy."
                    Freckles reached up and turned the Angel's face until he compelled
                        her eyes to meet his.
                    "Angel," he asked softly, "why don't you
                        look at me when you are telling about that lost boy?"
                    "II didn't know I wasn't," faltered the
                        Angel.
                    "It seems to me," said Freckles, his breath beginning to
                        come in sharp wheezes, "that you got us pretty well mixed, and it
                        ain't like you to be mixing things till one can't be
                        knowing. If they were telling you so much, did they say which hand was for
                        being off that lost boy?"
                    The Angel's eyes escaped again.
                    "Itit was the same as yours," she ventured, barely
                        breathing in her fear.
                    Still Freckles lay rigid and whiter than the coverlet.
                    
                    "Would that boy be as old as me?" he asked.
                    "Yes," said the Angel faintly.
                    "Angel," said Freckles at last, catching her wrist,
                        "are you trying to tell me that there is somebody hunting a boy
                        that you're thinking might be me? Are you belavin'
                        you've found me relations?"
                    Then the Angel's eyes came home. The time had come. She pinioned
                        Freckles' arms to his sides and bent above him.
                    "How strong are you, dear heart?" she breathed.
                        "How brave are you? Can you bear it? Dare I tell you
                        that?"
                    "No!" gasped Freckles. "Not if you're
                        sure! I can't bear it! I'll die if you do!"
                    The day had been one unremitting strain with the Angel. Nerve tension was
                        drawn to the finest thread. It snapped suddenly.
                    "Die?" she flamed. "Die, if I tell you that! You
                        said this morning that you would die if you didn't know your name, and if your people were not
                        honourable. Now I've gone and found you a name that stands for ages
                        of honour, a mother that loved you enough to go into the fire and die for
                        you, and the nicest kind of  relatives, and
                        you turn round and say you'll die over that! You just
                            try dying and you'll get a good slap!"
                    The Angel stood glaring at him. One second Freckles lay paralysed and dumb
                        with astonishment. The next the Irish in his soul rose above everything. A
                        roar of laughter burst from him. The terrified Angel caught him in her arms
                        and tried to stifle the sound. She implored and commanded. The tears rolled
                        from Freckles' eyes and he wheezed on. When he was too worn out to
                        utter another sound, his eyes laughed silently.
                    After a long time, when he was quiet and rested, the Angel commenced talking
                        to him softly, and this time her great eyes, humid with tenderness and
                        mellow with happiness, seemed as if they could not leave his face.
                    "Dear Freckles," she was saying, "across your
                        knees there is the face of the mother that went into the fire for you, and I
                        know the nameold and full of honourto which you were born. Dear heart, which
                        will you have first?"
                    Freckles was very tired, and the big drops of perspiration ran together on
                        his temples; but the  watching Angel caught
                        the words his lips formed, "Me mother!"
                    She lifted the lovely pictured face and set it in the nook of his arm.
                        Freckles caught her hand and drew her down beside him, and together they
                        gazed at the picture while the tears slid over their cheeks.
                    "Me mother! Oh, me mother! Can you ever be forgiving me? Oh, me
                        beautiful little mother!" chanted Freckles over and over in exalted
                        wonder, until he was so completely exhausted that his lips refused to form
                        the question in his weary eyes.
                    "Wait!" cried the Angel with inborn refinement, for she
                        could no more answer that question than he could ask. "Wait, I will
                        write it!"
                    She hurried to the table, caught up the nurse's pencil, and on the
                        back of a prescription-tablet scrawled it, "Terence Maxwell
                        O'More, Dunderry House, County Clare, Ireland."
                    Before she had finished came Freckles' voice, "Angel, are
                        you hurrying?"
                    "Yes," said the Angel; "I am. But there is a good
                        deal of it I have to put in your house and county, so that you will feel
                        located."
                    
                    "Me house?" marvelled Freckles.
                    "Of course," said the Angel. "Your uncle says your
                        grandmother left your father her dower house and estate, because she knew
                        his father would cut him off. You get that, and all your share of your
                        grandfather's property besides. It is all set off for you and
                        waiting. Lord O'More told me so. I suspect you are richer than
                        McLean, Freckles."
                    She closed his fingers over the slip and straightened his hair.
                    "Now you are all right, dear Limberlost guard," she said.
                        "You go to sleep and don't think of a thing but just pure
                        joy, joy, joy! I'll keep your people until you wake up. You are too
                        tired to see any one else just now."
                    Freckles caught her skirt as she turned from him.
                    "I'll go to sleep in five minutes," he said,
                        "if you will be doing just one thing more for me. Send for your
                        father! Oh, Angel, send for him quick! How will I ever be waiting until he
                        gets here?"
                    One instant the Angel stood looking down on him. The next a crimson wave
                        darkly stained  her lovely face. Her chin
                        began a spasmodic quivering and the tears sprang into her eyes. Her hands
                        caught at her chest as if she were stifling. Freckles' grasp on her
                        tightened until he drew her up to and then down beside him. He slipped his
                        arm about her and drew her face to his pillow.
                    "Don't, Angel; for the love of mercy don't be
                        doing that," he implored. "I can't be bearing it.
                        Tell me. You must tell me."
                    The Angel shook her head.
                    "That ain't fair, Angel," said Freckles.
                        "You made me tell you when it was like tearing the heart raw from
                        me breast. And you was for making everything heavenjust heaven and nothing
                        else for me. If I'm so much more now than I was an hour ago, maybe
                        I can be thinking of some way to fix things. You will be telling
                        me?" he coaxed softly, moving his cheek against her hair.
                    The Angel's head moved in negation. Freckles did a moment of intent
                        thinking.
                    "Maybe I can be guessing," he whispered. "Will you
                        be giving me three chances?"
                    There was just the faintest possible assent.
                    
                    "You didn't want me to be knowing me name,"
                        guessed Freckles.
                    The Angel's head sprang from the pillow and her tear-stained face
                        flamed with outraged indignation.
                    "Why, I did too!" she burst out angrily.
                    "One gone," said Freckles calmly. "You
                        didn't want me to have relatives, a home, and money."
                    "I did!" screamed the Angel. "Didn't I go
                        myself, all alone, into the city, and find them when I was afraid as death?
                        I did too!"
                    "Two gone," said Freckles. "You didn't
                        want the beautifulest girl in the world to be telling me"
                    Down went the Angel's face and a heavy sob shook her.
                        Freckles' clasp tightened about her shoulders, and his face, in its
                        conflicting emotions, was a study. He was so stunned and bewildered over the
                        miracle that had been performed in bringing to light his name and relatives
                        that he had no strength left for elaborate mental processes. Despite all it
                        meant to him to know at last his name, and that he was of honourable
                        birthknowledge without which life was an 
                        eternal disgrace and burdenthe one thing that was hammering in
                        Freckles' heart and beating in his brain past any attempted
                        expression was the fact that, while nameless and possibly born in shame, the
                        Angel had told him that she loved him. He could find no word with which to
                        begin to voice the rapture of his heart over that. But if she regretted itif
                        it had been a thing done out of her pity for his condition, or her feeling
                        of responsibility, if it killed him after all, there was only one thing left
                        to do. Not for McLean, not for the Bird Woman, not for the Duncans would
                        Freckles have done itbut for the Angelif it would make her happyhe would do
                        anything.
                    "Angel," whispered Freckles, with his lips against her
                        hair, "you haven't learned your history-book very well, or
                        else you've forgotten."
                    "Forgotten what?" sobbed the Angel.
                    "Forgotten about the real knight, Ladybird," breathed
                        Freckles softly. "Don't you know that, if anything
                        happened that made his lady sorry, a real knight just simply
                        couldn't be remembering it? Angel, darling little Swamp Angel, you
                        be listening to me. There was one night on the trail, one solemn, grand,
                        white night,  that there wasn't ever
                        any other like before or since, when the dear Boss put his arm about me and
                        told me that he loved me; but if you care, Angel, if you don't want
                        it that way, why, I ain't remembering that anybody else ever didnot
                        in me whole life."
                    The Angel lifted her head and looked into the depths of Freckles'
                        honest gray eyes, and they met hers unwaveringly; but the pain in them was
                        pitiful.
                    "Do you mean," she demanded, "that you
                        don't remember that a brazen, forward girl told you, when you
                        hadn't asked her, that she"the Angel choked on it a
                        second, but she gave a gulp and brought it out bravely"that she
                        loved you?"
                    "No!" thundered Freckles. "No! I don't
                        remember anything of the kind!"
                    But all the song-birds of his soul burst into melody over that one little
                        clause: "When you hadn't asked her."
                    "But you will," said the Angel. "You may live to
                        be an old, old man, and then you will."
                    "I will not!" cried Freckles. "How can you think
                        it, Angel?"
                    
                    "You won't even look as if you
                        remember!"
                    "I will not!" persisted Freckles. "I'll
                        be swearing to it if you want me to. If you wasn't too tired to
                        think this thing out straight, you'd be seeing that I
                        couldn'tthat I just simply couldn't! I'd rather
                        give it all up now and go out into eternity alone, without ever seeing a
                        soul of me same blood, or me home, or hearing another man call me by the
                        name I was born to, than to remember anything that would be hurting you,
                        Angel. I should think you'd be understanding that it ain't
                        no ways possible for me to do it."
                    The Angel's tear-stained face flashed into dazzling beauty. A
                        half-hysterical little laugh broke from her heart and bubbled over her lips.
                    "Oh, Freckles, forgive me!" she cried.
                        "I've been through so much that I'm scarcely
                        myself, or I wouldn't be here bothering you when you should be
                        sleeping. Of course you couldn't! I knew it all the time! I was
                        just scared! I was forgetting that you were you! You're too good a
                        knight to remember a thing like that. Of course you are! And when you
                        don't remember, why, then it's the same as if it never
                        happened.  I was almost killed because
                        I'd gone and spoiled everything, but now it will be all right. Now
                        you can go on and do things like other men, and I can have some flowers, and
                        letters, and my sweetheart coming, and when you are sure,
                        why, then you can tell me things,
                        can't you? Oh, Freckles, I'm so glad! Oh, I'm so
                        happy! It's dear of you to not remember, Freckles; perfectly dear!
                        It's no wonder I love you so. The wonder would be if I did not. Oh,
                        I should like to know how I'm ever going to make you understand how
                        much I love you!"
                    Pillow and all, she caught him to her breast one long second, and then she
                        was gone.
                    Freckles lay dazed with astonishment. At last his batting eyes rolled about
                        the room, searching for something approaching the human to which he could
                        appeal, and, falling on his mother's portrait, he set it up before
                        him.
                    "For the love of life! Me little mother," he panted,
                        "did you hear that? Did you hear it! Tell me, am I living, or am I
                        dead and all heaven come true this minute? Did you hear it?"
                    He shook the frame in his impatience at getting no answer.
                    
                    "You are only a pictured face," he said at last,
                        "and of course you can't talk; but the soul of you must be
                        somewhere, and surely in this hour you are near enough to be hearing. Tell
                        me, did you hear that? I can't ever be telling a living soul; but
                        darling little mother, that gave your life for mine, I can always be talking
                        of it to you! Every day we'll talk it over and try to understand
                        the miracle of it. Tell me, are all women like that? Were you like me Swamp
                        Angel? If you were, then I'm understanding why me father followed
                        across the ocean and went into the fire after you."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XX
                    WHEREIN FRECKLES
                            RETURNS TO THE LIMBERLOST, AND
                            LORD O'MORE SAILS FOR IRELAND WITHOUT HIM
                    
                    FRECKLES' voice trailed off, his eyes dropped
                        shut, and his head rolled back from sheer exhaustion. Later in the day he
                        insisted on seeing Lord and Lady O'More, but he fainted before the
                        look of his own face on that of another man, and gave all of his friends a
                        terrible fright.
                    The next morning, the Man of Affairs, with a heart filled with misgivings,
                        undertook the interview on which Freckles insisted. His fears were without
                        cause. Freckles was the soul of honour and simplicity.
                    "Have they been telling you what's come to me?" he
                        asked without even waiting for a greeting.
                    "Yes," said the Angel's father.
                    "Do you think you have the very worst of it clear to your
                        understanding?"
                    
                    Under Freckles' earnest eyes the Man of Affairs answered soberly,
                        "I think I have, Mr. O'More."
                    That was the first time Freckles heard his name from the lips of another man.
                        One second he lay overcome; the next, great tears filled his eyes, and he
                        reached out his hand. Then the Angel's father understood, and he
                        clasped that hand and held it in a strong, firm grasp.
                    "Terence, my boy," he said, "let me do the
                        talking. I came in here with the understanding that you wanted to ask me for
                        my only child. I should like, at the proper time, to regard her marriage, if
                        she has found the man she desires to marry, not as losing all I have, but as
                        gaining a man I can depend on to love as a son and to take charge of my
                        affairs for her when I retire from business. Bend all of your energies
                        toward rapid recovery, and from this hour understand that my daughter and my
                        home are yours."
                    "You're not forgetting this?"
                    Freckles lifted his right arm.
                    "Terence, I'm sorrier than I have words to express about
                        that," said the Man of Affairs. "It's a damnable
                        pity! But if it's up to me to choose whether I give all I have left
                        in this world  to a man with a hand off his
                        body, or to one of these gambling, tippling, immoral spendthrifts of to-day,
                        with both hands and feet off their souls, and a rotten spot in the core, I
                        choose you; and it seems that my daughter does the same. Put what is left
                        you of that right arm to the best uses you can in this world, and never
                        again mention or feel that it is defective as long as you live. Good-day,
                        sir!"
                    "One minute more," said Freckles. "Yesterday the
                        Angel was telling me that there was money coming to me from two sources. She
                        said that me grandmother had left me father all of her fortune and her
                        house, because she knew that his father would be cutting him off, and that
                        me uncle had also set aside for me what would be me father's
                        interest in his father's estate.
                    "Whatever the sum is that me grandmother left me father, because she
                        loved him and wanted him to be having it, that I'll be taking.
                        'Twas hers from her father, and she had the right to be giving it
                        as she chose. Anything from the man that knowingly left me father and me
                        mother to go cold and hungry, and into the fire in misery, when just a
                        little would have made life so beautiful  to
                        them, and saved me this crippled bodymoney that he willed from me when he
                        knew I was living, of his blood and on charity among strangers, I
                        don't touch, not if I freeze, starve, and burn too! If there
                        ain't enough besides that, and I can't be earning enough
                        to fix things for the Angel"
                    "We are not discussing money!" burst in the Man of Affairs.
                        "We don't want any blood-money! We have all we need
                        without it. If you don't feel right and easy over it,
                        don't you touch a cent of any of it."
                    "It's right I should have what me grandmother intinded for
                        me father, and I want it," said Freckles, "but
                        I'd die before I'd touch a cent of me
                        grandfather's money!"
                    "Now," said the Angel, "we are all going home. We
                        have done all we can for Freckles. His people are here. He needs to know
                        them. They are very anxious to get acquainted with him. We'll turn
                        him over to them and go home. When he is well, why, then he will be
                        perfectly free to go to Ireland or come to the Limberlost, just as he
                        chooses. We will go right away."
                    McLean bore it for a week, and then he could stand it no longer. He was
                        heart-hungry for  Freckles. Communing with
                        himself in the long, soundful nights of the swamp, he had learned to his
                        astonishment that for the last year his heart had been circling the
                        Limberlost with Freckles. He began to wish that he had not left him. Perhaps
                        the boyhis boy by first right, after allwas being neglected. If the Boss had
                        been a nervous old woman, he could scarcely have imagined more things that
                        might be going wrong.
                    He started for Chicago, loaded with a big box of goldenrod, asters, fringed
                        gentians, and crimson leaves, that the Angel had carefully gathered from
                        Freckles' room, and a little, long, slender package. He travelled
                        with biting, stinging jealousy in his heart. He would not admit it even to
                        himself, but he was unable to remain longer away from Freckles and leave him
                        to the care of Lord O'More.
                    In a few minutes' talk, while McLean awaited admission to
                        Freckles' room, his lordship had genially chatted of
                        Freckles' rapid recovery, of his delight that he was unspotted by
                        his early surroundings, and his desire to visit the Limberlost with Freckles
                        before they sailed; he expressed the hope that he could prevail on the
                        Angel's  father to place her in his
                        wife's care and have her education finished in Paris. He said they
                        were anxious to do all they could to help bind Freckles'
                        arrangements with the Angel, as both he and Lady O'More regarded
                        her as the most promising girl they knew, and one that could be fully fitted
                        to fill the high position in which Freckles would place her.
                    Every word he uttered was pungent with bitterness to McLean. The swamp had
                        lost its flavour without Freckles; and yet, as Lord O'More talked,
                        McLean fervently wished that he was in the heart of it. As he entered
                        Freckles' room he almost lost his breath. Everything was changed.
                    Freckles lay by a window where he could follow Lake Michigan's blue
                        until the horizon dipped into it. He could see great soft clouds,
                        white-capped waves, shimmering sails, and big, puffing steamers trailing
                        billowing banners of lavender and gray across the sky. Gulls and curlews
                        wheeled over the water and dipped their wings in the foam. The room was
                        filled with every luxury that taste and money could introduce there.
                    
                    All the tan and sunburn had been washed from Freckles' face in
                        sweats of agony. It was a smooth, even white, its brown rift showing but
                        faintly. What the nurses and Lady O'More had done to
                        Freckles' hair McLean could not guess, but it was the most
                        beautiful that he had ever seen. Fine as floss, bright in colour, waving and
                        crisp, it fell about the white face.
                    They had gotten his arms into and his chest covered with a finely
                        embroidered, pale-blue silk shirt, with a soft, white tie at the throat.
                        Among the many changes that had taken place during his absence, the fact
                        that Freckles was most attractive and barely escaped being handsome remained
                        almost unnoticed by the Boss, so great was his astonishment at seeing both
                        cuffs turned back and the right arm in view. Freckles was using the maimed
                        arm that heretofore he had always hidden.
                    "Oh, Lord, sir, but I'm glad to see you!" burst
                        out Freckles, almost rolling from the bed as he reached for him.
                        "Tell me quick, is the Angel well and happy? Can me Little Chicken
                        spread six feet of wing and sail to his mother? How's me new
                        father, the Bird Woman, Duncans,  and
                        Nelliedarling little high-stepping Nellie? Me Aunt Alice is going to pick
                        the hat just as soon as I'm mended enough to be going with her. How
                        are all the gang? Have they found any more good trees? I've been
                        thinking a lot, sir. I believe I can find others near that last one. Me Aunt
                        Alice thinks maybe I can, and Uncle Terence says it's likely.
                        Golly, but they're nice, ilegant people. I tell you I'm
                        proud to be same blood with them! Come closer, quick! I was going to do this
                        yesterday, and somehow I just felt that you'd surely be coming
                        to-day, and I waited. I'm picking the Angel's ring stone.
                        The ring she ordered me is done and they sent it to keep me company. See?
                        It's an emeraldjust me colour, Lord O'More says."
                    Freckles flourished his hand.
                    "Ain't that a beauty? Never took so much comfort with
                        anything in me life. Every colour of the old swamp is in it. I asked Angel
                        to have a little shamrock leaf cut on it, so every time I saw it
                        I'd be thinking of the love, truth, and valour of that song she was
                        teaching me. Ain't that a beautiful song? Some of these days
                        I'm going to make it ring. I'm a little afraid to be  doing it with me voice yet, but me
                        heart's just tuning away on it every blessed hour. Will you be
                        looking at these now?"
                    Freckles tilted about a tray of unset stones from Peacock's that
                        would have ransomed several valuable kings. He held them out to McLean,
                        stirring them about with his right arm.
                    "I tell you I'm glad to see you, sir," he said.
                    "I tried to tell me uncle what I wanted, but this ain't for
                        him to be mixed up in, anyway, and I don't think I made it clear to
                        him. I couldn't seem to say the words I wanted. I can be telling
                        you, sir."
                    McLean's heart began to thump like a lover's.
                    "Go on, Freckles," he said assuringly.
                    "It's this," said Freckles. "I told him
                        that I would pay only three hundred dollars for the Angel's stone.
                        I'm thinking that with what he has laid up for me, and the bigness
                        of things that the Angel did for me, that seems like a stingy little sum to
                        him. I know he thinks I ought to be giving a lot more, but I feel as if I
                        just had to be buying that stone with money I earned meself; and that is all
                        I have saved of me wages. I don't mind paying for the muff, or the
                             dressing-table, or Mrs. Duncan's
                        things, from that other money, and later the Angel can have every last cent
                        of me grandmother's, if she'll take it; but just nowoh,
                        sir, can't you see that I have to be buying this stone with what I
                        have in the bank? I'm feeling that I couldn't do any other
                        way, and don't you think the Angel would rather have the best stone
                        I can buy with the money I earned meself than a finer one paid for with
                        other money?"
                    "In other words, Freckles," said the Boss, in a thick
                        voice, "you don't want to buy the Angel's ring
                        with money. You want to give for it your first awful fear of the swamp. You
                        want to pay for it with the loneliness and heart-hunger you have suffered
                        there, with last winter's freezing on the line and this
                        summer's burning in the sun. You want it to stand to her for every
                        hour in which you risked your life to honourably fulfil your contract. You
                        want the price of that stone to be the fears that have chilled your heartthe
                        sweat and blood of your body."
                    Freckles' eyes were floating in tears and his face quivering with
                        feeling.
                    "Dear Mr. McLean," he said, reaching up with  a caress over the Boss's black hair
                        and along his cheek. "Dear Boss, that's why I've
                        wanted you so. I knew you would know. Now will you be looking at these? I
                        don't want emeralds, because that's what she gave
                        me."
                    He pushed the green stones back into a little heap of rejected ones. Then he
                        singled out all the pearls.
                    "Ain't they pretty things?" he said.
                        "I'll be getting her a lot of those later. They are like
                        lily faces, turtle-head flowers, or dew-drops in the shade or moonlight; but
                        they haven't the life in them that I want in the stone I give to
                        the Angel right now."
                    Freckles heaped the pearls with the emeralds. He studied the diamonds a long
                        time.
                    "These things are so fascinating like they almost tempt one, though
                        they ain't quite the proper thing," he said.
                        "I've always dearly loved to be watching yours, sir. I
                        must get her some of these big ones, too, some day. They're like
                        the Limberlost in January, when it's all ice-coated, and the sun
                        gets over in the west and shines through and makes all you can see of the
                        whole world look like fire and ice; but fire and ice ain't like the
                        Angel."
                    
                    The diamonds joined the emeralds and pearls. There was left a little red
                        heap, and Freckles' fingers touched it with a new tenderness. His
                        eyes were flashing.
                    "I'm thinking here's me Angel's
                        stone," he exulted. "The Limberlost, and me with it, grew
                        in mine; but it's going to bloom, and her with it, in this!
                        There's the red of the wild poppies, the cardinal-flowers, and the
                        little bunch of crushed foxfire that we found where she put it to save me.
                        There's the light of the camp-fire, and the sun setting over Sleepy
                        Snake Creek. There's the red of the blood we were willing to give
                        for each other. It's like her lips, and like the drops that dried
                        on her beautiful arm that first day, and I'm thinking it must be
                        like the brave, tender, clean, red heart of her."
                    Freckles lifted the ruby to his lips and handed it to McLean.
                    "I'll be signing up me checks and you have it
                        set," he said. "I want you to draw me money and pay for it
                        with those very same dollars, sir."
                    Again the heart of McLean took hope.
                    "Freckles, may I ask you something?" he said.
                    
                    "Why, sure," said Freckles. "There's
                        nothing you would be asking that it wouldn't be giving me joy to be
                        telling you."
                    McLean's eyes travelled to Freckles' right arm with which
                        he was pushing the jewels about.
                    "Oh, that!" cried Freckles with a merry laugh.
                        "You're wanting to know where all the bitterness is gone?
                        Well, sir, 'twas carried from me soul, heart, and body on the lips
                        of an Angel. Seems that hurt was necessary in the beginning to make to-day
                        come true. The wound had always been raw, but the Angel was healing it. If
                        she doesn't care, I don't. Me dear new father
                        doesn't, nor me aunt and uncle, and you never did. Why should I be
                        fretting all me life about what can't be helped. The real truth is
                        that, since what happened to it last week, I'm so everlastingly
                        proud of it I catch meself sticking it out on display a bit."
                    Freckles looked the Boss in the eyes and burst into a laugh.
                    "Well, thank heaven!" said McLean.
                    "Now it's me turn," said Freckles. "I
                        don't know as I ought to be asking you, and yet I can't
                        see a reason good enough to keep me from  it.
                        It's a thing I've had on me mind every hour since
                        I've had time to straighten things out a little. May I be asking
                        you a question?"
                    McLean reached over and took Freckles' hand. His voice was shaken
                        with feeling as he replied: "Freckles, you almost hurt me. Will you
                        never learn how much you are to me? How happy you make me in coming to me
                        with anything, no matter what!"
                    "Then it's this," said Freckles, gripping the hand
                        of McLean strongly. "If this accident, and all that's come
                        to me since, had never happened, where was it you had planned to send me to
                        school? What was it you meant to do with me?"
                    "Why, Freckles," answered McLean, "I'm
                        hardly prepared to state definitely. My ideas were rather hazy. I thought we
                        would make a beginning and see which way things went. I figured on taking
                        you to Grand Rapids first, and putting you in the care of my mother. I had
                        an idea it would be best to get a private tutor to coach you for a year or
                        two, until you were fit to enter Ann Arbor or the Chicago University in good
                        shape. Then I thought we'd finish in this  country at Yale or Harvard, and end with Oxford, to get a
                        good, all-round flavour."
                    "Is that all?" asked Freckles.
                    "No; that's leaving the music out," said McLean.
                        "I intended to have your voice tested by some master, and if you
                        really were endowed for a career as a great musician, and had inclinations
                        that way, I wished to have you drop some of the college work and make music
                        your chief study. Finally, I wanted us to take a trip over Europe and clear
                        around the circle together."
                    "And then what?" queried Freckles, breathlessly.
                    "Why, then," said McLean, "you know that my heart
                        is hopelessly in the woods. I will never quit the timber business while
                        there is timber to handle and breath in my body. I thought if you
                        didn't make a profession of music, and had any inclination my way,
                        we would stretch the partnership one more, and take you into the firm,
                        placing your work with me. Those plans may sound jumbled in the telling, but
                        they have grown steadily on me, Freckles, as you have grown dear to
                        me."
                    
                    Freckles lifted anxious and eager eyes to McLean.
                    "You told me once on the trail, and again when we thought that I was
                        dying, that you loved me. Do these things that have come to me make any
                        difference in any way with your feeling toward me?"
                    "None," said McLean. "How could they, Freckles?
                        Nothing could make me love you more, and you will never do anything that
                        will make me love you less."
                    "Glory be to God!" burst out Freckles. "Glory to
                        the Almighty! Hurry and be telling your mother I'm coming! Just as
                        soon as I can get on me feet I'll be taking that ring to me Angel,
                        and then I'll go to Grand Rapids and be making me start just as you
                        planned, only that I can be paying me own way. When I'm educated
                        enough, we'll allthe Angel and her father, the Bird Woman, you, and
                        meall of us will go together and see me house and me relations and be taking
                        that trip. When we get back, we'll add O'More to the
                        Lumber Company, and golly, sir, but we'll make things hum! Good
                        land, sir! Don't do that! Why, Mr. McLean,  dear Boss, dear father, don't be doing that! What is
                        it?"
                    "Nothing, nothing!" boomed McLean's deep bass;
                        "nothing at all!"
                    He abruptly turned away and hurried to the window.
                    "This is a mighty fine view," he said.
                        "Lake's beautiful this morning. No wonder Chicago people
                        are so proud of their city's location on its shore. But, Freckles,
                        what is Lord O'More going to say to this?"
                    "I don't know," said Freckles. "I am
                        going to be cut deep if he cares, for he's been more than good to
                        me, and Lady Alice is next to me Angel. He's made me feel me blood
                        and race me own possession. She's talked to me by the hour of me
                        father and mother and me grandmother. She's made them all that real
                        I can lay claim to them and feel that they are mine. I'm very sorry
                        to be hurting them, if it will, but it can't be changed. Nobody
                        ever gets the width of the ocean between me and the Angel. From here to the
                        Limberlost is all I can be bearing peaceable. I want the education, and then
                        I want to work and live here in the country where I was born  and where the ashes of me father and mother
                        rest.
                    "I'll be glad to see Ireland, and glad especial to see
                        those little people that are my kin, but I ain't ever staying long. All me heart is the Angel's, and the
                        Limberlost is calling every minute. You're thinking, sir, that when
                        I look out of that window I see the beautiful water, ain't you?
                        I'm not.
                    "I see soft, slow clouds oozing across the blue, me big black
                        chickens hanging up there, and a great feather softly sliding down. I see
                        mighty trees, swinging vines, bright flowers, and always masses of the wild
                        roses, with the wild rose face of me Ladybird looking through. I see the
                        swale rocking, smell the sweetness of the blooming things, and the damp,
                        mucky odour of the swamp; and I hear me birds sing, me squirrels bark, the
                        rattlers hiss, and the step of Wessner or Black Jack coming; and whether
                        it's the things that I loved or the things that I feared,
                        it's all a part of the day.
                    "Me heart's all me Swamp Angel's, and me love is
                        all hers, and I have her and the swamp so confused in me mind I never can be
                        separating them. When I look at her, I see blue sky, the  sun rifting through the leaves and pink and
                        red flowers; and when I look at the Limberlost I see a pink face with blue
                        eyes, gold hair, and red lips, and, it's the truth, sir,
                        they're mixed till they're one to me!
                    "I'm afraid it will be hurting some, but I have the feeling
                        that I can be making my dear people understand, so that they will be willing
                        to let me come back home. Send Lady O'More to put these flowers God
                        made in the place of these glass-house ilegancies, and please be cutting the
                        string of this little package the Angel's sent me."
                    As Freckles held up the package, the lights of the Limberlost flashed in the
                        emerald on his finger. On the cover was printed: "To the Limberlost
                        Guard!" Under it was a big, crisp, iridescent black feather.
                
            
        
    
