
     ----CITATION---- 
        Riley, James Whitcomb, 1849-1916. The Lockerbie Book: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2380
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                The Lockerbie Book of Riley Verse
                
            
            
            
            
                THE LOCKERBIE BOOK
                
            
            
            
                
                    The Lockerbie Book
                    Containing Poems Not in Dialect
                
                By
                    James Whitcomb Riley
                Collected and Arranged by Hewitt Hanson Howland
                
                    INDIANAPOLIS
                    THE BOBBS-MERRILL COMPANY PUBLISHERS
                
            
            
            
                COPY RIGHT 1911, JAMES WITCOMB
                        RILEY
                
            
            
            
                TO JUDGE E. B. MARTINDALE
            
            
            
            
                INTRODUCTION
                It is something of a literary presumption to introduce to any one that can read, a volume that bears
                    on its title page the name of James Whitcomb Riley. And yet because of its departure from the
                    naturally expected, this collection seems to make an introduction not only pertinent but courteous
                    as well.
                When we were all some years younger than we are now, "Benj. F. Johnson of Boone"
                    dipped his rosy muse in the melodious waters of The Old Swimmin'-Hole and brought her forth
                    wearing on her shining forehead the homely but imperishable sign of dialect.
                The century that was then old has gone to its final reckoning, and ten full years have been recorded
                    against its young successor. During this time it has been given to "Benj. F.
                    Johnson" to write much. In the fourteen volumes that now represent his collected verse,
                    almost every poetic form finds a place, and normal English, in distinction from dialect, holds an
                    equal authority. Yet if you say "Riley" to the man in the street he will reply:
                    "When the frost is on the punkin and the fodder's in the shock." The
                    poet, I am sure, has no grievance with this answer; nor is there quarrel anywhere with the fixed
                    association of Riley's name  with his homelier form of verse.
                    Such an alliance is as worthy as it is inevitable. His destinies are garlanded with old fashioned
                    roses and time will judge him and reward him accordingly.
                As a consequence, however, his normal English verse is not, perhaps, fully recognized either for its
                    extent or for its quality. And so in this belief, as well as in answer to an ever-continuing demand,
                    these poems have been brought together and the volume comprising them named for the little street in
                    which their author has long lived and worked.
                For permission to reprint certain poems here included grateful acknowledgment is made to Messrs.
                    Charles Scribner's Sons and the Century Company, of New York.
                H. H. H.
            
        
        
            
            
                THE LOCKERBIE BOOK
            
                THE LOCKERBIE BOOK
                
                    AFTERWHILES
                    
                        Lockerbie Street
                        
                            SUCH a dear little street it is, nestled away
                            From the noise of the city and heat of the day,
                            In cool shady coverts of whispering trees,
                            With their leaves lifted up to shake hands with the breeze
                            Which in all its wide wanderings never may meet
                            With a resting-place fairer than Lockerbie street!
                        
                        
                            There is such a relief, from the clangor and din
                            Of the heart of the town, to go loitering in
                            Through the dim, narrow walks, with the sheltering shade
                            Of the trees waving over the long promenade,
                            And littering lightly the ways of our feet
                            With the gold of the sunshine of Lockerbie street.
                        
                        
                            And the nights that come down the dark pathways of dusk,
                            With the stars in their tresses, and odors of musk
                            In their moon-woven raiments, bespangled with dews,
                            And looped up with lilies for lovers to use
                            In the songs that they sing to the tinkle and beat
                            Of their sweet serenadings through Lockerbie street.
                        
                        
                        
                            O my Lockerbie street! You are fair to be seen
                            Be it noon of the day, or the rare and serene
                            Afternoon of the nightyou are one to my heart,
                            And I love you above all the phrases of art,
                            For no language could frame and no lips could repeat
                            My rhyme-haunted raptures of Lockerbie street.
                        
                    
                    
                        A Discouraging Model
                        
                            JUST the airiest, fairiest slip of a thing,
                            With a Gainsborough hat, like a butterfly's wing,
                            Tilted up at one side with the jauntiest air,
                            And a knot of red roses sown in under there
                            Where the shadows are lost in her hair.
                        
                        
                            Then a cameo face, carven in on a ground
                            Of that shadowy hair where the roses are wound;
                            And the gleam of a smile, O as fair and as faint
                            And as sweet as the masters of old used to paint
                            Round the lips of their favorite saint!
                        
                        
                            And that lace at her throatand the fluttering hands
                            Snowing there, with a grace that no art understands,
                            The flakes of their touchesfirst fluttering at
                            The bowthen the rosesthe hairand then that
                            Little tilt of the Gainsborough hat.
                        
                        
                        
                            Ah, what artist on earth with a model like this,
                            Holding not on his palette the tint of a kiss,
                            Nor a pigment to hint of the hue of her hair
                            Nor the gold of her smile-0 what artist could dare
                            To expect a result half so fair?
                        
                    
                    
                        Away
                        
                            I CANNOT say, and I will not say
                            That he is dead.He is just away!
                        
                        
                            With a cheery smile, and a wave of the hand,
                            He has wandered into an unknown land,
                        
                        
                            And left us dreaming how very fair
                            It needs must be, since he lingers there.
                        
                        
                            And you-0 you, who the wildest yearn
                            For the old-time step and the glad return,
                        
                        
                            Think of him faring on, as dear
                            In the love of There as the love of Here;
                        
                        
                            And loyal still, as he gave the blows
                            Of his warrior-strength to his country's foes.
                        
                        
                            Mild and gentle, as he was brave,
                            When the sweetest love of his life he gave
                        
                        
                            To simple things: Where the violets grew
                            Blue as the eyes they were likened to, 3
                        
                        
                        
                            The touches of his hands have strayed
                            As reverently as his lips have prayed:
                        
                        
                            When the little brown thrush that harshly chirred
                            Was dear to him as the mocking-bird;
                        
                        
                            And he pitied as much as a man in pain
                            A writhing honey-bee wet with rain.
                        
                        
                            Think of him still as the same, I say:
                            He is not deadhe is just away!
                        
                    
                    
                        A Life-Lesson
                        
                            THERE! little girl; don't cry!
                            They have broken your doll, I know;
                            And your tea-set blue,
                            And your play-house, too,
                            Are things of the long ago;
                            But childish troubles will soon pass by.
                            There! little girl; don't cry!
                        
                        
                            There! little girl; don't cry!
                            They have broken your slate, I know;
                            And the glad, wild ways
                            Of your school-girl days
                            Are things of the long ago;
                            But life and love will soon come by.
                            There! little girl; don't cry!
                        
                        
                        
                            There! little girl; don't cry!
                            They have broken your heart, I know;
                            And the rainbow gleams
                            Of your youthful dreams
                            Are things of the long ago;
                            But Heaven holds all for which you sigh
                            There! little girl; don't cry!
                        
                    
                    
                        Herr Weiser
                        
                            HERR WEISER!Threescore-years-and-ten,
                            A hale white rose of his countrymen,
                            Transplanted here in the Hoosier loam,
                            And blossomy as his German home
                            As blossomy and as pure and sweet
                            As the cool green glen of his calm retreat,
                            Far withdrawn from the noisy town
                            Where trade goes clamoring up and down,
                            Whose fret and fever, and stress and strife,
                            May not trouble his tranquil life!
                        
                        
                            Breath of rest, what a balmy gust!
                            Quit of the city's heat and dust,
                            Jostling down by the winding road,
                            Through the orchard ways of his quaint abode.
                            Tether the horse, as we onward fare
                            Under the pear-trees trailing there,
                            And thumping the wooden bridge at night
                            With lumps of ripeness and lush delight,
                            Till the stream, as it maunders on till dawn,
                            Is powdered and pelted and smiled upon.
                        
                        
                        
                            Herr Weiser, with his wholesome face,
                            And the gentle blue of his eyes, and grace
                            Of unassuming honesty,
                            Be there to welcome you and me!
                            And what though the toil of the farm be stopped
                            And the tireless plans of the place be dropped,
                            While the prayerful master's knees are set
                            In beds of pansy and mignonette
                            And lily and aster and columbine,
                            Offered in love, as yours and mine?
                        
                        
                            What, but a blessing of kindly thought,
                            Sweet as the breath of forget-me-not!
                            What, but a spirit of lustrous love
                            White as the aster he bends above!
                            What, but an odorous memory
                            Of the dear old man, made known to me
                            In days demanding a help like his,
                            As sweet as the life of the lily is
                            As sweet as the soul of a babe, bloom-wise
                            Born of a lily in paradise.
                        
                    
                    
                        Out to Old Aunt Mary's
                        
                            WASN'T it pleasant, 0 brother mine,
                            In those old days of the lost sunshine
                            Of youthwhen the Saturday's chores were through,
                            And the "Sunday's wood" in the kitchen, too,
                            And we went visiting, "me and you,"
                            Out to Old Aunt Mary's?
                        
                        
                        
                            "Me and you" And the morning fair,
                            With the dewdrops twinkling everywhere;
                            The scent of the cherry-blossoms blown
                            After us, in the roadway lone,
                            Our capering shadows onward thrown
                            Out to Old Aunt Mary's!
                        
                        
                            It all comes back so clear to-day!
                            Though I am as bald as you are gray,
                            Out by the barn-lot and down the lane
                            We patter along in the dust again,
                            As light as the tips of the drops of the rain,
                            Out to Old Aunt Mary's.
                        
                        
                            The few last houses of the town;,
                            Then on, up the high creek-bluffs and down;
                            Past the squat tollgate, with its well-sweep pole;
                            The bridge, and "The old
                                'Babtizin'-hole'"
                            Loitering, awed, o'er pool and shoal,
                            Out to Old Aunt Mary's.
                        
                        
                            We cross the pasture, and through the wood,
                            Where the old gray snag of the poplar stood,
                            Where the hammering "red-heads" hopped awry,
                            And the buzzard "raised" in the "clearing"-sky
                            And lolled and circled, as we went by
                            Out to Old Aunt Mary's.
                        
                        
                            Or, stayed by the glint of the redbird's wings,
                            Or the glitter of song that the bluebird sings,
                            All hushed we feign to strike strange trails,
                            As the "big braves" do in the Indian tales,
                            Till again our real quest lags and fails
                            Out to old Aunt Mary's.
                        
                        
                        
                            And the woodland echoes with yells of mirth
                            That make old war-whoops of minor worth!
                            Where such heroes of war as we?
                            With bows and arrows of fantasy,
                            Chasing each other from tree to tree
                            Out to Old Aunt Mary's!
                        
                        
                            And then in the dust of the road again;
                            And the teams we met, and the countrymen;
                            And the long highway, with sunshine spread
                            As thick as butter on country bread,
                            Our cares behind, and our hearts ahead
                            Out to Old Aunt Mary's.
                        
                        
                            For only, now, at the road's next bend
                            To the right we could make out the gable-end
                            Of the fine old Huston homesteadnot
                            Half a mile from the sacred spot
                            Where dwelt our Saint in her simple cot
                            Out to Old Aunt Mary's.
                        
                        
                            Why, I see her now in the open door
                            Where the little gourds grew up the sides and o'er
                            The clapboard roof!And her faceah, me!
                            Wasn't it good for a boy to see
                            And wasn't it good for a boy to be
                            Out to Old Aunt Mary's?
                        
                        
                            The jelly-the jam and the marmalade,
                            And the cherry- and quince-">preserves">she made!
                            And the sweet-sour pickles of peach and pear,
                            With cinnamon in 'em, and all things rare!
                            And the more we ate was the more to spare,
                            Out to Old Aunt Mary's!
                        
                        
                        
                            Ah! was there, ever, so kind a face
                            And gentle as hers, or such a grace
                            Of welcoming, as she cut the cake
                            Or the juicy pies that she joyed to make
                            Just for the visiting children's sake
                            Out to Old Aunt Mary's.
                        
                        
                            The honey, too, in its amber comb
                            One only finds in an old farm-home;
                            And the coffee, fragrant and sweet, and ho!
                            So hot that we gloried to drink it so,
                            With spangles of tears in our eyes, you know
                            Out to Old Aunt Mary's.
                        
                        
                            And the romps we took, in our glad unrest!
                            Was it the lawn that we loved the best,
                            With its swooping swing in the locust trees,
                            Or was it the grove, with its leafy breeze,
                            Or the dim hay-mow, with its fragrancies
                            Out to Old Aunt Mary's.
                        
                        
                            Far fields, bottom-lands, creek-banksall,
                            We ranged at will.Where the waterfall
                            Laughed all day as it slowly poured
                            Over the dam by the old mill-ford,
                            While the tail-race writhed, and the mill-wheel roared
                            Out to Old Aunt Mary's.
                        
                        
                            But home, with Aunty in nearer call,
                            That was the best place, after all!
                            The talks on the back-porch, in the low
                            Slanting sun and the evening glow,
                            With the voice of counsel that touched us so,
                            Out to Old Aunt Mary's.
                        
                        
                        
                            And then, in the gardennear the side
                            Where the bee-hives were and the path was wide,
                            The apple-houselike a fairy cell
                            With the little square door we knew so well,
                            And the wealth inside but our tongues could tell
                            Out to Old Aunt Mary's.
                        
                        
                            And the old spring-house, in the cool green gloom
                            Of the willow trees; and the cooler room
                            Where the swinging shelves and the crocks were kept,
                            Where the cream in a golden languor slept,
                            While the waters gurgled and laughed and wept
                            Out to Old Aunt Mary's.
                        
                        
                            And as many a time have you and I
                            Barefoot boys in the days gone`by
                            Knelt, and in tremulous ecstasies
                            Dipped our lips into sweets like these,
                            Memory now is on her knees
                            Out to Old Aunt Mary's.
                        
                        
                            For, O my brother, to far away,
                            This is to tell you-she waits to-day
                            
                            To welcome us:Aunt Mary fell
                            Asleep this morning, whispering, "Tell
                            The boys to come" . . . And all is well
                            Out to Old Aunt Mary's.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        When June is Here
                        
                            WHEN June is herewhat art have we to sing
                            The whiteness of the lilies 'midst the green
                            Of noon-tranced lawns? or flash of roses seen
                            Like redbirds' wings? or earliest ripening
                            Prince-Harvest apples, where the cloyed bees cling
                            Round winey juices oozing down between
                            The peckings of the robin, while we lean
                            In under-grasses, lost in marvelling;
                            Or the cool term of morning, and the stir
                            Of odorous breaths from wood and meadow walks;
                            The Bob-white's liquid yodel, and the whir
                            Of sudden flight; and, where the milkmaid talks
                            Across the bars, on tilted barley-stalks
                            The dewdrops' glint in webs of gossamer.
                        
                    
                    
                        A Scrawl
                        
                            I WANT to sing somethingbut this is all
                            I try and I try, but the rhymes are dull
                            As though they were damp, and the echoes fall
                            Limp and unlovable.
                        
                        
                            Words will not say what I yearn to say
                            They will not walk as I want them to,
                            But they stumble and fall in the path of the way
                            Of my telling my love for you.
                        
                        
                            Simply take what the scrawl is worth
                            Knowing I love you as sun the sod
                            On the ripening side of the great round earth
                            That swings in the smile of God.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        To Santa Claus
                        
                            MOST tangible of all the gods that be,
                            O Santa Clausour own since Infancy!
                            As first we scampered to theenow, as then,
                            Take us as children to thy heart again.
                        
                        
                            Be wholly good to us, just as of old:
                            As a pleased father, let thine arms infold
                            Us, homed within the haven of thy love,
                            And all the cheer and wholesomeness thereof.
                        
                        
                            Thou lone reality, when O so long
                            Life's unrealities have wrought us wrong:
                            Ambition hath allured us,fame likewise,
                            And all that promised honor in men's eyes.
                        
                        
                            Throughout the world's evasions, wiles, and shifts,
                            Thou only bidest stable as thy gifts:
                            A grateful king re-ruleth from thy lap,
                            Crowned with a little tinselled soldiercap:
                        
                        
                            A mighty generala nation's pride
                            Thou givest again a rocking-horse to ride,
                            And wildly glad he groweth as the grim
                            Old jurist with the drum thou givest him:
                        
                        
                            The sculptor's chisel, at thy mirth's command,
                            Is as a whistle in his boyish hand;
                            The painter's model fadeth utterly,
                            And there thou standest,and he painteth thee:
                        
                        
                            Most like a winter pippin, sound and fine
                            And tingling-red that ripe old face of thine,
                            
                            Set in thy frosty beard of cheek and chin
                            As midst the snows the thaws of spring set in.
                        
                        
                            Ho! Santa Clausour own since Infancy
                            Most tangible of all the gods that be!
                            As first we scampered to theenow, as then,
                            Take us as children to thy heart again.
                        
                    
                    
                        A Bride
                        
                            "O I AM weary!" she sighed, as her billowy
                            Hair she unloosed in a torrent of gold
                            That rippled and fell o'er a figure as willowy,
                            Graceful and fair as a goddess of old:
                            Over her jewels she flung herself drearily,
                            Crumpled the laces that snowed on her breast,
                            Crushed with her fingers the lily that wearily
                            Clung in her hair like a dove in its nest.
                            And naught but her shadowy form in the mirror
                            To kneel in dumb agony down and weep near her!
                        
                        
                            "Weary?"of what? Could we fathom the mystery?
                            Lift up the lashes weighed down by her tears
                            And wash with their dews one white face from her history,
                            Set like a gem in the red rust of years?
                            Nothing will rest herunless he who died of her
                            Strayed from his grave, and, in place of the groom,
                            Tipping her face, kneeling there by the side of her,
                            Drained the old kiss to the dregs of his doom.
                            And naught but that shadowy form in the mirror
                            To kneel in dumb agony down and weep near her!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Dusk
                        
                            THE frightened herds of clouds across the sky
                            Trample the sunshine down, and chase the day
                            Into the dusky forest-lands of gray
                            And sombre twilight. Far, and faint, and high,
                            The wild goose trails his harrow, with a cry
                            Sad as the wail of some poor castaway
                            Who sees a vessel drifting far astray
                            Of his last hope, and lays him down to die.
                            The children, riotous from school, grow bold
                            And quarrel with the wind whose angry gust
                            Plucks off the summer-hat, and flaps the fold
                            Of many a crimson cloak, and twirls the dust
                            In spiral shapes grotesque, and dims the gold
                            Of gleaming tresses with the blur of rust.
                        
                    
                    
                        Das Krist Kindel
                        
                            I HAD fed the fire and stirred it, till the sparkles in delight
                            Snapped their saucy little fingers at the chill December night;
                            And in dressing-gown and slippers, I had tilted back "my throne"
                            The old split-bottomed rockerand was musing all alone.
                            I could hear the hungry Winter prowling round the outer door,
                            And the tread of muffled footsteps: on: the white piazza floor;
                            
                            But the sounds came to me only as the murmur of a stream
                            That mingled with the current of a lazy-flowing dream.
                        
                        
                            Like a fragrant incense rising, curled the smoke of my cigar,
                            With the lamplight gleaming through it like a mist-enfolded star;
                            And as I gazed, the vapor like a curtain rolled away,
                            With a sound of bells that tinkled, and the clatter of a sleigh.
                        
                        
                            And in a vision, painted like a picture in the air,
                            I saw the elfish figure of a man with frosty hair
                            A quaint old man that chuckled with a laugh as he appeared,
                            And with ruddy cheeks like embers in the ashes of his beard.
                        
                        
                            He poised himself grotesquely, in an attitude of mirth,
                            On a damask-coveredhassock that was sitting on the hearth;
                            And at a magic signal of his stubby little thumb,
                            I saw the fireplace changing to a bright proscenium.
                        
                        
                            And looking there, I marvelled as I saw a mimic stage
                            Alive with little actors of a very tender age;
                            And some so very tiny that they tottered as they walked,
                            And lisped and purled and gurgled like the brooklets, when they talked.
                        
                        
                        
                            And their faces were like lilies, and their eyes like purest dew,
                            And their tresses like the shadows that the shine is woven through;
                            And they each had little burdens, and a little tale to tell
                            Of fairy lore, and giants, and delights delectable.
                        
                        
                            And they mixed and intermingled, weaving melody with joy,
                            Till the magic circle clustered round a blooming baby-boy;
                            And they threw aside their treasures in an ecstasy of glee,
                            And bent, with dazzled faces and with parted lips, to see.
                        
                        
                            'Twas a wondrous little fellow, with a dainty double-chin,
                            And chubby cheeks, and dimples for the smiles to blossom in;
                            And he looked as ripe and rosy, on his bed of straw and reeds,
                            As a mellow little pippin that had tumbled in the weeds.
                        
                        
                            And I saw the happy mother, and a group surrounding her
                            That knelt with costly presents of frankincense and myrrh;
                            And I thrilled with awe and wonder, as a murmur on the air
                            Came drifting o'er the hearing in a melody of prayer:
                        
                        
                            
                                By the splendor in the heavens, and the hash upon the sea,
                            
                            
                                And the majesty of silence reigning over Galilee,
                            
                            
                                We feel Thy kingly presence, and we humbly bow the knee
                            
                            
                                And lift oar hearts and voices in gratefulness to Thee.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            
                                Thy messenger has spoken, and our doubts have fled and gone
                            
                            
                                As the dark and spectral shadows of the night before the dawn;
                            
                            
                                And, in the kindly shelter of the light around us drawn,
                            
                            
                                We would nestle down forever in the breast we lean upon.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                You have given us a shepherdYou have given us a guide,
                            
                            
                                And the light of Heaven grew dimmer when You sent him from Your side,
                            
                            
                                But he comes to lead Thy children where the gates will open wide
                            
                            
                                To welcome his returning when his works are glorified.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                By the splendor in the heavens, and the hush upon the sea,
                            
                            
                                And the majesty of silence reigning over Galilee,
                            
                            
                                We feel Thy kingly presence, and we humbly bow the knee
                            
                            
                                And lift our hearts and voices in gratefulness to Thee.
                            
                        
                        
                            Then the vision, slowly failing, with the words of the refrain,
                            Fell swooning in the moonlight through the frosty window-pane;
                            And I heard the clock proclaiming, like an eager sentinel
                            Who brings the world good tidings,"It is Christmas all is
                            well!"
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        June
                        
                            O QUEENLY month of indolent repose!
                            I drink thy breath in sips of rare perfume,
                            As in thy downy lap of clover-bloom
                            I nestle like a drowsy child and doze
                            The lazy hours away. The zephyr throws
                            The shifting shuttle of the Summer's loom
                            And weaves a damask-work of gleam and gloom
                            Before thy listless feet. The lily blows
                            A bugle-call of fragrance o'er the glade;
                            And, wheeling into ranks, with plume and spear,
                            Thy harvest-armies gather on parade;
                            While, faint and far away, yet pure and clear,
                            A voice calls out of alien lands of shade:
                            All hail the Peerless Goddess of the Year!
                        
                    
                    
                        The South Wind and the Sun
                        
                            O THE South Wind and the Sun!
                            How each loved the other one
                            Full of fancyfull of folly
                            Full of jollity and fun!
                            How they romped and ran about,
                            Like two boys when school is out.
                            With glowing face, and lisping lip,
                            Low laugh, and lifted shout!
                        
                        
                            And the South Windhe was dressed
                            With a ribbon round his breast
                            That floated, napped and fluttered
                            In a riotous unrest,
                            
                            And a drapery of mist
                            From the shoulder and the wrist
                            Flowing backward with the motion
                            Of the waving hand he kissed.
                        
                        
                            And the Sun had on a crown
                            Wrought of gilded thistle-down,
                            And a scarf of velvet vapor,
                            And a ravelled-rainbow gown;
                            And his tinsel-tangled hair,
                            Tossed and lost upon the air,
                            Was glossier and flossier
                            Than any anywhere.
                        
                        
                            And the South Wind's eyes were two
                            Little dancing drops of dew,
                            As he puffed his cheeks, and pursed his lips,
                            And blew and blew and blew!
                            And the Sun'slike diamond-stone,
                            Brighter yet than ever known,
                            As he knit his brows and held his breath,
                            And shone and shone and shone!
                        
                        
                            And this pair of merry fays
                            Wandered through the summer days;
                            Arm-in-arm they went together
                            Over heights of morning haze
                            Over slanting slopes of lawn
                            They went on and on Und on,
                            Where the daisies looked like star-tracks
                            Trailing up and down the dawn.
                        
                        
                        
                            And where'er they found the top
                            Of a wheat-stalk droop and lop
                            They chucked it underneath the chin
                            And praised the lavish crop,
                            Till it lifted with the pride
                            Of the heads it grew beside,
                            And then the South Wind and the Sun
                            Went onward satisfied.
                        
                        
                            Over meadow-lands they tripped,
                            Where the dandelions dipped
                            In crimson foam of clover-bloom,
                            And dripped and dripped and dripped;
                            And they clinched the bumble-stings,
                            Gauming honey on their wings,
                            And bundling them in lily-bells,
                            With maudlin murmurings.
                        
                        
                            And the humming-bird, that hung
                            Like a jewel up among
                            The tilted honeysuckle-horns,
                            They mesmerized, and swung
                            In the palpitating air,
                            Drowsed with odors strange and rare,
                            And, with whispered laughter, slipped away,
                            And left him hanging there.
                        
                        
                            And they braided blades of grass
                            Where the truant had to pass;
                            And they wriggled through the rushes
                            And the reeds of the morass,
                            
                            Where they danced, in rapture sweet,
                            O'er the leaves that laid a street
                            Of undulant mosaic for
                            The touches of their feet.
                        
                        
                            By the brook with mossy brink
                            Where the cattle came to drink,
                            They trilled and piped and whistled
                            With the thrush and bobolink,
                            Till the kine, in listless pause,
                            Switched their tails in mute applause,
                            With lifted heads, and dreamy eyes,
                            And bubble-dripping jaws.
                        
                        
                            And where the melons grew,
                            Streaked with yellow, green and blue,
                            These jolly sprites went wandering
                            Through spangled paths of dew;
                            And the melons, here and there,
                            They made love to, everywhere,
                            Turning their pink souls to crimson
                            With caresses fond and fair.
                        
                        
                            Over orchard walls they went,
                            Where the fruited boughs were bent
                            Till they brushed the sward beneath them
                            Where the shine and shadow blent;
                            And the great green pear they shook
                            Till the sallow hue forsook
                            Its features, and the gleam of gold
                            Laughed out in every look.
                        
                        
                        
                            And they stroked the downy cheek
                            Of the peach, and smoothed it sleek,
                            And flushed it into splendor;
                            And, with many an elfish freak,
                            Gave the russet's rust a wipe
                            Prankt the rambo with a stripe,
                            And the wine-sap blushed its reddest
                            As they spanked the pippins ripe.
                        
                        
                            Through the woven ambuscade
                            That the twining vines had made,
                            They found the grapes, in clusters,
                            Drinking up the shine and shade
                            Plumpt, like tiny skins of wine,
                            With a vintage so divine
                            That the tongue of fancy tingled
                            With the tang of muscadine.
                        
                        
                            And the golden-banded bees,
                            Droning o'er the flowery leas,
                            They bridled, reined, and rode away
                            Across the fragrant breeze,
                            Till in hollow oak and elm
                            They had groomed and stabled them
                            In waxen stalls that oozed with dews
                            Of rose and lily-stem.
                        
                        
                            Where the dusty highway leads,
                            High above the wayside weeds
                            They sowed the air with butterflies
                            Like blooming flower-seeds,
                            
                            Till the dull grasshopper sprung
                            Half a man's height up, and hung
                            Tranced in the heat, with whirring wings,
                            And sung and sung and sung!
                        
                        
                            And they loitered, hand in hand,
                            Where the snipe along the sand
                            Of the river ran to meet them
                            As the ripple meets the land,
                            Till the dragon-fly, in light
                            Gauzy armor, burnished bright,
                            Came tilting down the waters
                            In a wild, bewildered flight.
                        
                        
                            And they heard the killdee's call,
                            And afar, the waterfall,
                            But the rustle of a falling leaf
                            They heard above it all;
                            And the trailing willow crept
                            Deeper in the tide that swept
                            The leafy shallop to the shore,
                            And wept and wept and wept!
                        
                        
                            And the fairy vessel veered
                            From its mooringstacked and steered
                            For the centre of the current
                            Sailed away and disappeared:
                            And the burthen that it bore
                            From the long-enchanted shore
                            "Alas! the South Wind and the Sun!"
                            I murmur evermore.
                        
                        
                        
                            For the South Wind and the Sun,
                            Each so loves the other one,
                            For all his jolly folly
                            And frivolity and fun,
                            That our love for them they weigh
                            As their fickle fancies may,
                            And when at last we love them most,
                            They laugh and sail away.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Ripest Peach
                        
                            THE ripest peach is highest on the tree
                            And so her love, beyond the reach of me,
                            Is dearest in my sight. Sweet breezes, bow
                            Her heart down to me where I worship now!
                        
                        
                            She looms aloft where every eye may see
                            The ripest peach is highest on the tree.
                            Such fruitage as her love I know, alas!
                            I may not reach here from the orchard grass.
                        
                        
                            I drink the sunshine showered past her lips
                            As roses drain the dewdrop as it drips.
                            The ripest peach is highest on the tree,
                            And so mine eyes gaze upward eagerly.
                        
                        
                            Whywhy do I not turn away in wrath
                            And pluck some heart here hanging in my path?
                            Love's lower boughs bend with thembut, ah me!
                            The ripest peach is highest on the tree!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Time
                        
                            I
                            THE tickingtickingticking of the clock!
                            That vexed me so last night!"For though Time keeps
                            Such drowsy watch," I moaned, "he never sleeps,
                            But only nods above the world to mock
                            Its restless occupant, then rudely rock
                            It as the cradle of a babe that weeps!"
                            I seemed to see the seconds piled in heaps
                            Like sand about me; and at every shock
                            O' the bell, the piled sands were swirled away
                            As by a desert-storm that swept the earth
                            Stark as a granary floor, whereon the gray
                            And mist-bedrizzled moon amidst the dearth
                            Came crawling, like a sickly child, to lay
                            Its pale face next mine own and weep for day.
                        
                        
                            II
                            Wait for the morning! Ah! we wait indeed
                            For daylight, we who toss about through stress
                            Of vacant-armed desires and emptiness
                            Of all the warm, warm touches that we need,
                            And the warm kisses upon which we feed
                            Our famished lips in fancy! May God bless
                            The starved lips of us with but one caress
                            Warm as the yearning blood our poor hearts bleed!
                            . . . A wild prayer!bite thy pillow, praying so
                            Toss this side, and whirl that, and moan for dawn;
                            Let the clock's seconds dribble out their woe
                            And Time be drained of sorrow! Long ago
                            We heard the crowing cock, with answer drawn
                            As hoarsely sad at throat as sobs. . . . Pray on! 25 I.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Afterwhiles
                        
                            WHERE arc theythe Afterwhiles
                            Luring us the lengthening miles
                            Of our lives? Where is the dawn
                            With the dew across the lawn
                            Stroked with eager feet the far
                            Way the hills and valleys are?
                            Where the sun that smites the frown
                            Of the eastward-gazer down?
                            Where the rifted wreaths of mist
                            O'er us, tinged with amethyst,
                            Round the mountain's steep defiles?
                            Where are all the afterwhiles?
                        
                        
                            Afterwhileand we will go
                            Thither, yon, and to and fro
                            From the stifling city streets
                            To the country's cool retreats
                            From the riot to the rest
                            Where hearts beat the placidest:
                            Afterwhile, and we will fall
                            Under breezy trees, and loll
                            In the shade, with thirsty sight
                            Drinking deep the blue delight
                            Of the skies that will beguile
                            Us as childrenafterwhile.
                        
                        
                            Afterwhileand one intends
                            To be gentler to his friends,
                            To walk with them, in the hush
                            Of still evenings, o'er the plush
                            Of home-leading fields, and stand
                            
                            Long at parting, hand in hand:
                            One, in time, will joy to take
                            New resolves for some one's sake,
                            And wear then the look that lies
                            Clear and pure in other eyes
                            He will soothe and reconcile
                            His own conscienceafterwhile.
                        
                        
                            Afterwhilewe have in view
                            A far scene to journey to,
                            Where the old home is, and where
                            The old mother waits us there,
                            Peering, as the time grows late,
                            Down the old path to the gate.
                            How we'll click the latch that locks
                            In the pinks and hollyhocks,
                            And leap up the path once more
                            Where she waits us at the door!
                            How we'll greet the dear old smile,
                            And the warm tearsafterwhile!
                        
                        
                            Ah, the endless afterwhiles!
                            Leagues on leagues, and miles on miles,
                            In the distance far withdrawn,
                            Stretching on, and on, and on,
                            Till the fancy is footsore
                            And faints in the dust before
                            The last milestone's granite face,
                            Hacked with: Here Beginneth Space.
                            O far glimmering worlds and wings,
                            Mystic smiles and beckonings,
                            Lead us through the shadowy aisles,
                            Out into the afterwhiles.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Silence
                        
                            THOUSANDS of thousands of hushed years ago,
                            Out on the edge of Chaos, all alone
                            I stood on peaks of vapor, high upthrown
                            Above a sea that knew nor ebb nor flow,
                            Nor any motion won of winds that blow,
                            Nor any sound of watery wail or moan,
                            Nor lisp of wave, nor wandering undertone
                            Of any tide lost in the night below.
                            So still it was, I mind me, as I laid
                            My thirsty ear against mine own faint sigh
                            To drink of that, I sipped it, half afraid
                            'Twas but the ghost of a dead voice spilled by
                            The one starved star that tottered through the shade
                            And came tiptoeing toward me down the sky.
                        
                    
                    
                        Grant
                        AT BESTAUGUST 8, 1885
                        
                            Sir Launcelot rode overthwart and endlong in a wide forest, and held no path
                                but as wild adventure led him. . . . And he returned and came again to his horse, and
                                took off his saddle and his. bridle, and let him pasture; and unlaced his helm, and
                                ungirdled his sword, and laid him down to sleep upon his shield before the
                                cross.AGE OF CHIVALRY.
                        
                        
                            WHAT shall we say of the soldier, Grant,
                            His sword put by and his great soul free?
                            How shall we cheer him now or chant
                            His requiem befittingly?
                            
                            The fields of his conquest now are seen
                            Ranged no more with his armed men
                            But the rank and file of the gold and green
                            Of the waving grain is there again.
                        
                        
                            Though his valiant life is a nation's pride,
                            And his death heroic and half divine,
                            And our grief as great as the world is wide,
                            There breaks in speech but a single line:
                            We loved him living, revere him dead!
                            A silence then on our lips is laid:
                            We can say no thing that has not been said,
                            Nor pray one prayer that has not been prayed.
                        
                        
                            But a spirit within us speaks: and lo,
                            We lean and listen to wondrous words
                            That have a sound as of winds that blow,
                            And the voice of waters and low of herds;
                            And we hear, as the song flows on serene,
                            The neigh of horses, and then the beat
                            Of hooves that skurry o'er pastures green,
                            And the patter and pad of a boy's bare feet.
                        
                        
                            A brave lad, wearing a manly brow,
                            Knit as with problems of grave dispute,
                            And a face, like the bloom of the orchard bough,
                            Pink and pallid, but resolute;
                            And flushed it grows as the clover-bloom,
                            And fresh it gleams as the morning dew,
                            As he reins his steed where the quick quails boom
                            Up from the grasses he races through.
                        
                        
                        
                            And ho! as he rides what dreams are his?
                            And what have the breezes to suggest?
                            Do they whisper to him of shells that whiz
                            O'er fields made ruddy with wrongs redressed?
                            Does the hawk above him an Eagle float?
                            Does he thrill and his boyish heart beat high,
                            Hearing the ribbon about his throat
                            Flap as a flag as the winds go by?
                        
                        
                            And does he dream of the Warrior's fame
                            This Western boy in his rustic dress?
                            For, in miniature, this is the man that came
                            Riding out of the Wilderness!
                            The selfsame figurethe knitted brow
                            The eyes full steadythe lips full mute
                            And the face, like the bloom of the orchard bough,
                            Pink and pallid, but resolute.
                        
                        
                            Ay, this is the man, with features grim
                            And stoical as the Sphinx's own,
                            That heard the harsh guns calling him,
                            As musical as the bugle blown,
                            When the sweet spring heavens were clouded o'er
                            With a tempest, glowering and wild,
                            And our country's flag bowed down before
                            Its bursting wrath as a stricken child.
                        
                        
                            Thus, ready mounted and booted and spurred,
                            He loosed his bridle and dashed away!
                            Like a roll of drums were his hoof-beats heard,
                            Like the shriek of the fife his charger's neigh!
                            And over his shoulder and back-ward blown,
                            We heard his voice, and we saw the sod
                            
                            Reel, as our wild steeds chased his own
                            As though hurled on by the hand of God!
                        
                        
                            And still, in fancy, we see him ride
                            In the blood-red front of a hundred frays,
                            His face set stolid, but glorified
                            As a knight's of the old Arthurian days:
                            And victor ever as courtly, too,
                            Gently lifting the vanquished foe,
                            And staying him with a hand as true
                            As dealt the deadly avenging blow.
                        
                        
                            So, brighter than all of the cluster of stars
                            Of the flag enshrouding his form to-day,
                            His face shines forth from the grime of wars
                            With a glory that shall not pass away:
                            He rests at last: he has borne his part
                            Of salutes and salvos and cheers on cheers
                            But O the sobs of his country's heart,
                            And the driving rain of a nation's tears!
                        
                    
                    
                        The Sphinx
                        
                            I KNOW all about the Sphinx
                            I know even what she thinks,
                            Staring with her stony eyes
                            Up forever at the skies.
                        
                        
                            For last night I dreamed that she
                            Told me all the mystery
                            Why for ons mute she sat:
                            She was just cut out for that!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Sleep
                        
                            THOU drowsy god, whose blurred eyes, half awink,
                            Muse on me,drifting out upon thy dreams,
                            I lave my soul as in enchanted streams
                            Where revelling satyrs pipe along the brink,
                            And, tipsy with the melody they drink,
                            Uplift their dangling hooves and down the beams
                            Of sunshine dance like motes. Thy languor seems
                            An ocean-depth of love wherein I sink
                            Like some fond Argonaut, right willingly,
                            Because of wooing eyes upturned to mine,
                            And siren-arms that coil their sorcery
                            About my neck, with kisses so divine,
                            The heavens reel above me, and the sea
                            Swallows and licks its wet lips over me.
                        
                    
                    
                        Illileo
                        
                            ILLILEO, the moonlight seemed lost across the vales
                            The stars but strewed the azure as an armor's scattered scales;
                            The airs of night were quiet as the breath of silken sails,
                            And all your words were sweeter than the notes of nightingales.
                        
                        
                            Illileo Legardi, in the garden, there alone,
                            With your figure carved of fervor, as the Psyche carved of stone,
                            They came to me no murmur of the fountain's undertone
                            So mystically, musically mellow as your own.
                        
                        
                        
                            You whispered low, Illileoso low the leaves were mute,
                            And the echoes faltered breathless in your voice's vain pursuit;
                            And there died the distant dalliance of the serenader's lute:
                            And I held you in my bosom as the husk may hold the fruit.
                        
                        
                            Illileo, I listened. I believed you. In my bliss,
                            What were all the worlds above me since I found you thus in this?
                            Let them reeling reach to win meeven Heaven I would miss
                            Grasping earthward!I would cling here, though I clung by just a kiss.
                        
                        
                            And blossoms should grow odorlessand lilies all aghast
                            And I said the stars should slacken in their paces through the vast,
                            Ere yet my loyalty should fail enduring to the last.
                            So vowed I. It is written. It is changeless as the past.
                        
                        
                            Illileo Legardi, in the shade your palace throws
                            Like a cowl about the singer at your gilded porticos,
                            A moan goes with the music that may vex the high repose
                            Of a heart that fades and crumbles as the crimson of a rose.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Ike Walton's Prayer
                        
                            I CRAVE, dear Lord,
                            No boundless hoard
                            Of gold and gear,
                            Nor jewels fine,
                            Nor lands, nor kine,
                            Nor treasure-heaps of anything.
                            Let but a little hut be mine
                            Where at the hearthstone I may hear
                            The cricket sing,
                            And have the shine
                            Of one glad woman's eyes to make,
                            For my poor sake,
                            Our simple home a place divine;
                            Just the wee cotthe cricket's chirr
                            Love, and the smiling face of her.
                        
                        
                            I pray not for
                            Great riches, nor
                            For vast estates and castle-halls,
                            Give me to hear the bare footfalls
                            Of children o'er
                            An oaken floor
                            New-rinsed with sunshine, or bespread
                            With but the tiny coverlet
                            And pillow for the baby's head;
                            And, pray Thou, may
                            The door stand open and the day
                            Send ever in a gentle breeze,
                            With fragrance from the locust-trees,
                            
                            And drowsy moan of doves, and blur
                            Of robin-chirps, and drone of bees,
                            With after-hushes of the stir
                            Of intermingling sounds, and then
                            The goodwife and the smile of her
                            Filling the silences again
                            The cricket's call
                            And the wee cot,
                            Dear Lord of all,
                            Deny me not!
                        
                        
                            I pray not that
                            Men tremble at
                            My power of place
                            And lordly sway,
                            I only pray for simple grace
                            To look my neighbor in the face
                            Full honestly from day to day
                            Yield me his horny palm to hold,
                            And I'll not pray
                            For gold;
                            The tanned face, garlanded with mirth,
                            It hath the kingliest smile on earth;
                            The swart brow, diamonded with sweat,
                            Hath never need of coronet.
                            And so I reach,
                            Dear Lord, to Thee,
                            And do beseech
                            Thou givest me
                            The wee cot, and the cricket's chirr,
                            Love, and the glad sweet face of her!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Her Hair
                        
                            THE beauty of her hair bewilders me
                            Pouring adown the brow, its cloven tide
                            Swirling about the ears on either side
                            And storming round the neck tumultuously:
                            Or like the lights of old antiquity
                            Through mullioned windows, in cathedrals wide,
                            Spilled moltenly o'er figures deified
                            In chastest marble, nude of drapery.
                            And so I love itEither unconfined;
                            Or plaited in close braidings manifold;
                            Or smoothly drawn; or indolently twined
                            In careless knots whose coilings come unrolled
                            At any lightest kiss; or by the wind
                            Whipped out in flossy ravellings of gold.
                        
                    
                    
                        Laughter Holding Both His Sides
                        
                            AY, thou varlet! Laugh away!
                            All the world's a holiday!
                            Laugh away, and roar and shout
                            Till thy hoarse tongue lolleth out!
                            Bloat thy cheeks, and bulge thine eyes
                            Unto bursting; pelt thy thighs
                            With thy swollen palms, and roar
                            As thou never hast before!
                            Lustier! wilt thou! peal on peal!
                            Stiflest? Squat and grind thy heel
                            Wrestle with thy loins, and then
                            Wheeze thee whiles, and whoop again!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Our Kind of a Man
                        
                            I
                            THE kind of a man for you and me!
                            He faces the world unflinchingly,
                            And smites, as long as the wrong resists,
                            With a knuckled faith and force like fists:
                            He lives the life he is preaching of,
                            And loves where most is the need of love;
                            His voice is clear to the deaf man's ears,
                            And his face sublime through the blind man's tears;
                            The light shines out where the clouds were dim,
                            And the widow's prayer goes up for him;
                            The latch is clicked at the hovel door
                            And the sick man sees the sun once more,
                            And out o'er the barren fields he sees
                            Springing blossoms and waving trees,
                            Feeling as only the dying may,
                            That God's own servant has come that way,
                            Smoothing the path as it still winds on
                            Through the golden gate where his loved have gone.
                        
                        
                            II
                            The kind of a man for me and you!
                            However little of worth we do
                            He credits full, and abides in trust
                            That time will teach us how more is just.
                            He walks abroad, and he meets all kinds
                            Of querulous and uneasy minds,
                            And, sympathizing, he shares the pain
                            Of the doubts that rack us, heart and brain;
                            
                            And, knowing this, as we grasp his hand,
                            We are surely coming to understand!
                            He looks on sin with pitying eyes
                            E'en as the Lord, since Paradise,
                            Else, should we read, Though our sins should glow
                            As scarlet, they shall be white as snow?
                            And, feeling still, with a grief half glad,
                            That the bad are as good as the good arc bad,
                            He strikes straight out for the Rightand he
                            Is the kind of a man for you and me!
                        
                    
                    
                        Last Night--and This
                        
                            LAST nighthow deep the darkness was!
                            And well I knew its depths, because
                            I waded it from shore to shore,
                            Thinking to reach the light no more.
                        
                        
                            She would not even touch my hand.
                            The winds rose and the cedars fanned
                            The moon out, and the stars fled back
                            In heaven and hidand all was black!
                        
                        
                            But ah! To-night a summons came,
                            Signed with a tear-drop for a name,
                            For as I wondering kissed it, lo,
                            A line beneath it told me so.
                        
                        
                            And nowthe moon hangs over me
                            A disk of dazzling brilliancy,
                            And every star-tip stabs my sight
                            With splintered glitterings of light!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Lost Kiss
                        
                            I PUT by the half-written poem,
                            While the pen, idly trailed in my hand,
                            Writes on,"Had I words to complete it,
                            Who'd read it, or who'd understand?"
                            But the little bare feet on the stairway,
                            And the faint, smothered laugh in the hall,
                            And the eerie-low lisp on the silence,
                            Cry up to me over it all.
                        
                        
                            So I gather it upwhere was broken
                            The tear-faded thread of my theme,
                            Telling how, as one night I sat writing,
                            A fairy broke in on my dream,
                            A little inquisitive fairy
                            My own little girl, with the gold
                            Of the sun in her hair, and the dewy
                            Blue eyes of the fairies of old.
                        
                        
                            'Twas the dear little girl that I scolded
                            "For was it a moment like this,"
                            I said, "when she knew I was busy,
                            To come romping in 'for a kiss?
                            Come rowdying up from her mother,
                            And clamoring there at my knee
                            For 'One 'ittle kiss for my dolly,
                            And one 'ittle uzzer for me!'"
                        
                        
                            God, pity the heart that repelled her,
                            And the cold hand that turned her away,
                            And take, from the lips that denied her,
                            This answerless prayer of to-day!
                            
                            Take, Lord, from my mem'ry forever
                            That pitiful sob of despair,
                            And the patter and trip of the little bare feet,
                            And the one piercing cry on the stair!
                        
                        
                            I put by the half-written poem,
                            While the pen, idly trailed in my hand,
                            Writes on,"Had I words to complete it,
                            Who'd read it, or who'd understand?"
                            But the little bare feet on the stairway,
                            And the faint, smothered laugh in the hall,
                            And the eerie-low lisp on the silence,
                            Cry up to me over it all.
                        
                    
                    
                        Dearth
                        
                            I HOLD your trembling hand to-nightand yet
                            I may not know what wealth of bliss is mine,
                            My heart is such a curious design
                            Of trust and jealousy! Your eyes are wet
                            So must I think they jewel some regret,
                            And lo, the loving arms that round me twine
                            Cling only as the tendrils of a vine
                            Whose fruit has long been gathered: I forget,
                            While crimson clusters of your kisses press
                            Their wine out on my lips, my royal fare
                            Of rapture, since blind fancy needs must guess
                            They once poured out their sweetness otherwhere,
                            With fuller flavoring of happiness
                            Than e'en your broken sobs may now declare.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Beautiful City
                        
                            THE Beautiful City! Forever
                            Its rapturous praises resound;
                            We fain would behold itbut never
                            A glimpse of its glory is found:
                            We slacken our lips at the tender
                            White breasts of our mothers to hear
                            Of its marvellous beauty and splendor;
                            We seebut the gleam of a tear!
                        
                        
                            Yet never the story may tire us
                            First graven in symbols of stone
                            Rewritten on scrolls of papyrus
                            And parchment, and scattered and blown
                            By the winds of the tongues of all nations,
                            Like a litter of leaves wildly whirled
                            Down the rack of a hundred translations,
                            From the earliest lisp of the world.
                        
                        
                            We compass the earth and the ocean,
                            From the Orient's uttermost light,
                            To where the last ripple in motion
                            Lips hem of the skirt of the night,
                            But the Beautiful City evades us
                            No spire of it glints in the sun
                            No glad-bannered battlement shades us
                            When all our long journey is. done.
                        
                        
                            Where lies it? We question and listen;
                            We lean from the mountain, or mast,
                            And see but dull earth, or the glisten
                            Of seas inconceivably vast:
                            
                            The dust of the one blurs our vision,
                            The glare of the other our brain,
                            Nor city nor island Elysian
                            In all of the land or the main!
                        
                        
                            We kneel in dim fanes where the thunders
                            Of organs tumultuous roll,
                            And the longing heart listens and wonders,
                            And the eyes look aloft from the soul:
                            But the chanson grows fainter and fainter,
                            Swoons wholly away and is dead;
                            And our eyes only reach where the painter
                            Has dabbled a saint overhead.
                        
                        
                            The Beautiful City! O mortal,
                            Fare hopefully on in thy quest,
                            Pass down through the green grassy portal
                            That leads to the Valley of Rest;
                            There first passed the One who, in pity
                            Of all thy great yearning, awaits
                            To point out The Beautiful City,
                            And loosen the trump at the gates.
                        
                    
                    
                        Becalmed
                        
                            I
                            WOULD that the winds might only blow
                            As they blew in the golden long ago!
                            Laden with odors of Orient isles
                            Where ever and ever the sunshine smiles,
                            And the bright sands blend with the shady trees,
                            And the lotus blooms in the midst of these.
                        
                        
                        
                            II
                            Warm winds won from the midland vales
                            To where the tress of the Siren trails
                            O'er the flossy tip of the mountain phlox
                            And the bare limbs twined in the crested rocks,
                            High above as the sea-gulls flap
                            Their lopping wings at the thunder-clap.
                        
                        
                            III
                            Ah! that the winds might rise and blow
                            The great surge up from the port below,
                            Bloating the sad, lank, silken sails
                            Of the Argo out with the swift, sweet gales
                            That blew from Colchis when Jason had
                            His love's full will and his heart was glad
                            When Medea's voice was soft and low.
                            Ah! that the winds might rise and blow!
                        
                    
                    
                        From the Headboard of a Grave in Paraguay
                        
                            ATROTH, and a grief, and a blessing,
                            Disguised them and came this way,
                            And one was a promise, and one was a doubt.
                            And one was a rainy day.
                        
                        
                            And they met betimes with this maiden,
                            And the promise it spake and lied,
                            And the doubt it gibbered and hugged itself,
                            And the rainy dayshe died.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Indiana
                        
                            OUR Landour Home!the common home indeed
                            Of soil-born children and adopted ones
                            The stately daughters and the stalwart sons
                            Of Industry:All greeting and godspeed!
                            O home to proudly live for, and, if need
                            Be, proudly die for, with the roar of guns
                            Blent with our latest prayer.So died men once. . .
                            Lo, Peace!. . . As we look on the land THEY f reed
                            Its harvests all in ocean-overflow
                            Poured round autumnal coasts in billowy gold
                            Its corn and wine and balmd fruits and flow'rs,
                            We know the exaltation that they know
                            Who now, steadfast inheritors, behold
                            The Land Elysian, marvelling "This is ours!"
                        
                    
                    
                        Fame
                        
                            ONCE, in a dream, I saw a man,
                            With haggard face and tangled hair,
                            And eyes that nursed as wild a care
                            As gaunt Starvation ever can;
                            And in his hand he held a wand
                            Whose magic touch gave life and thought
                            Unto a form his fancy wrought
                            And robed with coloring so grand,
                            It seemed the reflex of some child
                            Of Heaven, fair and undefined
                            A face of purity and love
                            To woo him into worlds above:
                            
                            And as I gazed with dazzled eyes,
                            A gleaming smile lit up his lips
                            As his bright soul from its eclipse
                            Went flashing into Paradise.
                            Then tardy Fame came through the door
                            And found a picturenothing more.
                        
                        
                            And once I saw a man, alone,
                            In abject poverty, with hand
                            Uplifted o'er a block of stone
                            That took a shape at his command
                            And smiled upon him, fair and good
                            A perfect work of womanhood,
                            Save that the eyes might never weep,
                            Nor weary hands be crossed in sleep,
                            Nor hair that fell from crown to wrist,
                            Be brushed away, caressed and kissed.
                            And as in awe I gazed on her,
                            I saw the sculptor's chisel fall
                            I saw him sink, without a moan,
                            Sink lifeless at the feet of stone,
                            And lie there like a worshipper.
                            Fame crossed the threshold of the hall,
                            And found a statuethat was all.
                        
                        
                            And once I saw a man who drew
                            A gloom about him like a cloak,
                            And wandered aimlessly. The few
                            Who spoke of him at all, but spoke
                            Disparagingly of a mind
                            The Fates had faultily designed:
                            
                            Too indolent for modern times
                            Too fanciful, and full of whims
                            For, talking to himself in rhymes,
                            And scrawling never-heard-of hymns,
                            The idle life to which he clung
                            Was worthless as the songs he sung!
                            I saw him, in my vision, filled
                            With rapture o'er a spray of bloom
                            The wind threw in his lonely room;
                            And of the sweet perfume it spilled
                            He drank to drunkenness, and flung
                            His long hair back, and laughed and sung
                            And clapped his hands as children do
                            At fairy tales they listen to,
                            While from his flying quill there dripped
                            Such music on his manuscript
                            That he who listens to the words
                            May close his eyes and dream the birds
                            Are twittering on every hand
                            A language he can understand.
                            He journeyed on through life, unknown,
                            Without one friend to call his own;
                            He tired. No kindly hand to press
                            The cooling touch of tenderness
                            Upon his burning brow, nor lift
                            To his parched lips God's freest gift
                            No sympathetic sob or sigh
                            Of trembling lipsno sorrowing eye
                            Looked out through tears to see him die.
                            And Fame her greenest laurels brought
                            To crown a head that heeded not.
                            
                            And this is Fame! A thing, indeed,
                            That only comes when least the need:
                            The wisest minds of every age
                            The book of life from page to page
                            Have searched in vain; each lesson conned
                            Will promise it the page beyond
                            Until the last, when dusk of night
                            Falls over it, and reason's light
                            Is smothered by that unknown friend
                            Who signs his nom de flume, The End.
                        
                    
                    
                        When Bessie Died
                        
                            
                                "If from your own the dimpled hands had slipped,
                            
                            
                                And ne'er would nestle in your palm again;
                            
                            
                                If the white feet into the grave had tripped"
                            
                        
                        
                            WHEN Bessie died
                            We braided the brown hair, and tied
                            It just as her own little hands
                            Had fastened back the silken strands
                            A thousand timesthe crimson bit
                            Of ribbon woven into it
                            That she had worn with childish pride
                            Smoothed down the dainty bowand cried
                            When Bessie died.
                        
                        
                            When Bessie died
                            We drew the nursery blinds aside,
                            And, as the morning in the room
                            Burst like a primrose into bloom,
                            
                            Her pet canary's cage we hung
                            Where she might hear him when he sung
                            And yet not any note he tried,
                            Though she lay listening folded-eyed.
                        
                        
                            When Bessie died
                            We writhed in prayer unsatisfied:
                            We begged of God, and He did smile
                            In silence on us all the while;
                            And we did see Him, through our tears,
                            Enfolding that fair form of hers,
                            She laughing back against His love
                            The kisses we had nothing of
                            And death to us He still denied,
                            When Bessie died
                            When Bessie died.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Shower
                        
                            THE landscape, like the awed face of a child,
                            Grew curiously blurred; a hush of death
                            Fell on the fields, and in the darkened wild
                            The zephyr held its breath.
                        
                        
                            No wavering glamour-work of light and shade
                            Dappled the shivering surface of the brook;
                            The frightened ripples in their ambuscade
                            Of willows thrilled and shook.
                        
                        
                            The sullen day grew darker, and anon
                            Dim flashes of pent anger lit the sky;
                            
                            With rumbling wheels of wrath came rolling on
                            The storm's artillery.
                        
                        
                            The cloud above put on its blackest frown,
                            And then, as with a vengeful cry of pain,
                            The lightning snatched it, ripped and flung it down
                            In ravelled shreds of rain:
                        
                        
                            While I, transfigured by some wondrous art,
                            Bowed with the thirsty lilies to the sod,
                            My empty soul brimmed over, and my heart
                            Drenched with the love of God.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Dead Lover
                        
                            TIME is so long when a man is dead!
                            Some one sews; and the room is made
                            Very clean; and the light is shed
                            Soft through the window-shade.
                        
                        
                            Yesterday I thought: "I know
                            Just how the bells will sound, and how
                            The friends will talk, and the sermon go,
                            And the hearse-horse bow and bow!"
                        
                        
                            This is to-day; and I have no thing
                            To think ofnothing whatever to do
                            But to hear the throb of the pulse of a wing
                            That wants to fly back to you.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Art and Love
                        
                            HE faced his canvas (as a seer whose ken
                            Pierces the crust of this existence through)
                            And smiled beyond on that his genius knew
                            Ere mated with his being. Conscious then
                            Of his high theme alone, he smiled again
                            Straight back upon himself in many a hue
                            And tint, and light and shade, which slowly grew
                            Enfeatured of a fair girl's face, as when
                            First time she smiles for love's sake with no fear.
                            So wrought he, witless that behind him leant
                            A woman, with old features, dim and sear,
                            And glamoured eyes that felt the brimming tear,
                            And with a voice, like some sad instrument,
                            That sighing said, "I'm dead there; love me
                                here!"
                        
                    
                    
                        The King
                        
                            THEY rode right out of the morning sun
                            A glimmering, glittering cavalcade
                            Of knights and ladies, and every one
                            In princely sheen arrayed;
                            And the king of them all, O he rode ahead,
                            With a helmet of gold, and a plume of red
                            That spurted about in the breeze and bled
                            In the bloom of the everglade.
                        
                        
                            And they rode high over the dewy lawn,
                            With brave, glad banners of every hue
                            That rolled in ripples, as they rode on
                            In splendor, two and two;
                            
                            And the tinkling links of the golden reins
                            Of the steeds they rode rang such refrains
                            As the castanets in a dream of Spain's
                            Intensest gold and blue.
                        
                        
                            And they rode and rode; and the steeds they neighed
                            And pranced, and the sun on their glossy hides
                            Flickered and lightened and glanced and played
                            Like the moon on rippling tides;
                            And their manes were silken, and thick and strong,
                            And their tails were flossy, and fetlocklong,
                            And jostled in time to the teeming throng,
                            And their knightly song besides.
                        
                        
                            Clank of scabbard and jingle of spur,
                            And the fluttering sash of the queen went wild
                            In the wind, and the proud king glanced at her
                            As one at a wilful child 
                            And as knight and lady away they flew,
                            And the banners flapped, and the falcon, too,
                            And the lances flashed and the bugle blew,
                            He kissed his hand and smiled 
                        
                        
                            And then, like a slanting sunlit shower,
                            The pageant glittered across the plain,
                            And the turf spun back, and the wildweed flower
                            Was only a crimson stain.
                            And a dreamer's eyes they are downward cast,
                            As he blends these words with the wailing blast:
                            "It is the King of the Year rides past!"
                            And Autumn is here again.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        A Voice from the Farm
                        
                            IT is my dream to have you here with me,
                            Out of the heated city's dust and din
                            Here where the colts have room to gambol in,
                            And kine to graze, in clover to the knee.
                            I want to see your wan face happily
                            Lit with the wholesome smiles that have not been
                            In use since the old games you used to win
                            When we pitched horseshoes: And I want to be
                            At utter loaf with you in this dim land
                            Of grove and meadow, while the crickets make
                            Our own talk tedious, and the bat wields
                            His bulky flight, as we cease converse and
                            In a dusk like velvet smoothly take
                            Our way toward home across the dewy fields.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Serenade
                        
                            THE midnight is not more bewildering
                            To her drowsed eyes, than, to her ears, the sound
                            Of dim, sweet singing voices, interwound
                            With purl of flute and subtle twang of string,
                            Strained through the lattice, where the roses cling
                            And, with their fragrance, waft the notes around
                            Her haunted senses. Thirsting beyond bound
                            Of her slow-yielding dreams, the lilt and swing
                            Of the mysterious, delirious tune,
                            She drains like some strange opiate, with awed eyes
                            Upraised against her casement, where, aswoon,
                            The stars fail from her sight, and up the skies
                            Of alien azure rolls the full round moon
                            Like some vast bubble blown of summer noon.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Anselmo
                        
                            YEARS did I vainly seek the good Lords grace,
                            Prayed, fasted, and did penance dire and dread;
                            Did kneel, with bleeding knees and rainy face,
                            And mouth the dust, with ashes on my head;
                            Yea, still with knotted scourge the flesh I flayed,
                            Rent fresh the wounds, and moaned and shrieked insanely;
                            And froth oozed with the pleadings that I made,
                            And yet I prayed on vainly, vainly, vainly 1
                        
                        
                            A time, from out of swoon I lifted eye,
                            To find a wretched outcast, gray and grim,
                            Bathing my brow, with many a pitying sigh,
                            And I did pray Gods grace might rest on him.
                            Then, lo! a gentle voice fell on mine ears
                            "Thou shalt not sob in suppliance hereafter;
                            Take up thy prayers and wring them dry of tears,
                            And lift them, white and pure with love and laughter!"
                        
                        
                            So is it now for all men else I pray;
                            So is it I am blest and glad alway.
                        
                    
                    
                        Who Bides His Time
                        
                            WHO bides his time, and day by day
                            Faces defeat full patiently,
                            And lifts a mirthful roundelay,
                            However poor his fortunes be,
                            He will not fail in any qualm
                            Of povertythe paltry dime
                            It will grow golden in his palm,
                            Who bides his time.
                        
                        
                        
                            Who bides his timehe tastes the sweet
                            Of honey in the saltest tear;
                            And though he fares with slowest feet,
                            Joy runs to meet him, drawing near:
                            The birds are heralds of his cause;
                            And, like a never-ending rhyme,
                            The roadsides bloom in his applause,
                            Who bides his time.
                        
                        
                            Who bides his time, and fevers not
                            In the hot race that none achieves,
                            Shall wear cool-wreathen laurel, wrought
                            With crimson berries in the leaves;
                            And he shall reign a goodly king,
                            And sway his hand oer every clime,
                            With peace writ on his signet-ring,
                            Who bides his time.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Harper
                        
                            LIKE a drift of faded blossoms
                            Caught in a slanting rain,
                            His fingers glimpsed down the strings of his harp
                            In a tremulous refrain:
                        
                        
                            Patter and tinkle, and drip and drip!
                            Ah! but the chords were rainy sweet!
                            And I closed my eyes and I bit my lip,
                            As he played there in the street
                        
                        
                        
                            Patter, and drip, and tinkle!
                            . . . And there was the little bed
                            In the corner of the garret.
                            And the rafters overhead!
                        
                        
                            And there was the little window
                            Tinkle, and drip, and drip!
                            The rain above, and a mothers love.
                            And Gods companionship!
                        
                    
                    
                        A Song
                        
                            THERE is ever a song somewhere, my dear;
                            There is ever a something sings alway:
                            Theres the song of the lark when the skies are clear,
                            And the song of the thrush when the skies are gray.
                            The sunshine showers across the grain,
                            And the bluebird trills in the orchard tree;
                            And in and out, when the eaves drip rain,
                            The swallows are twittering ceaselessly.
                        
                        
                            There is ever a song somewhere, my dear,
                            Be the skies above or dark or fair,
                            There is ever a song that our hearts may hear
                            There is ever a song somewhere, my dear
                            There is ever a song somewhere!
                        
                        
                            There is ever a song somewhere, my dear,
                            In the midnight black, or the mid-day blue:
                            The robin pipes when the sun is here,
                            And the cricket chirrups the whole night through.
                        
                        
                        
                            The buds may blow, and the fruit may grow,
                            And the autumn leaves drop crisp and sear;
                            But whether the sun, or the rain, or the snow,
                            There is ever a song somewhere, my dear.
                        
                        
                            There is ever a song somewhere, my dear,
                            Be the skies above or dark or fair,
                            There is ever a song that our hearts may hear
                            There is ever a song somewhere, my dear
                            There is ever a song somewhere!
                        
                    
                    
                        A Fruit-Piece
                        
                            THE afternoon of summer folds
                            Its warm arms round the marigolds,
                        
                        
                            And, with its gleaming fingers, pets
                            The watered pinks and violets
                        
                        
                            That from the casement vases spill,
                            Over the cottage window-sill,
                        
                        
                            Their fragrance down the garden walks
                            Where droop the dry-mouthed hollyhocks.
                        
                        
                            How vividly the sunshine scrawls
                            The grape-vine shadows on the walls!
                        
                        
                            How like a truant swings the breeze
                            In high boughs of the apple-trees!
                        
                        
                        
                            The slender "free-stone" lifts aloof,
                            Full languidly above the roof,
                        
                        
                            A hoard of fruitage, stamped with gold
                            And precious tnintings manifold.
                        
                        
                            High up, through curled green leaves, a pear
                            Hangs hot with ripeness here and there.
                        
                        
                            Beneath the sagging trellisings,
                            In lush, lack-lustre clusterings,
                        
                        
                            Great torpid grapes, ail fattened through
                            With moon and sunshine, shade and dew,
                        
                        
                            Until their swollen girths express
                            . . . But forms of limp deliciousness
                        
                        
                            Drugged to an indolence divine
                            With heavens own sacramental wine.
                        
                    
                    
                        If I Knew What Poets Know
                        
                            IF I knew what poets know,
                            Would I write a rhyme
                            Of the buds that never blow
                            In the summer-time?
                            Would I sing of golden seeds
                            Springing up in ironweeds?
                            And of raindrops turned to snow,
                            If I knew what poets know?
                        
                        
                        
                            Did I know what poets do,
                            Would I sing a song.
                            Sadder than the pigeons coo
                            When the days are long?
                            Where I found a heart in pain,
                            I would make it glad again;
                            And the false should be the true,
                            Did I know what poets do.
                        
                        
                            If I knew what poets know,
                            I would find a theme
                            Sweeter than the placid flow
                            Of the fairest dream:
                            I would sing of love that lives
                            On the errors it forgives;
                            And the world would better grow
                            If I knew what poets know.
                        
                    
                    
                        Where the Children Used to Play
                        
                            THE old farm-home is Mothers yet and mine,
                            And filled it is with plenty and to spare,
                            But we are lonely here in lifes decline,
                            Though fortune smiles around us everywhere:
                            We look across the gold
                            Of the harvests, as of old
                            The corn, the fragrant clover, and the hay;
                            But most we turn our gaze,
                            As with eyes of other days,
                            To the orchard where the children used to play.
                        
                        
                        
                            
                                O from our lifes full measure
                            
                            
                                And rich hoard of worldly treasure
                            
                            
                                We often turn our weary eyes away,
                            
                            
                                And hand in hand we wander
                            
                            
                                Down the old path winding yonder
                            
                            
                                To the orchard where the children used to play.
                            
                        
                        
                            Our sloping pasture-lands are filled with herds;
                            The barn and granary-bins are bulging oer;
                            The groves a paradise of singing birds
                            The woodland brook leaps laughing by the door;
                            Yet lonely, lonely still,
                            Let us prosper as we will,
                            Our old hearts seem so empty everyway
                            We can only through a mist
                            See the faces we have kissed
                            In the orchard where the children used to play.
                        
                        
                            
                                O from our lifes full measure
                            
                            
                                And rich hoard of worldly treasure
                            
                            
                                We often turn our weary eyes away,
                            
                            
                                And hand in hand we wander
                            
                            
                                Down the old path winding yonder
                            
                            
                                To the orchard where the children used to play.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    PIPES O' PAN
                    
                        Pan
                        
                            THIS Pan is but an idle god, I guess,
                            Since all the fair midsummer of my dreams
                            He loiters listlessly by woody streams,
                            Soaking the lush glooms up with laziness;
                            Or drowsing while the maiden-winds caress
                            Him prankishly, and powder him with gleams
                            Of sifted sunshine. And he ever seems
                            Drugged with a joy unutterableunless
                            His low pipes whistle hints of it far out
                            Across the ripples to the dragon-fly
                            That, like a wind-born blossom blown about,
                            Drops quiveringly down, as though to die
                            Then lifts and wavers on, as if in doubt
                            Whether to fan his wings or fly without.
                        
                    
                    
                        Kissing the Rod
                        
                            OHEART of mine, we shouldnt
                            Worry so!
                            What weve missed of calm we couldnt
                            Have, you know!
                            What weve met of stormy pain,
                            And of sorrows driving rain,
                            We can better meet again,
                            If it blow!
                        
                        
                        
                            We have erred in that dark hour
                            We have known,
                            When our tears fell with the shower,
                            All alone!
                            Were not shine and shadow blent
                            As the gracious Master meant?
                            Let us temper our content
                            With His own.
                        
                        
                            For, we know, not every morrow
                            Can be sad;
                            So, forgetting all the sorrow
                            We have had,
                            Let us fold away our fears,
                            And put by our foolish tears,
                            And through all the coming years
                            Just be glad.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Legend Glorified
                        
                            "IDEEM that God is not disquieted"
                            This in a mighty poets rhymes
                            I read; And blazoned so forever doth abide
                            Within my soul the legend glorified.
                        
                        
                            Though awful tempests thunder overhead,
                            I deem that God is not disquieted,
                            The faith that trembles somewhat yet is sure
                            Through storm and darkness of a way secure.
                        
                        
                        
                            Bleak winters, when the naked spirit hears
                            The break of hearts, through stinging sleet of tears,
                            I deem that God is not disquieted;
                            Against all stresses am I clothed and fed.
                        
                        
                            Nay, even with fixed eyes and broken breath,
                            My feet dip down into the tides of death,
                            Nor any friend be left, nor prayer be said,
                            I deem that God is not disquieted.
                        
                    
                    
                        Wait for the Morning
                        
                            WAIT for the morning:It will come, indeed,
                            As surely as the night hath given need.
                            The yearning eyes, at last, will strain their sight
                            No longer will they vainly strive, through tears,
                            To pierce the darkness of thy doubts and fears,
                            But, bathed in balmy dews and rays of dawn,
                            Will smile with rapture oer the darkness drawn.
                        
                        
                            Wait for the morning, O thou smitten child,
                            Scorned, scourged and persecuted and reviled
                            Athirst and famishing, none pitying thee,
                            Crowned with the twisted thorns of agony
                            No faintest gleam of sunlight through the dense
                            Infinity of gloom to lead thee thence.
                            Wait for the morning:It will come, indeed,
                            As surely as the night hath given need.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Bells Jangled
                        
                            TLIE low-coiled in a nest of dreams;
                            The lamp gleams dim i the odorous gloor
                            And the stars at the casement leak long gleams
                            Of misty light through the haunted room
                            Where I lie low-coiled in dreams.
                        
                        
                            The night winds ooze oer my dusk-drowned fa
                            In a dewy flood that ebbs and flows,
                            Washing a surf of dim white lace
                            Under my throat and the dark red rose
                            In the shade of my dusk-drowned face.
                        
                        
                            Theres a silken strand of some strange sound
                            Slipping out of a skein of song:
                            Eerily as a call unwound
                            From a fairy bugle, it slides along
                            In a silken strand of sound.
                        
                        
                            Theres the tinkling drip of a faint guitar;
                            Theres a gurgling flute, and a blaring horn
                            Blowing bubbles of tune afar
                            Oer the misty heights of the hills of morn,
                            To the drip of a faint guitar.
                        
                        
                            And I dream that I neither sleep nor wake
                            Careless am I if I wake or sleep,
                            For my soul floats out on the waves that break
                            In crests of song on the shoreless deep
                            Where I neither sleep nor wake.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        AN old sweetheart of mine
                        
                            AN old sweetheart of mine!Is this her presence here with me,
                            Or but a vain creation of a lovers memory?
                            A fair, illusive vision that would vanish into air
                            Dared I eventouchthe silence with thewhisperof a prayer?
                        
                        
                            Nay, let me then believe in all the blended false and true
                            The semblance of the old love and the substance of the
                            The then of changeless sunny daysthe now of shower and
                            But Love forever smilingas that old sweetheart of mine.
                        
                        
                            This everrestful sense of home, though shouts ring in the hall.
                            The easychairthe old bookshelves and prints along the
                            The rare Habanas in their box, or gaunt churchwardenstem
                            That often wags, above the jar, derisively at them.
                        
                        
                            As one who cons at evening oer an album, all alone,
                            And muses on the faces of the friends that he has known,
                            So I turn the leaves of Fancy, till, in shadowy design,
                            I find the smiling features of an old sweetheart of mine.
                        
                        
                            The lamplight seems to glimmer with a nicker of surprise,
                            As I turn it lowto rest me of the dazzle in my eyes,
                            And light my pipe in silence, save a sigh that seems to yoke
                            Its fate with my tobacco and to vanish with the smoke.
                        
                        
                        
                            Tis a fragrant retrospection,for the loving thoughts that start
                            Into being are like perfume from the blossom of the heart;
                            And to dream the old dreams over is a luxury divine
                            When my truant fancies wander with that old sweetheart of mine.
                        
                        
                            Though I hear beneath my study, like a fluttering of wings,
                            The voices of my children and the mother as she sings
                            I feel no twinge of conscience to deny me any theme
                            When Care has cast her anchor in the harbor of a dream
                        
                        
                            In fact, to speak in earnest, I believe it adds a charm
                            To spice the good a trifle with a little dust of harm,
                            For I find an extra flavor in Memory's mellow wine
                            That makes me drink the deeper to that old sweetheart of mine.
                        
                        
                            O Childhood-days enchanted! O the magic of the Spring!
                            With all green boughs to blossom white, and all bluebirds to sing!
                            When all the air, to toss and quaff, made life a jubilee
                            And changed the children's song and laugh to shrieks of ecstasy.
                        
                        
                            With eyes half closed in clouds that ooze from lips that taste, as well,
                            The peppermint and cinnamon, I hear the old School-bell,
                            And from "Recess". . . rompinagain from
                                "Blackman's"broken line,
                            TO smile, behind my "lesson," at that old sweetheart of
                            mine.
                        
                        
                        
                            A face of lily-beauty, with a form of airy grace,
                            Floats out of my tobacco as the Genii from the vase;
                            And I thrill beneath the glances of a pair of azure eyes
                            As glowing as the summer and as tender as the skies.
                        
                        
                            I can see the pink sunbonnet and the little checkered dress
                            She wore when first I kissed her and she answered the
                            With the written declaration that, "as surely as the vine
                            Grew round the stump," she loved methat old sweetheart of mine.
                        
                        
                            Again I made her presents, in a really helpless way,
                            The big "Rhode Island Greening"I was hungry, too, that day!
                            But I follow her from Spelling, with her hand behind herso
                            And I slip the apple in itand the Teacher doesnt know!
                        
                        
                            I givemytreasuresto herall,mypencil-blue-andred;
                            And, if little girls played marbles, mine should all be hers, instead!
                            But she gave me her photograph, and printed "Ever Thine"
                            Across the Backin blueandthat old sweetheart of mine!
                        
                        
                            And agine I feel the pressure of her slender little hand,
                            As we used to talk together of the future we had planned
                            When I should be a poet, and with nothing else to do
                            But write the tender verses that she set the music to . . .
                        
                        
                        
                            When we should live together in a cozy little, cot
                            Hid in a nest of roses, with a fairy gardens-spot,
                            Where the vines were ever fruited, and the weather ever fine,
                            And the birds were ever singing for that old sweetheart of
                        
                        
                            When I should be her lover forever and a day,
                            And she my faithful sweetheart till the golden hair was
                            gray; And we should be so happy that when cither's lips were
                            dumb They would not smile in Heaven till the other's kiss had
                        
                        
                            But, ah! my dream is broken by a step upon the stair,
                            And the door is softly opened, andmy wife is standing there:
                            Yet with eagerness and rapture all my visions I resign,
                            To greet the living presence of that old sweetheart of mine.
                        
                    
                    
                        A Leave-Taking
                        
                            SHE will not smile;
                            P. She will not stir:
                            I marvel while
                            I look on her.
                            The lips are chilly
                            And will not speak;
                            The ghost of a lily
                            In either cheek.
                        
                        
                        
                            Her hairah me!
                            Her hairher hair!
                            How helplessly
                            My hands go there!
                            But my caresses
                            Meet not hers,
                            O golden tresses
                            That thread my tears!
                        
                        
                            I kiss the eyes
                            On either lid,
                            Where her love lies
                            Forever hid.
                            1 cease my weeping
                            And smile and say:
                            I shall be sleeping
                            Thus, some day!
                        
                    
                    
                        Kneeling With Herrick
                        
                            DEAR Lord, to Thee my knee is bent
                            Give me content
                            Fullpleasured with what comes to me,
                            Whateer it be:
                            An humble roofa frugal board,
                            And simple hoard;
                            The wintry fagot piled beside
                            The chimney wide,
                            
                            While the enwreathing flames up-sprout
                            And twine about
                            The brazen dogs that guard my hearth
                            And household worth:
                            Tinge with the embers ruddy glow
                            The rafters low;
                            And let the sparks snap with delight,
                            As fingers might
                            That mark deft measures of some tune
                            The children croon:
                            Then, with good friends, the rarest few
                            Thou boldest true,
                            Ranged round about the blaze, to share
                            My comfort there,
                            Give me to claim the service meet
                            That makes each seat
                            A place of honor, and each guest
                            Loved as the rest.
                        
                    
                    
                        Babyhood
                        
                            HEIGHHO! Babyhood! Tell me where you linger!
                            . . . Lets toddle home again, for we have gone astray;
                            Take this eager hand of mine and lead me by the finger
                            Back to the lotuslands of the faraway!
                        
                        
                            Turn back the leaves of life.Dont read the story.
                            Lets find the pictures, and fancy all the rest;
                            We can fill the written pages with a brighter glory
                            Than Old Time, the story-teller, at his very best.
                        
                        
                        
                            Turn to the brook where the honeysuckle tipping
                            Oer its vase of perfume spills it on the breeze,
                            And the bee and hummingbird in ecstasy are sipping
                            From the fairyflagons of the blooming locusttrees.
                        
                        
                            Turn to the lanewhere we used to "teetertotter,"
                            Printing little footpalms in the mellow mold
                            Laughing at the lazy cattle wading in the water
                            Where the ripples dimple round the buttercups of gold.
                        
                        
                            Where the dusky turtle lies basking on the gravel
                            Of the sunny sandbar in the middle tide,
                            And the ghostly dragonfly pauses in his travel
                            To rest like a blossom where the water-lily died.
                        
                        
                            Heighho! Babyhood! Tell me where you linger!
                            Lets toddle home again, for we have gone astray;
                            Take this eager hand of mine and lead me by the finger
                            Back to the lotuslands of the far-away!
                        
                    
                    
                        In a Box
                        
                            I SAW them last night in a box at the play
                            Old age and young youth side by side.
                            You might know by the glasses that pointed that way
                            That they werea groom and a bride;
                            And you might have known, too, by the face of the groort
                            And the tilt of his head, and the grim
                            Little smile of his lip, he was proud to
                            That we men were all envying him.
                        
                        
                        
                            Well, she was superban Elaine in the face
                            A Godiva in figure and mien,
                            With the arm and the wrist of a Parian "Grace,"
                            And the high-lifted brow of a queen;
                            But I thought, in the splendor of wealth and of pride,
                            And her beauty's ostensible prize,
                            I should hardly be glad if she sat by my side
                            With that far-away look in her eyes.
                        
                    
                    
                        Lullaby
                        
                            THE maple strews the embers of its leaves
                            O'er the laggard swallows nestled 'neath the eaves;
                            And the moody cricket falters in his cryBaby-bye!
                            And the lid of night is falling o'er the skyBaby-bye!
                            The lid of night is falling o'er the sky!
                        
                        
                            The rose is tying pallid, and the cup
                            of the frosted calla-lily folded up;
                            And the breezes through the garden sob and sighBaby-bye!
                            O'er the sleeping blooms of Summer where they lieBaby-bye!
                            O'er the sleeping blooms of Summer where they lie!
                        
                        
                            Yet, BabyO my Baby, for your sake
                            This heart of mine is ever wide awake,
                            And my love may never droop a drowsy eyeBaby-bye!
                            Till your own are wet above me when I dieBaby-bye!
                            Till your own are wet above me when I die.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        To My Good Master
                        
                            IN FANCY, always, at thy desk, thrown wide,
                            Thy most betreasured books ranged neighborly
                            The rarest rhymes of every land and sea
                            And curious tongue thine old face glorified,
                            Thou haltest thy glib quill, and, laughing-eyed,
                            Givest hale welcome even unto me,
                            Profaning thus thine attic's sanctity,
                            Briefly to visit, yet to still abide
                            Enthralled there of thy sorcery of wit
                            And thy songs' most exceeding dear conceits.
                            O lips, cleft to the ripe core of all sweets,
                            With poems, like nectar, issuing therefrom,
                            Thy gentle utterances do overcome
                            My listening heart and all the love of it!
                        
                    
                    
                        Dear Hands
                        
                            THE touches of her hands are like the fall
                            Of velvet snowflakes; like the touch of down
                            The peach just brushes 'gainst the garden wall;
                            The flossy fondlings of the thistle-wisp
                            Caught in the crinkle of a leaf of brown
                            The blighting frost hath turned from green to crisp.
                        
                        
                            Soft as the falling of the dusk at night,
                            The touches of her hands, and the delight
                            The touches of her hands!
                            The touches of her hands are like the dew
                            That falls so softly down no one e'er knew
                            The touch thereof save lovers like to one
                            Astray in lights where ranged Endymion.
                        
                        
                        
                            O rarely soft, the touches of her hands,
                            As drowsy zephyrs in enchanted lands;
                            Or pulse of dying fay; or fairy sighs;
                            Orin between the midnight and the dawn,
                            When long unrest and tears and fears are gone
                            Sleep, smoothing down the lids of weary eyes.
                        
                    
                    
                        Three Dead Friends
                        
                            ALWAYS suddenly they are gone
                            The friends we trusted and held secure
                            Suddenly we are gazing on,
                            Not a smiling face, but the marble-pure
                            Dead mask of a face that nevermore
                            To a smile of ours will make reply
                            The lips close-locked as the eyelids are.
                            Goneswift as the flash of the molten ore
                            A meteor pours through a midnight sky,
                            Leaving it blind of a single star.
                        
                        
                            Tell us, O Death, Remorseless Might!
                            What is this old, unescapable ire
                            You wreak on us?from the birth of light
                            Till the world be charred to a core of fire!
                            We do no evil thing to you
                            We seek to evade youthat is all
                            That is your will you will not be known
                            Of men. What, then, would you have us do?
                            Cringe, and wait till your vengeance fall,
                            And your graves be fed, and the trumpet blown?
                        
                        
                        
                            You desire no friends; but weO we
                            Need them so, as we falter here,
                            Fumbling through each new vacancy,
                            As each is stricken that we hold dear.
                            One you struck but a year ago;
                            And one not a month ago; and one
                            (God's vast pity!)and one lies now
                            Where the widow wails, in her nameless woe,
                            And the soldiers pace, with the sword and gun,
                            Where the comrade sleeps, with the laureled brow.
                        
                        
                            And what did the first?that wayward soul,
                            Clothed of sorrow, yet nude of sin,
                            And with all hearts bowed in the strange control
                            Of the heavenly voice of his violin.
                            Why, it was music the way he stood,
                            So grand was the poise of the head and so
                            Full was the figure of majesty!
                            One heard with the eyes, as a deaf man would,
                            And with all sense brimmed to the overflow
                            With tears of anguish and ecstasy.
                        
                        
                            And what did the girl, with the great warm light
                            Of genius sunning her eyes of blue,
                            With her heart so pure, and her soul so white
                            What, O Death, did she do to you?
                            Through field and wood as a child she strayed,
                            As Nature, the dear sweet mother, led;
                            While from her canvas, mirrored back,
                            Glimmered the stream through the everglade
                            Where the grape-vine trailed from the trees to wed
                            Its likeness of emerald, blue, and black.
                        
                        
                        
                            And what did he, who, the last of these,
                            Faced you, with never a fear, O Death?
                            Did you hate him that he loved the breeze,
                            And the morning dews, and the rose's breath?
                            Did you hate him that he answered not
                            Your hate againbut turned, instead,
                            His only hate on his country's wrongs?
                            Wellyou possess him, dead!but what
                            Of the good he wrought?With laureled head
                            He bides with us in his deeds and songs.
                        
                        
                            Laureled, first, that he bravely fought,
                            And forged a way to our flag's release;
                            Laureled, next, for the harp he taught
                            To wake glad songs in the days of peace
                            Songs of the woodland haunts he held
                            As close in his love as they held their bloom
                            In their inmost bosoms of leaf and vine
                            Songs that echoed and pulsed and welled
                            Through the town's pent streets, and the sick child'
                                room,
                            Pure as a shower in soft sunshine.
                        
                        
                            Claim them, Death; yet their fame endures.
                            What friend next will you rend from us
                            In that cold, pitiless way of yours,
                            And leave us a greif more dolorous?
                            Speak to us!tell us, O Dreadful Power!
                            Are we to have not a lone friend left?
                            Since, frozen, sodden, or green the sod,
                            In every second of every hour,
                            
                                Some one, Death, you have thus bereft,
                            Half inaudibly shrieks to God.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        In the South
                        
                            THERE is a princess in the South
                            About whose beauty rumors hum
                            Like honey-bees about the mouth
                            Of roses dewdrops falter from;
                            And O her hair is like the fine
                            Clear amber of a jostled wine
                            In tropic revels; and her eyes
                            Are blue as rifts of Paradise.
                        
                        
                            Such beauty as may none before
                            Kneel daringly, to kiss the tips
                            Of fingers such as knights of yore
                            Had died to lift against their lips:
                            Such eyes as might the eyes of gold
                            Of all the stars of night behold
                            With glittering envy, and so glare
                            In dazzling splendor of despair.
                        
                        
                            So, were I but a minstrel, deft
                            At weaving, with the trembling strings
                            Of my glad harp, the warp and weft
                            Of rondels such as rapture sings,
                            I'd loop my lyre across my breast,
                            Nor stay me till my knee found rest
                            In midnight banks of bud and flower
                            Beneath my lady's lattice-bower.
                        
                        
                            And there, drenched with the teary dews,
                            I'd woo her with such wondrous art
                            As well might stanch the songs that ooze
                            Out of the mock-bird's breaking heart;
                            
                            So light, so tender, and so sweet
                            Should be the words I would repeat,
                            Her casement, on my gradual sight,
                            Would blossom as a lily might.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Lost Path
                        
                            ALONE they walkedtheir fingers knit together
                            And swaying listlessly as might a swing
                            Wherein Dan Cupid dangled in the weather
                            Of some sun-flooded afternoon of Spring.
                        
                        
                            Within the clover-fields the tickled cricket
                            Laughed lightly as they loitered down the lane,
                            And from the covert of the hazel-thicket
                            The squirrel peeped and laughed at them again.
                        
                        
                            The bumblebee that tipped the lily-vases
                            Along the roadside in the shadows dim,
                            Went following the blossoms of their faces
                            As tho' their sweets must needs be shared with him.
                        
                        
                            Between the pasture bars the wondering cattle
                            Stared wistfully, and from their mellow bells
                            Shook out a welcoming whose dreamy rattle
                            Fell swooningly away in faint farewells.
                        
                        
                            And tho' at last the gloom of night fell o'er them
                            And folded all the landscape from their eyes,
                            They only knew the dusky path before them
                            Was leading safely on to Paradise.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        In Bohemia
                        
                            HA! MY DEAR! I'm back again
                            Vendor of Bohemia's wares!
                            Lordy! How it pants a man
                            Climbing up those awful stairs!
                            Well, I've made the dealer say
                            Your sketch might sell, anyway!
                            And I've made a publisher
                            Hear my poem, Kate, my dear!
                        
                        
                            In Bohemia, Kate, my dear
                            Lodgers in a musty flat
                            On the top floorliving here
                            Neighborless, and used to that,
                            Like a nest beneath the eaves,
                            So our little home receives
                            Only guests of chirping cheer,
                            We'll be happy, Kate, my dear!
                        
                        
                            Under your north-light there, you
                            At your easel, with a stain
                            On your nose of Prussian blue,
                            Paint your bits of shine and rain;
                            With my feet thrown up at will
                            At my littered window-sill,
                            I write rhymes that ring as clear
                            As your laughter, Kate, my dear!
                        
                        
                            Puff my pipe, and stroke my hair
                            Bite my pencil-tip and gaze
                            At you, mutely mooning there
                            O'er your "Aprils" and your
                                "Mays!"
                            
                            Equal inspiration in
                            Dimples of your cheek and chin
                            And the golden atmosphere
                            Of your paintings, Kate, my dear!
                        
                        
                            
                                Trying! Yes, at times it is,
                            To clink happy rhymes, and fling
                            On the canvas scenes of bliss,
                            When we are half famishing!
                            When your "jersey" rips in spots,
                            And your hat's "forget-me-nots"
                            Have grown tousled, old and sere
                            It is trying, Kate, my dear!
                        
                        
                            Butas suresome picture sells,
                            Andsometimesthe poetry.
                            Bless us! How the parrot yells
                            His acclaims at you and me!
                            How we revel then in scenes
                            Of high banqueting!sardines
                            Saladsolivesand a sheer
                            Pint of sherry, Kate, my dear!
                        
                        
                            Even now I cross your palm
                            With this great round world of gold!
                            "Talking wild?" Perhaps I am
                            Then, this little five-year-old!
                            Call it anything you will,
                            So it lifts your face until
                            I may kiss away that tear
                            Ere it drowns me, Kate, my dear!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        A Worn-Out Pencil
                        
                            WELLADAY!
                            Here I lay
                            You at restall worn away,
                            O my pencil, to the tip
                            Of our old companionship!
                        
                        
                            Memory
                            Sighs to see
                            What you are, and used to be,
                            Looking backward to the time
                            When you wrote your earliest rhyme!
                        
                        
                            When I sat
                            Filing at
                            Your first point, and dreaming that
                            Your initial song should be
                            Worthy of posterity.
                        
                        
                            With regret
                            I forget
                            If the song be living yet,
                            Yet remember, vaguely now,
                            It was honest, anyhow.
                        
                        
                            You have brought
                            Me a thought
                            Truer yet was never taught,
                            That the silent song is best,
                            And the unsung worthiest.
                        
                        
                        
                            So if I,
                            When I die,
                            May as uncomplainingly
                            Drop aside as now you do,
                            Write of me, as I of you:
                        
                        
                            Here lies one
                            Who begun
                            Life a-singing, heard of none;
                            And he died, satisfied,
                            With his dead songs by his side.
                        
                    
                    
                        Where Shall We Land?
                        "Where shall we land you, sweet?"Swinburne
                        
                            ALL listlessly we float
                            Out seaward in the boat
                            That beareth Love.
                            Our sails of purest snow
                            Bend to the blue below
                            And to the blue above.
                            Where shall we land?
                        
                        
                            We drift upon a tide
                            Shoreless on every side,
                            Save where the eye
                            Of Fancy sweeps far lands
                            Shelved sLopingly with sands
                            Of gold and porphyry.
                            Where shall we land?
                        
                        
                        
                            The fairy isles we see,
                            Loom up so mistity
                            So vaguely fair,
                            We do not care to break
                            Fresh bubbles in our wake
                            To bend our course for there.
                            Where shall we land?
                        
                        
                            The warm winds of the deep
                            Have lulled our sails to sleep,
                            And so we glide
                            Careless of wave or wind,
                            Or change of any kind,
                            Or turn of any tide.
                            Where shall we land?
                        
                        
                            We droop our dreamy eyes
                            Where our reflection lies
                            Steeped in the sea,
                            And, in an endless fit
                            Of languor, smile on it
                            And its sweet mimicry.
                            Where shall we land?
                        
                        
                            "Where shall we land?" God's grace!
                            I know not any place
                            So fair as this
                            Swung here between the blue
                            Of sea and sky, with you
                            To ask me, with a kiss,
                            "Where shall we land?"
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Rain
                        
                            I
                            THE rain! the rain! the rain!
                            It gushed from the skies and streamed
                            Like awful tears; and the sick man thought
                            How pitiful it seemed!
                            And he turned his face away
                            And stared at the wall again,
                            His hopes nigh dead and his heart worn out.
                            O the rain! the rain! the rain!
                        
                        
                            II
                            The rain! the rain! the rain!
                            And the broad stream brimmed the shores;
                            And ever the river crept over the reeds
                            And the roots of the sycamores:
                            A corpse swirled by in a drift
                            Where the boat had snapt its chain
                            And a hoarse-voiced mother shrieked and raved.
                            O the rain! the rain! the rain!
                        
                        
                            III
                            The rain! the rain! the rain!
                            Pouring, with never a pause,
                            Over the fields and the green byways
                            How beautiful it was!
                            And the new-made man and wife
                            Stood at the window-pane
                            Like two glad children kept from school.
                            O the rain! the rain! the rain!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Drum
                        
                            O THE drum!
                            There is some
                            Intonation in thy grum
                            Monotony of utterance that strikes the spirit dumb,
                            As we hear,
                            Through the clear
                            And unclouded atmosphere,
                            Thy palpitating syllables roll in upon the ear!
                        
                        
                            There's a part
                            Of the art
                            Of thy music-throbbing heart
                            That thrills a something in us that awakens with a start,
                            And in rhyme
                            With the chime
                            And exactitude of time,
                            Goes marching on to glory to thy melody sublime.
                        
                        
                            And the guest
                            Of the breast
                            That thy rolling robs of rest
                            Is a patriotic spirit as a Continental dressed;
                            And he looms
                            From the glooms
                            Of a century of tombs,
                            And the blood he spilled at Lexington in living beauty blooms.
                        
                        
                            And his eyes
                            Wear the guise
                            Of a purpose pure and wise,
                            As the love of them is lifted to a something in the skies
                            
                            That is bright
                            Red and white,
                            With a blur of starry light,
                            As it laughs in silken ripples to the breezes day and night.
                        
                        
                            There are deep
                            Hushes creep
                            O'er the pulses as they leap,
                            As thy tumult, fainter growing, on the silence falls asleep,
                            While the prayer
                            Rising there
                            Wills the sea and earth and air
                            As a heritage to Freedom's sons and daughters everywhere.
                        
                        
                            Then, with sound
                            As profound
                            As the thunderings resound,
                            Come thy wild reverberations in a throe that shakes the ground,
                            And a cry
                            Flung on high,
                            Like the flag it flutters by,
                            Wings rapturously upward till it nestles in the sky.
                        
                        
                            O the drum!
                            There is some
                            Intnation in thy grum
                            Monotony of utterance that strikes the spirit dumb,
                            As we hear,
                            Through the clear
                            And unclouded atmosphere,
                            Thy palpitating syllables roll in upon the ear!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Has She Forgotten?
                        
                            I
                            HAS she forgotten? On this very May
                            We were to meet here, with the birds and bees,
                            As on that Sabbath, underneath the trees
                            We strayed among the tombs, and stripped away
                            The vines from these old granites, cold and gray
                            And yet, indeed, not grim enough were they
                            To stay our kisses, smiles, and ecstasies,
                            Or closer voice-lost vows and rhapsodies.
                            Has she forgottenthat the May has won
                            Its promise?that the bird-songs from the tree
                            Are sprayed above the grasses as the sun
                            Might jar the dazzling dew down showeringly?
                            Has she forgotten lifeloveevery one
                            Has she forgotten meforgotten me?
                        
                        
                            II
                            Low, low down in the violets I press
                            My lips and whisper to her. Does she hear,
                            And yet hold silence, though I call her dear,
                            Just as of old, save for the tearfulness
                            Of the clenched eyes, and the soul's vast distress?
                            Has she forgotten thus the old caress
                            That made our breath a quickened atmosphere
                            That failed nigh unto swooning with the sheer
                            Delight? Mine arms clutch now this earthen heap
                            Sodden with tears that flow on ceaselessly
                            As autumn rains the long, long, long nights weep
                            In memory of days that used to be,
                            Has she forgotten these? And, in her sleep,
                            Has she forgotten meforgotten me?
                        
                        
                        
                            III
                            To-night, against my pillow, with shut eyes,
                            I mean to weld our facesthrough the dense
                            Incalculable darkness make pretense
                            That she has risen from her reveries
                            To mate her dreams with mine in marriages
                            Of mellow palms, smooth faces, and tense case
                            Of every longing nerve of indolence,
                            Lift from the grave her quiet lips, and stun
                            My senses with her kissesdrawl the glee
                            Of her glad mouth, full blithe and tenderly,
                            Across mine own, forgetful if is done
                            The old love's awful dawn-time when said we,
                            "To-day is ours 1". . . Ah, Heaven! can it be
                            She has forgotten meforgotten me!
                        
                    
                    
                        Moon-Drowned
                        
                            'T WAS the height of the fte when we quitted the riot
                            And quietly stole to the terrace alone,
                            Where, pale as the lovers that ever swear by it,
                            The moon it gazed down as a god from his throne:
                            We stood there enchanted.And O the delight of
                            The sight of the stars and the moon and the sea,
                            And the infinite skies of that opulent night of
                            Purple and gold and ivory!
                        
                        
                            The lisp of the lip of the ripple just under
                            The half-awake nightingale's dream in the yews
                            Came up from the water, and down from the wonder
                            Of shadowy foliage, drowsed with the dews,
                            
                            Unsteady the firefly's tapermdash;unsteady
                            The poise of the stars, and their light in the tide,
                            As it struggled and writhed in caress of the eddy,
                            As love in the billowy breast of a bride.
                        
                        
                            The far-away lilt of the waltz rippled to us,
                            And through us the exquisite thrill of the air:
                            Like the scent of bruised bloom was her breath, and its dew was
                            Not honeyer-sweet than her warm kisses were.
                            We stood there enchanted.And O the delight of
                            The sight of the stars and the moon and the sea,
                            And the infinite skies of that opulent night of
                            Purple and gold and ivory!
                        
                    
                    
                        At NoonAnd Midnight
                        
                            FAR in the night, and yet no rest for him! The pillow next his own
                            The wife's sweet face in slumber pressedyet he awakealone! alone!
                            In vain he courted sleep;one thought would ever in his heart arise,
                            The harsh words that at noon had brought the teardrops to her eyes.
                        
                        
                            Slowly on lifted arm he raised and listened. All was still as death;
                            He touched her forehead as he gazed, and listened yet, with bated breath:
                            
                            Still silently, as though he prayed, his lips moved lightly as she slept
                            For God was with him, and he laid his face with hers and wept.
                        
                    
                    
                        When My Dreams Come True
                        
                            I
                            WHEN my dreams come truewhen my dreams come true
                            Shall I lean from out my casement, in the starlight and the dew,
                            To listensmile and listen to the tinkle of the strings
                            Of the sweet guitar my lover's fingers fondle, as he sings?
                            And as the nude moon slowly, slowly shoulders into view,
                            Shall I vanish from his visionwhen my dreams come true?
                        
                        
                            When my dreams come trueshall the simple gown I wear
                            Be raveled to softest satin, and my maiden-braided hair
                            Be raveled into flossy mists of rarest, fairest gold,
                            To be minted into kisses, more than any heart can hold?
                            Or "the summer of my tresses" shall my lover liken to
                            "The fervor of his passion"-when my dreams come true?
                        
                        
                            II
                            When my dreams come trueI shall bide among the sheaves
                            Of happy harvest meadows; and the grasses and the leaves
                            Shall lift and lean between me and the splendor of the sun,
                            
                            Till the noon swoons into twilight, and the gleaners' work is done
                            Save that yet an arm shall bind me, even as the reapers do
                            The meanest sheaf of harvestwhen my dreams come true.
                        
                        
                            When my dreams come true! when ray dreams come true!
                            True love, in all simplicity, is fresh and pure as dew;
                            The blossom in the blackest mold is kindlier to the eye
                            Than any lily born of pride that looms against the sky:
                            And so it is I know my heart will gladly welcome you,
                            My lowliest of lovers, when my dreams come true.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Bat
                        
                            I
                            THOU dread, uncanny thing,
                            With fuzzy breast and leathern wing,
                            In mad, zigzagging flight,
                            Notching the dusk, and buffeting
                            The black cheeks of the night.
                            With grim delight!
                        
                        
                            II
                            What witch's hand unhasps
                            Thy keen claw-cornered wings
                            From under the barn roof, and flings
                            Thee forth, with chattering gasps,
                            To scud the air,
                            And nip the ladybug, and tear
                            Her children's hearts out unaware?
                        
                        
                        
                            III
                            The glow-worm's glimmer, and the bright,
                            Sad pulsings of the firefly's light,
                            Are banquet-lights to thee.
                            O less than bird, and worse than beast,
                            Thou Devil's self, or brat, at least,
                            Grate not thy teeth at me!
                        
                    
                    
                        In the Dark
                        
                            O IN the depths of midnight
                            What fancies haunt the brain!
                            When even the sigh of the sleeper
                            Sounds like a sob of pain.
                        
                        
                            A sense of awe and of wonder
                            I may never well define,
                            For the thoughts that come in the shadows
                            Never come in the shine.
                        
                        
                            The old clock down in the parlor
                            Like a sleepless mourner grieves,
                            And the seconds drip in the silence
                            As the rain drips from the eaves.
                        
                        
                            And I think of the hands that signal
                            The hours there in the gloom,
                            And wonder what angel watchers
                            Wait in the darkened room.
                        
                        
                        
                            And I think of the smiling faces
                            That used to watch and wait,
                            Till the click of the clock was answered
                            By the click of the opening gate.
                        
                        
                            They are not there now in the evening
                            Morning or noon-not there;
                            Yet I know that they keep their vigil,
                            And wait for me Somewhere.
                        
                    
                    
                        At Broad Ripple
                        
                            AH, LUXURY! Beyond the heat
                            And dust of town, with dangling feet
                            Astride the rock below the dam,
                            In the cool shadows where the calm
                            Rests on the stream again, and all
                            Is silent save the waterfall,
                            I bait my hook and cast my line,
                            And feel the best of life is mine.
                        
                        
                            No high ambition may I claim
                            I angle not for lordly game
                            Of trout, or bass, or wary bream
                            A black perch reaches the extreme
                            Of my desires; and "goggle-eyes"
                            Are not a thing that I despise;
                            A sunfish, or a "chub," or "cat"
                            A "silverside"yea, even that!
                        
                        
                        
                            In eloquent tranquillity
                            The waters lisp and talk to me.
                            Sometimes, far out, the surface breaks,
                            As some proud bass an instant shakes:
                            His glittering armor in the sun,
                            And romping ripples, one by one,
                            Come dallying across the space
                            Where undulates my smiling face.
                        
                        
                            The river's story flowing by,
                            Forever sweet to ear and eye,
                            Forever tenderly begun
                            Forever new and never done.
                            Thus lulled and sheltered in a shade
                            Where never feverish cares invade,
                            I bait my hook and cast my line,
                            And feel the best of life is mine.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Days Gone By
                        
                            O THE days gone by! O the days gone by!
                            The apples in the orchard, and the pathway through the rye;
                            The chirrup of the robin, and the whistle of the quail
                            As he piped across the meadows sweet as any nightingale;
                            When the bloom was on the clover, and the blue was in the sky,
                            And my happy heart brimmed over, in the days gone by.
                        
                        
                            In the days gone by, when my naked feet were tripped
                            By the honeysuckle tangles where the water-lilies dipped,
                            And the ripples of the river lipped the moss along the brink
                            Where the placid-eyed and lazy-footed cattle came to drink,
                            And the tilting snipe stood fearless of the truant's wayward cry
                            And the splashing of the swimmer, in the days gone by.
                        
                        
                            O the days gone by! O the days gone by!
                            The music of the laughing lip, the lustre of the eye;
                            The childish faith in fairies, and Aladdin's magic ring
                            The simple, soul-reposing, glad belief in everything,
                            When life was like a story holding neither sob nor sigh,
                            In the golden olden glory of the days gone by.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Jack-ln-The-Box
                        [Grandfather, musing]
                        
                            IN childish days! O memory,
                            You bring such curious things to me!
                            Laughs to the liptears to the eye,
                            In looking on the gifts that lie
                            Like broken playthings scattered o'er
                            Imagination's nursery floor!
                            Did these old hands once click the key
                            That let "Jack's" box-lid upward fly,
                            And that blear-eyed, fur-whiskered elf
                            Leap, as though frightened at himself,
                            And quiveringly lean and stare
                            At me, his jailer, laughing there?
                        
                        
                            A child then! Now I only know
                            They call me very old; and so
                            They will not let me have my way,
                            But uselessly I sit all day
                            Here by the chimney-jamb, and poke
                            The lazy fire, and smoke and smoke,
                            And watch the wreaths swoop up the flue,
                            And chuckleay, I often do
                            Seeing again, all vividly,
                            Jack-in-the-box leap, as in glee
                            To see how much he looks like me!
                        
                        
                            . . . They talk. I can't hear what they say
                            But I am glad, clean through and through
                            Sometimes, in fancying that they
                            Are saying, "Sweet, that fancy strays
                            In age back to our childish days!"
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Funny Little Fellow
                        
                            "TWAS aFunny Little Fellow
                            Of the very purest type,
                            For he had a heart as mellow
                            As an apple overripe;
                            And the brightest little twinkle
                            When a funny thing occurred,
                            And the lightest little tinkle
                            Of a laugh you ever heard!
                        
                        
                            His smile was like the glitter
                            Of the sun in tropic lands,
                            And his talk a sweeter twitter
                            Than the swallow understands;
                            Hear him singand tell a story
                            Snap a jokeignite a pun,
                            'Twas a captureraptureglory,
                            And explosionall in one!
                        
                        
                            Though he hadn't any money
                            That condiment which tends
                            To make a fellow "honey"
                            For the palate of his friends;
                            Sweet simples he compounded
                            Sovereign antidotes for sin
                            Or taint,a faith unbounded
                            That his friends were genuine.
                        
                        
                            He wasn't honored, maybe,
                            For his songs of praise were slim,
                            Yet I never knew a baby
                            That wouldn't crow for him;
                            
                            I never knew a mother
                            But urged a kindly claim
                            Upon him as a brother,
                            At the mention of his name.
                        
                        
                            The sick have ceased their sighing,
                            And have even found the grace
                            Of a smile when they were dying
                            As they looked upon his face;
                            And I've seen his eyes of laughter
                            Melt in tears that only ran
                            As though, swift-dancing after,
                            Came the Funny Little Man.
                        
                        
                            He laughed away the sorrow
                            And he laughed away the gloom
                            We are all so prone to borrow
                            From the darkness of the tomb;
                            And he laughed across the ocean
                            Of a happy life, and passed,
                            With a laugh of glad emotion,
                            Into Paradise at last
                        
                        
                            And I think the Angels knew him,
                            And had gathered to await
                            I His coming, and run to him
                            Through the widely opened Gate,
                            With their faces gleaming sunny
                            For his laughter-loving sake,
                            And thinking, "What a funny
                            Little Angel he will make!"
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Uncle Sidney's Views
                        
                            IHOLD that the true age of wisdom is when
                            We are boys and girls, and not women and men,
                            When as credulous children we know things because
                            We believe themhowever averse to the laws.
                            It is faith, then, not science and reason, I say,
                            That is genuine wisdom.And would that to-day
                            We, as then, were as wise and ineffably blest
                            As to live, love and die, and trust God for the rest!
                        
                        
                            So I simply deny the old notion, you know,
                            That the wiser we get as the older we grow!
                            For in youth all we know we are certain of.Now
                            The greater our knowledge, the more we allow
                            For sceptical margin.And hence I regret
                            That the world isn't flat, and the sun doesn't set,
                            And we may not go creeping up home, when we die,
                            Through the moon, like a round yellow hole in the sky.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Pixy People
                        
                            IT was just a very
                            Merry fairy dream!
                            All the woods were airy
                            With the gloom and gleam;
                            Crickets in the clover
                            Clattered clear and strong,
                            And the bees droned over
                            Their old honey-song!
                        
                        
                        
                            In the mossy passes,
                            Saucy grasshoppers
                            Leaped about the grasses
                            And the thistle-burs;
                            And the whispered chuckle
                            Of the katydid
                            Shook the honeysuckle-
                            Blossoms where he hid.
                        
                        
                            Through the breezy mazes
                            Of the lazy June,
                            Drowsy with the hazes
                            Of the dreamy noon,
                            Little Pixy people
                            Winged above the walk.
                            Pouring from the steeple
                            Of a mullein-stalk.
                        
                        
                            Onea gallant fellow
                            Evidently King,
                            Wore a plume of yellow
                            In a jewelled ring
                            On a pansy bonnet,
                            Gold and white and blue,
                            With the dew still on it,
                            And the fragrance, too.
                        
                        
                            Onea dainty lady,
                            Evidently Queen
                            Wore a gown of shady
                            Moonshine and green,
                            
                            With a lace of gleaming
                            Starlight that sent
                            All the dewdrops dreaming
                            Everywhere she went.
                        
                        
                            One wore a waistcoat
                            Of rose-leaves, out and in;
                            And one wore a faced-coat
                            Of tiger-lily-skin;
                            And one wore a neat coat
                            Of palest galingale;
                            And one a tiny street-coat,
                            And one a swallow-tail.
                        
                        
                            And Ho! sang the King of them,
                            And Hey! sang the Queen;
                            And round and round the ring of them
                            Went dancing o'er the green;
                            And Hey! sang the Queen of them,
                            And Ho! sang the King
                            And all that I had seen of them
                            Wasn't anything!
                        
                        
                            It was just a very
                            Merry fairy dream!
                            All the woods were airy
                            With the gloom and gleam;
                            Crickets in the clover
                            Clattered clear and strong,
                            And the bees droned over
                            Their old honey-song!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Prayer Perfect
                        
                            DEAR Lord! kind Lord!
                            Gracious Lord! I pray
                            Thou wilt look on all I love,
                            Tenderly to-day!
                            Weed their hearts of weariness;
                            Scatter every care
                            Down a wake of angel-wings
                            Winnowing the air.
                        
                        
                            Bring unto the sorrowing
                            All release from pain;
                            Let the lips of laughter
                            Overflow again;
                            And with all the needy
                            O divide, I pray,
                            This vast treasure of content
                            That is mine to-day
                        
                    
                    
                        Winter Fancies
                        
                            I
                            WINTER without
                            And warmth within;
                            The winds may shout
                            And the storm begin;
                            The snows may pack
                            At the window-pane,
                            And the skies grow black,
                            And the sun remain
                            Hidden away
                            The livelong day
                            But herein here is the warmth of May!
                        
                        
                        
                            II
                            Swoop your spitefullest
                            Up the flue,
                            Wild Windsdo!
                            What in the world do I care for you?
                            O delightfullest
                            Weather of all,
                            Howl and squall,
                            And shake the trees till the last leaves fall!
                        
                        
                            III
                            The joy one feels,
                            In an easy-chair,
                            Cocking his heels
                            In the dancing air
                            That wreathes the rim of a roaring stove
                            Whose heat loves better than hearts can love,
                            Will not permit
                            The coldest day
                            To drive away
                            The fire in his blood, and the bliss of it!
                        
                        
                            IV
                            Then blow, Winds, blow!
                            And rave and shriek,
                            And snarl and snow,
                            Till your breath grows weak
                            While here in my room
                            I'm as snugly shut
                            As a glad little worm
                            In the heart of a nut!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        A Child's HomeLong Ago
                        
                            EVEN as the gas-flames flicker to and fro,
                            The Old Man's wavering fancies leap and glow,
                            As o'er the vision, like a mirage, falls
                            The old log cabin with its dingy walls,
                            And crippled chimney with its crutch-like prop
                            Beneath a sagging shoulder at the top:
                            The coonskin battened fast on either side
                            The wisps of leaf-tobacco"cut-and-dried";
                            The yellow strands of quartered apples, hung
                            In rich festoons that tangle in among
                            The morning-glory vines that clamber o'er
                            The little clapboard roof above the door:
                            The old well-sweep that drops a courtesy
                            The stranger, as he drains the dripping gourd,
                            Intuitively murmurs, "Thank the Lord!"
                            Again through mists of memory arise
                            The simple scenes of home before the eyes:
                            The happy mother, humming, with her wheel,
                            The dear old melodies that used to steal
                            So drowsily upon the summer air,
                            The house-dog hid his bone, forgot his care,
                            And nestled at her feet, to dream, perchance,
                            Some cooling dream of winter-time romance:
                            The square of sunshine through the open door
                            That notched its edge across the puncheon floor
                            The god of slumber had a picture drawn
                            Of Babyhood, in all the loveliness
                            Of dimpled cheek and limb and linsey dress:
                            
                            The bough-filled fireplace, and the mantel wide,
                            Its fire-scorched ankles stretched on either side,
                            Where, perched upon its shoulders 'neath the joist,
                            The old clock hiccoughed, harsh and husky-voiced,
                            And snarled the premonition, dire and dread,
                            When it should hammer Time upon the head:
                            Tomatoes, red and yellow, in a row,
                            Preserved not then for diet, but for show,
                            Like rare and precious jewels in the rough
                            Whose worth was not appraised at half enough:
                            The jars of jelly, with their dusty tops;
                            The bunch of pennyroyal; the cordial drops;
                            The flask of camphor, and the vial of squills,
                            The box of buttons, garden-seeds, and pills;
                            And, ending all the mantel's bric-a-brac,
                            The old, time-honored "Family Almanack."
                            And memory, with a mother's touch of love,
                            Climbs with us to the dusky loft above,
                            Where drowsily we trail our fingers in
                            The mealy treasures of the harvest bin;
                            And, feeling with our hands the open track,
                            We pat the bag of barley on the back;
                            And, groping onward through the mellow gloom,
                            We catch the hidden apple's faint perfume,
                            And, mingling with it, fragrant hints of pear
                            And musky melon ripening somewhere.
                            Again we stretch our limbs upon the bed
                            Where first our simple childish prayers were said;
                            And while, without, the gallant cricket trills
                            A challenge to the solemn whippoorwills,
                            
                            And, filing on the chorus with his glee,
                            The katydid whets all the harmony
                            To feather-edge of incoherent song,
                            We drop asleep, and peacefully along
                            To the dim harbor of another day.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Boys
                        
                            WHERE are they?the friends of my childhood en chanted
                            The clear, laughing eyes looking back in my own,
                            And the warm, chubby fingers my palms have so wanted,
                            As when we raced over
                            Pink pastures of clover,
                            And mocked the quail's whir and the bumblebee's drone?
                        
                        
                            Have the breezes of time blown their blossomy faces
                            Forever adrift down the years that are flown?
                            Am I never to see them romp back to their places,
                            Where over the meadow,
                            In sunshine and shadow,
                            The meadow-larks trill, and the bumblebees drone?
                        
                        
                            Where are they? Ah! dim in the dust lies the clover;
                            The whippoorwill's call has a sorrowful tone,
                            And the dove'sI have wept at it over and over;
                            I want the glad lustre
                            Of youth, and the cluster
                            Of faces asleep where the bumblebees drone!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Land of Used-To-Be
                        
                            AND where's the Land of Used-to-be, does little baby wonder?
                            Oh, we will clap a magic saddle over
                                "Poppie's" knee
                            And ride away around the world, and in and out and under
                            The whole of all the golden sunny Summer-time and see.
                        
                        
                            Leisurely and lazy-Iike we'll jostle on our journey,
                            And let the pony bathe his hooves and cool them in the dew,
                            As he sidles down the shady way, and lags along the ferny
                            And green, grassy edges of the lane we travel through.
                        
                        
                            And then we'll canter on to catch the bubble of the thistle
                            As it bumps among the butterflies and glimmers down the sun,
                            To leave us laughing, all content to hear the robin whistle
                            Or guess what Katydid is saying little Katy's done.
                        
                        
                            And pausing here a minute, where we hear the squirrel chuckle
                            As he darts from out the underbrush and scampers up the tree,
                            We will gather buds and locust-blossoms, leaves and honeysuckle,
                            To wreathe around our foreheads, riding into Used-to-be;
                        
                        
                            For here's the very rim of it that we go swinging over
                            Don't you hear the Fairy bugles, and the tinkle of the bells,
                            And see the baby-bumblebees that tumble in the clover
                            And dangle from the tilted pinks and tipsy pimpernels?
                        
                        
                        
                            And don't you see the merry faces of the daffodillies,
                            And the jolly Johnny-jump-ups, and the buttercups a-glee,
                            And the low, lolling ripples ring around the water-lilies?
                            All greeting us with laughter, to the Land of Used-to-be!
                        
                        
                            And here among the blossoms of the blooming vines and grasses,
                            With a haze forever hanging in the sky forever blue,
                            And with a breeze from over seas to kiss us as it passes,
                            We will romp around forever as the airy Elfins do!
                        
                        
                            For all the elves of earth and air are swarming here together
                            The prankish Puck, King Oberon, and Queen Titania too;
                            And dear old Mother Goose herself, as sunny as the weather,
                            Comes dancing down the dewy walks to welcome me and you!
                        
                    
                    
                        Mabel
                        
                            SWEET little face, so full of slumber now
                            Sweet lips unlifted now with any kiss
                            Sweet dimpled cheek and chin, and snowy brow,
                            What quietude is this?
                        
                        
                            O speak! Have you forgotten, yesterday,
                            How gladly you came running to the gate
                            To meet us in the old familiar way,
                            So joyousso elate
                        
                        
                        
                            So filled with wildest glee, yet so serene
                            With innocence of song and childish chat,
                            With all the dear caresses in between
                            Have you forgotten that?
                        
                        
                            Have you forgotten, knowing gentler charms,
                            The boisterous love of one you ran to greet
                            When you last met, who caught you in his arms
                            And kissed you, in the street?
                        
                        
                            Not very many days have passed since then,
                            And yet between that kiss and him there lies
                            No pathway of returnunless again,
                            In streets of Paradise,
                        
                        
                            Your eager feet come twinkling down the gold
                            Of some bright thoroughfare ethereal,
                            To meet and greet him there just as of old.
                            Till then, farewellfarewell.
                        
                    
                    
                        Baby's Dying
                        
                            BABY'S dying,
                            Do not stir
                            Let her spirit lightly float
                            Through the sighing
                            Lips, of her
                            Still the murmur in the throat;
                            Let the moan of grief be curbed
                            Baby must not be disturbed!
                        
                        
                        
                            Baby's dying,
                            Do not stir
                            Let her pure life lightly swim
                            Through the sighing
                            Lips of her
                            Out from us and up to HIM
                            Let her leave us with that smile
                            Kiss and miss her after while.
                        
                    
                    
                        Uninterpreted
                        
                            SUPINELY we He in the grove's shady greenery,
                            Gazing, all dreamy-eyed, up through the trees,
                            And as to the sight is the heavenly scenery,
                            So to the hearing the sigh of the breeze.
                        
                        
                            We catch but vague rifts of the blue through the wavering
                            Boughs of the maples; and, like undefined,
                            The whispers and lisps of the leaves, faint and quavering,
                            Meaningless falter and fall on the mind.
                        
                        
                            The vine, with its beauty of blossom, goes rioting
                            Up by the casement, as sweet to the eye
                            As the trill of the robin is restful and quieting
                            Heard in a drowse with the dawn in the sky.
                        
                        
                            And yet we yearn on to learn more of the mystery
                            We see and we hear, but forever remain
                            Mute, blind and deaf to the ultimate history
                            Born of a rose or a patter of rain.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        He Called Her In
                        
                            HE called her in from me and shut the door.
                            And she so loved the sunshine and the sky!
                            She loved them even better yet than I
                            That ne'er knew dearth of themmy mother dead,
                            Nature had nursed me in her lap instead:
                            And I had grown a dark and eerie child
                            That rarely smiled,
                            Save when, shut all alone in grasses high,
                            Looking straight up in God's great lonesome sky
                            And coaxing Mother to smile back on me.
                            'Twas lying thus, this fair girl suddenly
                            Came on me, nestled in the fields beside
                            A pleasant-seeming home, with doorway wide
                            The sunshine beating in upon the floor
                            Like golden rain.
                            O sweet, sweet face above me, turn again
                            And leave me! I had cried, but that an ache
                            Within my throat so gripped it I could make
                            No sound but a thick sobbing. Cowering so,
                            I felt her light hand laid
                            Upon my haira touch that ne'er before
                            Had tamed me thus, all soothed and unafraid
                            It seemed the touch the children used to know
                            When Christ was here, so dear it wasso dear,
                            At once I loved her as the leaves love dew
                            In midmost summer when the days are new.
                            Barely an hour I knew her, yet a curl
                            Of silken sunshine did she clip for me
                            Out of the bright May-morning of her hair,
                            And bound and gave it to me laughingly, no
                            
                            And caught my hands and called me "Little girl,"
                            Tiptoeing, as she spoke, to kiss me there!
                            And I stood dazed and dumb. for very stress
                            Of my great happiness.
                            She plucked me by the gown, nor saw how mean
                            The raimentdrew me with her everywhere:
                            Smothered her face in tufts of grasses green:
                            Put up her dainty hands and peeped between
                            Her fingers at the blossomscrooned and talked
                            To them in strange, glad whispers, as we walked,
                            Said this one was her angel motherthis,
                            Her baby-sistercome back, for a kiss,
                            Clean from the Good-World!smiled and kissed them, then
                            Closed her soft eyes and kissed them d'er again.
                            And so did she beguile meso we played,
                            She was the dazzling ShineI, the dark Shade
                            And we did mingle like to these, and thus,
                            Together, made
                            The perfect summer, pure and glorious.
                            So blent we, till a harsh voice broke upon
                            Our happiness.She, startled as a fawn,
                            Cried, "Oh, 'tis Father!"all the blossoms gone
                            From out her cheeks as those from out her grasp.
                            Harsher the voice came:She could only gasp
                            Affrightedly, "Good-bye!good-bye! good-bye!"
                            And lo, I stood alone, with that harsh cry
                            Ringing a new and unknown sense of shame
                            Through soul and frame,
                            And, with wet eyes, repeating d'er and d'er,
                            "He called her in from me and shut the door!"'
                            
                            He called her in from me and shut the door!
                            And I went wandering alone again
                            So lonelyO so very lonely then,
                            I thought no little sallow star, alone
                            In all a world of twilight, e'er had known
                            Such utter loneliness. But that I wore
                            Above my heart that gleaming tress of hair
                            To lighten up the night of my despair,
                            I think I might have groped into my grave
                            Nor cared to wave
                            The ferns above it with a breath of prayer.
                            And how I hungered for the sweet, sweet face
                            That bent above me in my hiding-place
                            That day amid the grasses there beside
                            Her pleasant home!"Her pleasant home!" I sighed,
                            Remembering;then shut my teeth and feigned
                            The harsh voice calling methen clinched my nails
                            So deeply in my palms, the sharp wounds pained,
                            And tossed my face toward heaven, as one who pales
                            In splendid martyrdom, with soul serene,
                            As near to God as high the guillotine.
                            And I had envied her? Not thatO no!
                            But I had longed for some sweet haven sol
                            Wherein the tempest-beaten heart might ride
                            Sometimes at peaceful anchor, and abide
                            Where those that loved me touched me with their hands,
                            And looked upon me with glad eyes, and slipped
                            Smooth fingers o'er my brow, and lulled the strands
                            Of my wild tresses, as they backward tipped
                            My yearning face and kissed it satisfied.
                            Then bitterly I murmured as before 
                            "He called her in from me and shut the door!"
                            
                            He called her in from me and shut the door!
                            After long struggling with my pride and pain
                            A weary while it seemed, in which the more
                            I held myself from her, the greater fain
                            Was I to look upon her face again;
                            At lastat lasthalf conscious where my feet
                            Were faring, I stood waist-deep in the sweet
                            Green grasses there where she
                            First came to me.
                            The very blossoms she had plucked that day,
                            And, at her father's voice, had cast away,
                            Around me lay,
                            Still bright and blooming in these eyes of mine;
                            And as I gathered each one eagerly,
                            I pressed it to my lips and drank the wine
                            Her kisses left there for the honey-bee.
                            Then, after I had laid them with the tress
                            Of her bright hair with lingering tenderness,
                            I, turning, crept on to the hedge that bound
                            Her pleasant-seeming homebut all around
                            Was never sign of her!The windows all
                            Were blinded; and I heard no rippling fall
                            Of her glad laugh, nor any harsh voice call;
                            But, clutching to the tangled grasses, caught
                            A sound as though a strong man bowed his head
                            And sobbed aloneunloveduncomforted!
                            And then straightway before
                            My tearless eyes, all vividly, was wrought
                            A vision that is with me evermore:
                            A little girl that lies asleep, nor hears
                            Nor heeds not any voice nor fall of tears.
                            And I sit singing o'er and o'er and o'er,
                            "God called her in from him and shut the door!"
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Mother Goose
                        
                            DEAR Mother Goose I most motherly and dear
                            Of all good mothers who have laps wherein
                            We children nestle safest from all sin,
                            I cuddle to thy bosom, with no fear
                            To there confess that though thy cap be queer,
                            And thy curls gimlety, and thy cheeks thin,
                            And though the winkered mole-upon thy chin
                            Tickles thy very nose-tip,still to hear
                            The jolly jingles of mine infancy
                            Crooned by thee, makes mine eager arms, as now,
                            To twine about thy neck full tenderly,
                            Drawing the dear old face down, that thy brow
                            May dip into my purest kiss, and be
                            Crowned ever with the baby-love of me.
                        
                    
                    
                        The All-Golden
                        
                            I
                            THROUGH every happy line I sing
                            I feel the tonic of the Spring.
                            The day is like an old-time face
                            That gleams across some grassy place
                            Who rises from the grave to come
                            And lure me back along the ways
                            Of time's all-golden yesterdays.
                            Sweet day! to thus remind me of
                            The truant boy I used to love
                            Against the blossom of his lips,
                            And pipe for me the signal known
                            By none but him and me alone!
                        
                        
                        
                            II
                            I see, across the school-room floor,
                            The shadow of the open door,
                            And dancing dust and sunshine blent
                            Slanting the way the morning went,
                            And beckoning my thoughts afar
                            Where reeds and running waters are;
                            Where amber-colored bayous glass
                            The half-drown'd weeds and wisps of grass,
                            Where sprawling frogs, in loveless key,
                            Sing on and on incessantly.
                            Against the green wood's dim expanse
                            The cattail tilts its tufted lance,
                            While on its tipone might declare
                            The white "snake-feeder" blossomed there!
                        
                        
                            III
                            I catch my breath, as children do
                            In woodland swings when life is new,
                            And all the blood is warm as wine
                            And tingles with a tang divine.
                            My soul soars up the atmosphere
                            And sings aloud where God can hear,
                            And all my being leans intent
                            To mark His smiling wonderment.
                            O gracious dream, and gracious time,
                            And gracious theme, and gracious rhyme
                            When buds of Spring begin to. blow
                            In blossoms that we used to know
                            And lure us back along the ways
                            Of time's all-golden yesterdays!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Longfellow's Love for the Children
                        
                            DWAKE, he loved their voices,
                            And wove them into his rhyme;
                            And the music of their laughter
                            Was with him all the time.
                        
                        
                            Though he knew the tongues of nations,
                            And their meanings all were dear.
                            The prattle and lisp of a little child
                            Was the sweetest for him to hear.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Little-Red-Apple Tree
                        
                            THE Little-red-apple Tree!
                            O the Little-red-apple Tree!
                            When I was the little-est bit of a boy
                            And you were a boy with me!
                            The bluebird's flight from the topmost boughs,
                            And the boys up thereso high
                            That we rocked over the roof of the house
                            And whooped as the winds went by!
                        
                        
                            Hey! The Little-red-apple Tree!
                            With the garden-beds below,
                            And the old grape-arbor so welcomely
                            Hiding the rake and hoe!
                            Hiding, too, as the sun dripped through
                            In spatters of wasted gold,
                            Frank and Amy away, from you
                            And me in the days of old!
                        
                        
                        
                            The Little-red-apple Tree!
                            In the edge of the garden-spot,
                            Where the apples fell so lavishly
                            Into the neighbor's lot;
                            So do I think of you alway,
                            Brother of mine, as the tree,
                            Giving the ripest wealth of your love
                            To the world as well as me.
                        
                        
                            Ho! The Little-red-apple Tree!
                            Sweet as its juiciest fruit
                            Spanged on the palate spicily.
                            And rolled o'er the tongue to boot,
                            Is the memory still and the joy
                            Of the Little-red-apple Tree,
                            When I was the little-est bit of a boy
                            And you were a boy with me!
                        
                    
                    
                        The Way the Baby Slept
                        
                            THIS is the way the baby slept:
                            A mist of tresses backward thrown
                            By quavering sighs where kisses crept
                            With yearnings she had never known;
                            The little hands were closely kept
                            About a lily newly blown
                            And God was with her. And we wept
                            And this is the way the baby slept
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        McFeeters' Fourth
                        
                            IT was needless to say 'twas a glorious day,
                            And to boast of it all in that spread-eagle way
                            That our Forefathers had since the hour of the birth
                            Of this most patriotic republic on earth!
                            But 'twas justice, of course, to admit that the sight
                            Of the old Stars-and-Stripes was a thing of delight
                            In the eyes of a fellow, however he tried
                            To look on the day with a dignified pride
                            That meant not to brook any turbulent glee
                            Or riotous flourish of loud jubilee!
                        
                        
                            So argued McFeeters, all grim and severe,
                            Who the long night before, with a'feeling of fear,
                            Had slumbered but fitfully, hearing the swish
                            Of the sky-rocket over his roof, with the wish
                            That the boy-fiend who fired it were fast to the end
                            Of the stick to for ever and ever ascend!
                            Or to hopelessly ask why the boy with the horn
                            And its horrible havoc had ever been born!
                            Or to wish, in his wakefulness, staring aghast,
                            That this Fourth of July were as dead as the last!
                        
                        
                            So, yesterday morning, McFeeters arose,
                            With a fire in his eyes, and a cold in his nose,
                            And a guttural voice in appropriate key
                            With a temper as gruff as a temper could be.
                            He growled at the servant he met on the stair,
                            Because he was whistling a national air,
                            And he growled at the maid on the balcony, who
                            Stood enrapt with the tune of "The Red-White-and-Blue"
                            That a band was discoursing like mad in the street,
                            With drumsticks that banged, and with cymbals that beat.
                        
                        
                        
                            And he growled at his wife, as she buttoned his vest,
                            And applausively pinned a rosette on his breast
                            Of the national colors, and lured from his purse
                            Some change for the boysfor fire-crackersor worse;
                            And she pointed with pride to a soldier in blue
                            In a frame on the wall, and the colors there, too;
                            And he felt, as he looked on the features, the glow
                            The painter found there twenty long years ago,
                            And a passionate thrill in his breast, as he felt
                            Instinctively round for the sword in his belt
                        
                        
                            What was it that hung like a mist o'er the room?
                            The tumult withoutand the musicthe boom
                            Of the cannonthe blare of the bugle and fife?
                            No matter!McFeeters was kissing his wife,
                            And laughing and crying and waving his hat
                            Like a genuine soldier, and crazy, at that!
                            
                                Was it needless to say 'twas a glorious day
                            And to boast of it all in that spread-eagle way
                            That our Forefathers had since the hour of the birth
                            Of this most patriotic republic on earth?
                        
                    
                    
                        The Way the Baby Came
                        
                            O THIS is the way the baby came:
                            Out of the night as comes the dawh;
                            Out of the embers as the flame;
                            Out of the bud the blossom on
                            The apple-bough that blooms the same
                            As in glad summers dead and gone
                            With a grace and beauty none could name
                            O this is the way the baby came!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        A Sleeping Beauty
                        
                            I
                            AN alien wind that blew and blew
                            Over the fields where the ripe grain grew,
                        
                        
                            Sending ripples of shine and shade
                            That crept and crouched at her feet and played.
                        
                        
                            The sea-like summer washed the moss
                            Till the sun-drenched lilies hung like floss,
                        
                        
                            Draping the throne of green and gold
                            That lulled her there like a queen of old.
                        
                        
                            II
                            Was it the hum of a bumblebee,
                            Or the long-hushed bugle eerily
                        
                        
                            Winding a call to the daring Prince
                            Lost in the wood long ages since?
                        
                        
                            A dim old wood, with a palace rare
                            Hidden away in its depths somewhere!
                        
                        
                            Was it the Princess, tranced in sleep,
                            Awaiting her lover's touch to leap
                        
                        
                            Into the arms that bent above?
                            To thaw his heart with the breath of love
                        
                        
                            And cloy his lips, through her waking tears,
                            With the dead-ripe kiss of a hundred years I
                        
                        
                        
                            III
                            An alien wind that blew and blew.
                            I had blurred my eyes as the artists do,
                        
                        
                            Coaxing life to a half-sketched face,
                            Or dreaming bloom for a grassy place.
                        
                        
                            The bee droned on in an undertone;
                            And a shadow-bird trailed all alone
                        
                        
                            Across the wheat, while a liquid cry
                            Dripped from above, as it went by.
                        
                        
                            What to her was the far-off whir
                            Of the quail's quick wing or the chipmunk's chirr?
                        
                        
                            What to her was the shade that slid
                            Over the hill where the reapers hid?
                        
                        
                            Or what the hunter, with one foot raised,
                            As he turned to goyet, pausing, gazed?
                        
                    
                    
                        Exceeding All
                        
                            LONG life's a lovely thing to know,
                            With lovely health and wealth, forsooth,
                            And lovely name and fameBut O
                            The loveliness of Youth!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        When Early March Seems Middle May
                        
                            WHEN country roads begin to thaw
                            In mottled spots of damp and dust,
                            And fences by the margin draw
                            Along the frosty crust
                            Their graphic silhouettes, I say,
                            The Spring is coming round this way.
                        
                        
                            When morning-time is bright with sun
                            And keen with wind, and both confuse
                            The dancing, glancing eyes of one
                            With tears that ooze and ooze
                            And nose-tips weep as well as they,
                            The Spring is coining round this way.
                        
                        
                            When suddenly some shadow-bird
                            Goes wavering beneath the gaze,
                            And through the hedge the moan is heard
                            Of kine that fain would graze
                            In grasses new, I smile and say,
                            The Spring is coming round this way.
                        
                        
                            When knotted horse-tails are untied,
                            And teamsters whistle here and there,
                            And clumsy mitts are laid aside
                            And choppers' hands are bare,
                            And chips are thick where children play,
                            The Spring is coming round this way.
                        
                        
                            When through the twigs the farmer tramps,
                            And troughs are chunked beneath the trees,
                            And fragrant hints of sugar-camps
                            Astray in every breeze,
                            
                            When early March seems middle May,
                            The Spring is coming round this way.
                        
                        
                            When coughs are changed to laughs, and when
                            Our frowns melt into smiles of glee,
                            And all our blood thaws out again
                            In streams of ecstasy,
                            And poets wreak their roundelay,
                            The Spring is coming round this way.
                        
                    
                    
                        A Sudden Shower
                        
                            BAREFOOTED boys scud up the street
                            Or scurry under sheltering sheds;
                            And school-girl faces, pale and sweet,
                            Gleam from the shawls about their heads.
                        
                        
                            Doors bang; and mother-voices call
                            From alien homes; and rusty gates.
                            Are slammed; and high above it all,
                            The thunder grim reverberates.
                        
                        
                            And then, abrupt,the rain! the rain!
                            The earth lies gasping; and the eyes
                            Behind the streaming window-pane
                            Smile at the trouble of the skies.
                        
                        
                            The highway smokes; sharp echoes, ring;
                            The cattle bawl and cow-bells clank;
                            And into town comes galloping
                            The farmer's horse, with steaming flank.
                        
                        
                        
                            The swallow dips beneath the eaves
                            And flirts his plumes and folds his wings;
                            And under the Catawba leaves
                            The caterpillar curls and clings.
                        
                        
                            The bumblebee is pelted down
                            The wet stem of the hollyhock;
                            And sullenly, in spattered brown,
                            The cricket leaps the garden-walk.
                        
                        
                            Within, the baby claps his hands
                            And crows with rapture strange and vague;
                            Without, beneath the rose-bush stands
                            A dripping rooster on one leg.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Song of Yesterday
                        
                            I
                            BUT yesterday
                            I looked away
                            O'er happy lands, where sunshine lay
                            In golden blots,
                            Inlaid with spots
                            Of shade and wild forget-me-nots.
                        
                        
                            My head was fair
                            With flaxen hair,
                            And fragrant breezes, faint and rare,
                            And, warm with drouth
                            From out the south,
                            Blew all my curls across my mouth.
                        
                        
                        
                            And, cool and sweet,
                            My naked feet
                            Found dewy pathways through the wheat;
                            And out again
                            Where, down the lane,
                            The dust was dimpled with the rain.
                        
                        
                            II
                            But yesterday!
                            Adream, astray,
                            From morning's red to evening's gray,
                            O'er dales and hills
                            Of daffodills
                            And lorn sweet-fluting whippoorwills.
                        
                        
                            I knew nor cares
                            Nor tears nor prayers
                            A mortal god, crowned unawares
                            With sunsetand
                            A sceptre-wand
                            Of apple-blossoms in my hand!
                        
                        
                            The dewy blue
                            Of twilight grew
                            To purple, with a star or two
                            Whose lisping rays
                            Failed in the blaze
                            Of sudden fireflies through the haze.
                        
                        
                        
                            III
                            But yesterday
                            I heard the lay
                            Of summer birds, when I, as they
                            With breast and wing,
                            All quivering
                            With life and love, could only sing.
                        
                        
                            My head was leant
                            Where, with it, blent
                            A maiden's, o'er her instrument;
                            While all the night,
                            From vale to height,
                            Was filled with echoes of delight.
                        
                        
                            And all our dreams
                            Were lit with gleams
                            Of that lost land of reedy streams,
                            Along whose brim
                            Pan's lilies, laughing up at him.
                        
                        
                            IV
                            But yesterday!. . .
                            O blooms of May,
                            And summer roseswhere away?
                            O stars above;
                            And lips of love,
                            And all the honeyed sweets thereof!
                        
                        
                        
                            O lad and lass,
                            And orchard pass,
                            And briered lane, and daisied grass!
                            O gleam and gloom,
                            And woodland bloom,
                            And breezy breaths of all perfume!
                        
                        
                            No more for me
                            Or mine shall be
                            Thy rapturessave in memory,
                            No moresave in memory,
                            Till through the Door
                            Of Glory gleam the days of yore.
                        
                    
                    
                        SongFor November
                        
                            WHILE skies glint bright with bluest light
                            Through clouds that race o'er field and town,
                            And leaves go dancing left and right,
                            And orchard apples tumble down;
                            While school-girls sweet, in lane or street,
                            Lean 'gainst the wind and feel and hear
                            Its glad heart like a lover's beat,
                            So reigns the rapture of the year.
                        
                        
                            
                                Then ho! and hey! and whoop-hooray!
                            
                            
                                Though winter clouds be looming,
                            
                            
                                Remember a November day
                            
                            
                                Is merrier than mildest May
                            
                            
                                With all her blossoms blooming
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            While birds in scattered flight are blown
                            Aloft and lost in bosky mist,
                            And truant boys scud home alone
                            'Neath skies of gold and amethyst;
                            While twilight falls, and echo calls
                            Across the haunted atmosphere,
                            With low, sweet laughs at intervals,
                            So reigns the rapture of the year.
                        
                        
                            
                                Then ho! and hey! and whoop-hooray!
                            
                            
                                Though winter clouds be looming
                            
                            
                                Remember a November day
                            
                            
                                Is merrier than mildest May
                            
                            
                                With all her blossoms blooming.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        On the Sunny Side
                        
                            HI and whoop-hooray, boys!
                            Sing a song of cheer!
                            Here's a holiday, boys,
                            Lasting half a year!
                            Round the world, and half is
                            Shadow we have tried;
                            Now we're where the laugh is,
                            On the sunny side!
                        
                        
                            Pigeons coo and mutter,
                            Strutting high aloof
                            Where the sunbeams flutter
                            Through the stable roof.
                            
                            Hear the chickens cheep, boys,
                            And the hen with pride
                            Clucking them to sleep, boys,
                            On the sunny side!
                        
                        
                            Hear the clacking guinea;
                            Hear the cattle moo;
                            Hear the horses whinny,
                            Looking out at you!
                            On the hitching-block, boys,
                            Grandly satisfied,
                            See the old peacock, boys,
                            On the sunny side!
                        
                        
                            Robins in the peach-tree;
                            Bluebirds in the pear;
                            Blossoms over each tree
                            In the orchard there!
                            All the world's in joy, boys,
                            Glad and glorified
                            As a romping boy, boys,
                            On the sunny side!
                        
                        
                            Where's a heart as mellow
                            Where's a soul as free
                            Where is any fellow
                            We would rather be?
                            Just ourselves or none, boys,
                            World around and wide,
                            Laughing in the sun, boys,
                            On the sunny side!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        His Christmas Sled
                        
                            I
                            I WATCH him, with his Christmas sled;
                            He hitches on behind
                            A passing sleigh, with glad hooray,
                            And whistles down the wind;
                            He hears the horses champ their bits,
                            And bells that jingle-jingle
                            You Woolly Cap! you Scarlet Mitts!
                            You miniature "Kriss Kringle!"
                        
                        
                            I almost catch your secret joy
                            Your chucklings of delight,
                            The while you whiz where glory is
                            Eternally in sight!
                            With you I catch my breath, as swift
                            Your jaunty sled goes gliding
                            O'er glassy track and shallow drift,
                            As I behind were riding!
                        
                        
                            II
                            He winks at twinklings of the frost,
                            And on his airy race,
                            Its tingles beat to redder heat
                            The rapture of his face:
                            The colder, keener is the air,
                            The less he cares a feather.
                            But, there! he's gone! and I gaze on
                            The wintriest of weather!
                        
                        
                        
                            Ah, Boy! still speeding o'er the track
                            Where none returns again,
                            To sigh for you, or cry for you,
                            Or die for you were vain.
                            And so, speed on! the while I pray
                            All nipping frosts forsake you
                            Ride still ahead of grief, but may
                            All glad things overtake you!
                        
                    
                    
                        The Rider of the Knee
                        
                            KNIGHTLY Rider of the Knee
                            Of Proud-prancing Unclery!
                            Gaily mount, and wave the sign
                            Of that mastery of thine.
                        
                        
                            Pat thy steed and turn him free,
                            Knightly Rider of the Knee!
                            Sit thy charger as a throne
                            Lash him with thy laugh alone:
                        
                        
                            Sting him only with the spur
                            Of such wit as may occur,
                            Knightly Rider of the Knee,
                            In thy shriek of ecstasy.
                        
                        
                            Would, as now, we might endure,
                            Twain as onethou miniature
                            Ruler, at the rein of me
                            Knightly Rider of the Knee!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Dusk-SongThe Beetle
                        
                            THE shrilling locust slowly sheathes
                            His dagger-voice, and creeps away
                            Beneath the brooding leaves where breathes
                            The zephyr of the dying day:
                            One naked star has waded through
                            The purple shallows of the night,
                            And faltering as falls the dew
                            It drips its misty light.
                        
                        
                            
                                O'er garden blooms,
                            
                            
                                On tides of musk.
                            
                            
                                The beetle booms adown the glooms
                            
                            
                                And bumps along the dusk.
                            
                        
                        
                            The katydid is rasping at
                            The silence from the tangled broom:
                            On drunken wings the flitting bat
                            Goes staggering athwart the gloom;
                            The toadstool bulges through the weeds,
                            And lavishly to left and right
                            The fireflies, like golden seeds,
                            Are sown about the night.
                        
                        
                            
                                O'er slumbrous blooms,
                            
                            
                                On floods of musk,
                            
                            
                                The beetle booms adown the glooms
                            
                            
                                And bumps along the dusk.
                            
                        
                        
                            The primrose flares its baby-hands
                            Wide open, as the empty moon.
                            Slow lifted from the underlands,
                            Drifts up the azure-arched lagoon;
                        
                        
                        
                            The shadows on the garden walk
                            Are frayed with rifts of silver light;
                            And, trickling down the poppy-stalk.
                            The dewdrop streaks the night.
                        
                        
                            
                                O'er folded blooms,
                            
                            
                                On swirls of musk,
                            
                            
                                The beetle booms adown the glooms
                            
                            
                                And bumps along the dusk.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        Billy Could Ride
                        
                            I
                            BILLY was born for a horse's back!
                            That's what Grandfather used to say:
                            He'd seen him in dresses, a-many a day,
                            On a two-year-old, in the old barn-lot,
                            Prancing around, with the bridle slack,
                            And his two little sunburnt legs outshot
                            So straight from the saddle-seat you'd swear
                            A spirit-level had plumbed him there!
                            And all the neighbors that passed the place
                            Would just haul up in the road and stare
                            To see the little chap's father boost
                            The boy up there on his favorite roost,
                            To canter off, with a laughing face.
                            Put him up there, he was satisfied
                            And O the way that Billy could ride!
                        
                        
                        
                            II
                            At celebration or barbecue
                            And Billy, a boy of fifteen years
                            Couldn't he cut his didoes there?
                            What else would you expect him to,
                            On his little mettlesome chestnut mare,
                            With her slender neck, and her pointed ears,
                            And the four little devilish hooves of hers?
                            The "delegation" moved too slow
                            For the time that Billy wanted to go!
                            And to see him dashing out of the line
                            At the edge of the road and down the side
                            Of the long procession, all laws defied,
                            And the fife and drums, was a sight divine
                            To the girls, in their white-and-spangled pride,
                            Wearily waving their scarfs about
                            In the great "Big Wagon," all gilt without
                            And jolt within, as they lumbered on
                            Into the town where Billy had gone
                            An hour ahead, like a knightly guide
                            O but the way that Billy could ride!
                        
                        
                            III
                            "Billy can ride! Oh, Billy can ride!
                            But what on earth can he do beside?"
                            That's what the farmers used to say,
                            As time went by a year at a stride,
                            And Billy was twenty if he was a day!
                            And many a wise old father's foot
                            Was put right down where it should be put,
                            
                            While many a dutiful daughter sighed
                            In vain for one more glorious ride
                            With the gallant Billy, who none the less
                            Smiled at the old man's selfishness
                            And kissed his daughter, and rode away,
                            Touched his horse in the flankand zipp!
                            
                            Talk about horses and horsemanship!
                            Folks stared after him just wild-eyed. . . .
                            
                                Oomh! the way that Billy could ride!
                        
                    
                    
                        Honey Dripping From the Comb
                        
                            HOW slight a thing may set one's fancy drifting
                            Upon the dead sea of the Past!A view
                            Sometimes an odoror a rooster lifting
                            A far-off "Ooh! ooh-ooh!"
                        
                        
                            And suddenly we find ourselves astray
                            In some wood's-pasture of the Long Ago
                            Or idly dream again upon a day
                            Of rest we used to know.
                        
                        
                            I bit an apple but a moment since
                            A wilted apple that the worm had spurned,
                            Yet hidden in the taste were happy hints
                            Of good old days returned.
                        
                        
                            And so my heart, like some enraptured lutt,
                            Tinkles a tune so tender and complete,
                            God's blessing must be resting on the frait
                            S0 bitter, yet so sweet!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Time of Clearer Twitterings
                        
                            I
                            TIME of crisp and tawny leaves,
                            And of tarnished harvest sheaves,
                            And of dusty grassesweeds
                            Thistles, with their tufted seeds
                            Voyaging the Autumn breeze
                            Like as fairy argosies:
                            Time of quicker flash of wings,
                            And of clearer twitterings
                            In the grove or deeper shade
                            Of the tangled everglade,-
                            Where the spotted water-snake
                            Coils him in the sunniest brake;
                            And the bittern, as in fright,
                            Darts, in sudden, slanting flight,
                            Southward, while the startled crane
                            Films his eyes in dreams again.
                        
                        
                            II
                            Down along the dwindled creek
                            We go loitering. We speak
                            Only with old questionings
                            Of the dear remembered things
                            Of the days of long ago,
                            When the stream seemed thus and so
                            In our boyish eyes:The bank
                            Greener then, through rank on rank
                            Of the mottled sycamores,
                            Touching tops across Hie shores:
                            
                            Here, the hazel thicket stood
                            There, the almost pathless wood
                            Where the shellbark hickory-tree
                            Rained its wealth on you and me.
                            Autumn! as you loved us then,
                            Take us to your heart again 1
                        
                        
                            III
                            Season halest of the year
                            How the zestful atmosphere
                            Nettles blood and iram and smites
                            Into life the old delights
                            We have wasted in our youth,
                            And our graver years, forsooth!
                            How again the boyish heart
                            Leaps to see the chipmunk start
                            From the brush and sleek the sun's
                            Very beauty, as he runs!
                            How again a subtle hint
                            Of crushed pennyroyal or mint
                            Sends us on our knees, as when
                            We were truant boys of ten
                            Brown marauders of the wood,
                            Merrier than Robin Hood!
                        
                        
                            IV
                            Ah! will any minstrel say,
                            In his sweetest roundelay,
                            What is sweeter, after all,
                            Than black haws, in early Fall?
                            
                            Fruit so sweet the frost first sat,
                            Dainty-toothed, and nibbled at!
                            And will any poet sing
                            Of a lusher, richer thing
                            Than a ripe May-apple, rolled
                            Like a pulpy lump of gold
                            Under thumb and finger-tips,
                            And poured molten through the lips?
                            Go, ye bards of classic themes,
                            Pipe your songs by classic streams!
                            I would twang the redbird's wings
                            In the thicket while he sings!
                        
                    
                    
                        Curly Locks
                        
                            
                                CURLY Locks! Curly Locks! will thou be mine?
                            
                            
                                Thou shalt not wash the dishes, nor yet feed the swine,
                            
                            
                                But sit on a cushion and sew a fine seam,
                            
                            
                                And feast upon strawberries, sugar and cream.
                            
                        
                        
                            Curly Locks! Curly Locks! wilt thou be mine?
                            The throb of my heart is in every line,
                            And the pulse of a passion as airy and glad
                            In its musical beat as the little Prince had!
                        
                        
                            Thou shalt not wash the dishes, nor yet feed the swine!
                            O I'll dapple thy hands with these kisses of mine
                            Till the pink of the nail of each finger shall be
                            As a little pet blush in full blossom for me.
                        
                        
                        
                            But sit on a cushion and sew a fine seam,
                            And thou shalt have fabric as fair as a dream,
                            The red of my veins, and the white of my love,
                            And the gold of my joy for the braiding thereof.
                        
                        
                            And feast upon strawberries, sugar and cream
                            From a service of silver, with jewels agleam,
                            At thy feet will I bide, at thy beck will I rise,
                            And twinkle my soul in the night of thine eyes!
                        
                        
                            
                                Curly Locks! Curly Locks! wilt thou be mine?
                            
                            
                                Thou shall not wash the dishes, nor yet feed the swine,
                            
                            
                                But sit on a cushion and sew a fine seam,
                            
                            
                                And feast upon strawberries, sugar and cream.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        Pansies
                        
                            PANSIES! Pansiest How I love you, pansies!
                            Jaunty-faced, laughing-lipped and dewy-eyed with glee;
                            Would my song but blossom out in little five-leaf stanzas
                            As delicate in fancies
                            As your beauty is to me!
                        
                        
                            But my eyes shall smile on you, and my hands infold you,
                            Pet, caress, and lift you to the lips that love you so,
                            That, shut ever in the years that may mildew or mould you,
                            My fancy shall behold you
                            Fair as in the long ago.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Brook-Song
                        
                            LITTLE brook! Little brook!
                            You have such a happy look
                            Such a very merry manner, as you swerve and curve and crook
                            And your ripples, one and one,
                            Reach each other's hands and run
                            Like laughing little children in the sun!
                        
                        
                            Little brook, sing to me:
                            Sing about a bumblebee
                            That tumbled from a lily-bell and grumbled mumblingly,
                            Because he wet the film
                            Of his wings, and had to swim,
                            While the water-bugs raced round and laughed at him!
                        
                        
                            Little brook-sing a song
                            Of a leaf that sailed along
                            Down the golden-braided centre of your current swift and strong,
                            And a dragon-fly that lit
                            On the tilting rim of it,
                            And rode away and wasn't scared a bit.
                        
                        
                            And singhow oft in glee
                            Came a truant boy like me,
                            Who loved to lean and listen to your lilting melody,
                            Till the gurgle and refrain
                            Of your music in his brain
                            Wrought a happiness as keen to him as pain.
                        
                        
                        
                            Little brooklaugh and leap!
                            Do not let the dreamer weep:
                            Sing him all the songs of summer till he sink in softest sleep
                            And then sing soft and low
                            Through his dreams of long ago
                            Sing back to him the rest he used to know!
                        
                    
                    
                        A Nonsense Rhyme
                        
                            RINGLETY-JING!
                            And what will we sing?
                            Some little crinkety-crankety thing
                            That rhymes and chimes,
                            And skips, sometimes,
                            As though wound up with a kink in the spring.
                        
                        
                            Grunkety-krung!
                            And chunkety-plung!
                            Sing the song that the bullfrog sung,-
                            A song of the soul
                            Of a mad tadpole
                            That met his fate in a leaky bowl:
                            And it's O for the first false wiggle he made
                            In a sea of pale pink lemonade!
                            And it's O for the thirst
                            Within him pent,
                            And the hopes that burst
                            As his reason went
                            When his strong arm failed and his strength was spent!
                        
                        
                        
                            Sing, O sing
                            Of the things that cling,
                            And the claws that clutch and the fangs that sting
                            Till the tadpole's tongue
                            And his tail upflung
                            Quavered and failed with a song unsung!
                            O the dank despair in the rank morass,
                            Where the crawfish crouch in the cringing grass,
                            And the long limp rune of the loon wails on
                            For the mad, sad soul
                            Of a bad tadpole
                            Forever lost and gone!
                        
                        
                            Jinglety-jee!
                            And now we'll see
                            What the last of the lay shall be,
                            As the dismal tip of the tune, O friends,
                            Swoons away and the long tale ends.
                            And it's O and alack!
                            For the tangled legs
                            And the spangled back.
                            Of the green grig's eggs,
                            And the unstrung strain
                            Of the strange refrain
                            That the winds wind up like a strand of rain!
                        
                        
                            And it's O,
                            Also,
                            For the ears wreathed low,
                            Like a laurel-wreath on the lifted brow
                            Of the frog that chants of the why and how,
                            
                            And the wherefore too, and the thus and so
                            Of the wail he weaves in a woof of woe!
                            Twangle, then, with your wrangling strings,
                            The tinkling links of a thousand things!
                            And clang the pang of a maddening moan
                            Till the Echo, hid in a land unknown,
                            Shall leap as he hears, and hoot and hoo
                            Like the wretched wraith of a Whoopty-Doo!
                        
                    
                    
                        The Dream of the Little Princess
                        
                            'TWAS a curious dream, good sooth!
                            The dream of The Little Princess;
                            It seemed a dream, yet a truth,
                            Long years ago in her youth.
                            It came as a dreamno less
                            It was not a dream, she says.
                        
                        
                            (She is singing and saying things
                            Musical as the wile
                            Of the eerie quaverings
                            That drip from the grievd strings
                            Of her lute.We weep or smile
                            Even as she, meanwhile.)
                        
                        
                            In a day, long dead and gone,
                            When her castle-turrets threw
                            Their long, sharp shadows on
                            The sward like fences,wan
                            And lone, she strayed into
                            Strange grounds where lilies grew.
                        
                        
                        
                            There, late in the afternoon,
                            As she sate in the terrace shade,
                            Rav'ling a half-spun tune
                            From a lute like a wee new-moon,
                            High off was a bugle played,
                            And a sound as of steeds that neighed.
                        
                        
                            And the lute fell from her hands,
                            As her eyes raised, half in doubt,
                            To the arch of the azure lands
                            Where lo! with the fluttering strands
                            Of a rainbow reined about
                            His wrist, rode a horseman out.
                        
                        
                            And The Little Princess was stirred
                            No less at his steeds than him;
                            A jet-black span of them gird
                            In advance, he bestrode the third;
                            And the troop of* them seemed to swim
                            The skies as the Seraphim.
                        
                        
                            Wingless they were, yet so
                            Upborne in their wondrous flight
                            As their master bade them go,
                            They dwindled on high; or lo!
                            They curved from their heavenmost height
                            And swooped to'her level sight.
                        
                        
                            And the eyes of The Little Princess
                            Grow O so bright as the chants
                            Of the horseman's courtliness,
                            Saluting her lowAh, yes!
                            And lifting a voice that haunts
                            Her own song's weird romance.
                        
                        
                        
                            For (she sings) at last he swept
                            As near to her as the tips
                            Of the lilies, that whitely slept,
                            As he leaned o'er one and wept
                            And touched it with his lips
                            Sweeter than honey-drips!
                        
                        
                            And she keeps the lily yet
                            As the horseman bade (she says)
                            As he launched, with a wild curvet,
                            His steeds toward the far sunset,
                            Till gulfed in its gorgeousness
                            And lost to The Little Princess:
                        
                        
                            
                                But O, my master sweet!
                            
                            
                                He is coming again! (she sings)
                            
                            
                                My Prince of the Coursers fleet,
                            
                            
                                With his bugle's echoing!,
                            
                            
                                And the breath of his voice for the wings
                            
                            
                                Of the sandals of his feet!
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        The Way the Baby Woke
                        
                            AND this is the way the baby woke:
                            As when in deepest drops of dew
                            The shine and shadows sink and soak,
                            The sweet eyes glimmered through and through;
                            And eddyings and dimples broke
                            About the lips, and no one knew
                            Or could divine the words they spoke
                            And this is the way the baby woke.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Circus-Day Parade
                        
                            OH! the Circus-Day Parade! How the bugles played and played!
                            And how the glossy horses tossed their flossy manes and neighed,
                            As the rattle and the rhyme of the tenor-drummer's time
                            Filled all the hungry hearts of us with melody sublime!
                        
                        
                            How the grand band-wagon shone with a splendor all its own,
                            And glittered with a glory that our dreams had never known!
                            And how the boys behind, high and low of every kind,
                            Marched in unconscious capture, with a rapture undefined!
                        
                        
                            How the horsemen, two and two, with their plumes of white and blue
                            And crimson, gold and purple, nodding by at me and you,
                            Waved the banners that they bore, as the knights in days of yore,
                            Till our glad eyes gleamed and glistened like the spangles that they wore!
                        
                        
                            How the graceless-graceful stride of the elephant was eyed,
                            And the capers of the little horse that cantered at his side!
                            How the shambling camels, tame to the plaudits of their fame,
                            With listless eyes came silent, masticating as they came.
                        
                        
                            How the cages jolted past, with each wagon battened fast,
                            And the mystery within it only hinted of at last
                            From the little grated square in the rear, and nosing there
                            The snout of some strange animal that sniffed the outer air!
                        
                        
                        
                            And, last of all, The Clown, making mirth for all the town,
                            With his lips curved ever upward and his eyebrows ever down,
                            And his chief attention paid to the little mule that played
                            A tattoo on the dash-board with his heels, in the Parade.
                        
                        
                            Oh! the Circus-Day Parade! How the bugles played and played
                            And how the glossy horses tossed their flossy manes and neighed,
                            As the rattle and the rhyme of the tenor-drummer's time
                            Filled all the hungry hearts of us with melody sublime!
                        
                    
                    
                        Little Girly-Girl
                        
                            LITTLE Girly-Girl, of you
                            Still forever I am dreaming.
                            Laughing eyes of limpid blue
                            Tresses glimmering and gleaming
                            Like glad waters running over
                            Shelving shallows, rimmed with clover,
                            Trembling where the eddies whirl,
                            Gurgling, "Little Girly-Girl!"
                        
                        
                            For your name it came to me
                            Down the brink of brooks that brought it
                            Out of Paradiseand we
                            Love and Iwe, leaning, caught it
                            From the ripples romping nigh us,
                            And the bubbles bumping by us
                            Over shoals of pebbled pearl,
                            Lilting, "Little Girly-Girl!"
                        
                        
                        
                            That was long and long ago,
                            But in memory the tender
                            Winds of summer weather blow,
                            And the roses burst in splendor;
                            And the meadow's grassy billows
                            Break in blossoms round the willows
                            Where the currents curve and curl,
                            Calling, "Little Girly-Girl!"
                        
                    
                    
                        The Boy-Friend
                        
                            CLARENCE, my boy-friend, hale and strong!
                            O he is as jolly as he is young;
                            And all of the laughs of the lyre belong
                            To the boy all unsung:
                        
                        
                            So I want to sing something in his behalf
                            To clang some chords, for the good it is
                            To know he is near, and to have the laugh
                            Of that wholesome voice of his.
                        
                        
                            I want to tell him in gentler ways
                            Than prose may do, that the arms of rhyme
                            Warm and tender with tuneful praise,
                            Are about him all the time.
                        
                        
                            I want him to know that the quietest nights
                            We have passed together are yet with me,
                            Roistering over the eld delights
                            That were born of his company.
                        
                        
                        
                            I want him to know how my soul esteems
                            The fairy stories of Andersen,
                            And the glad translations of all the themes
                            Of the hearts of boyish men.
                        
                        
                            Want him to know that my fancy flows,
                            With the lilt of a dear old-fashioned tune,
                            Through "Lewis Carroll's" poemly prose,
                            And the tale of "The Bold Dragoon."
                        
                        
                            O this is the Prince that I would sing
                            Would drape and garnish in velvet line,
                            Since courtlier far than any king
                            Is this brave boy-friend of mine.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Old, Old Wish
                        
                            LAST night, in some lost mood of meditation,
                            The while my dreamy vision ranged th>^ir
                            Unfathomable arches of creation,
                            I saw a falling star:
                        
                        
                            And as my eyes swept round the path it embered
                            With the swift-dying glory of its glow,
                            With sudden intuition I remembered,
                            A wish of long ago
                        
                        
                            A wish that, were it madeso ran the fancy
                            Of credulous young lover and of lass
                            As fell a star, by some strange necromancy,
                            Would surely come to pass.
                        
                        
                        
                            And, of itself, the wish, reiterated
                            A thousand times in youth, flashed o'er my brain,
                            And, like the star, as soon obliterated,
                            Dropped into night again.
                        
                        
                            For my old heart had wished for the unending
                            Devotion of a little maid of nine
                            And that the girl-heart, with the woman's blending,
                            Might be forever mine.
                        
                        
                            And so it was, with eyelids raised, and weighty
                            With ripest clusterings of sorrow's dew,
                            I cried aloud through heaven: "O little Katie!
                            When will my wish come true?"
                        
                    
                    
                        A Mother-Song
                        
                            MOTHER, O mother! forever I cry for you,
                            Sing the old song I may never forget;
                            Even in slumber I murmur and sign for you.
                            Mother, O Mother,
                            Sing low, "Little brother,
                            Sleep, for thy mother bends over thee yet!"
                        
                        
                            Mother, O mother! the years are so lonely,
                            Filled but with weariness, doubt and regret!
                            Can't you come back to mefor to-night only,
                            Mother, my mother,
                            And sing, "Little brother,
                            Sleep, for thy mother bends over thee yet!"
                        
                        
                        
                            Mother, O mother! of old I bad never
                            One wish denied me, nor trouble to fret;
                            Nowmust I cry out all vainly forever,
                            Mother, sweet mother,
                            O sing, "Little brother,
                            Sleep, for thy mother bends over thee yet!"
                        
                        
                            Mother, O mother! must longing and sorrow
                            Leave me in darkness, with eyes ever wet,
                            And never the hope of a meeting to-morrow?
                            Answer me, mother,
                            And sing, "Little brother,
                            Sleep, for thy mother bends over thee yet!"
                        
                    
                    
                        With the Current
                        
                            RAREST mood of all the year!
                            Aimless, idle, and content
                            Sky and wave and atmosphere
                            Wholly indolent.
                        
                        
                            Little daughter, loose the band
                            From your tresseslet them pour
                            Shadow-like o'er arm and hand
                            Idling at the oar.
                        
                        
                            Low and clear, and pure and deep,
                            Ripples of the river sing
                            Water-lilies, half asleep,
                            Drowsed with listening:
                        
                        
                        
                            Tremulous reflex of skies
                            Skies above and skies below,
                            Paradise and Paradise
                            Blending even so!
                        
                        
                            Blossoms with their leaves unrolled
                            Laughingly, as they were lips
                            Cleft with ruddy beaten gold
                            Tongues of pollen-tips.
                        
                        
                            Rush and reed, and thorn and vine,
                            Clumped with grasses lithe and tall
                            With a web of summer-shine
                            Woven round it all.
                        
                        
                            Back and forth, and to and fro
                            Flashing scale and wing as one,
                            Dragon-flies that come and go,
                            Shuttled by the sun.
                        
                        
                            Fairy lilts and lullabies,
                            Fine as fantasy conceives,
                            Echoes wrought of cricket-cries
                            Sifted through the leaves.
                        
                        
                            O'er the rose, with drowsy buzz,
                            Hangs the bee, and stays his kiss,
                            Even as my fancy does,
                            Gypsy, over this.
                        
                        
                        
                            Let us both be childrenshare
                            Youth's glad voyage night and day,
                            Drift adown it, half aware,
                            Anywhere we may.
                        
                        
                            Drift and curve and deviate,
                            Veer and eddy, float and flow,
                            Waver, swerve and undulate,
                            As the bubbles go.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Hunter Boy
                        
                            HUNTER Boy of Hazelwood
                            Happier than Robin Hood!
                            Dance across the green, and stand
                            Suddenly, with lifted hand
                            Shading eager eyes, and be
                            Thus content to capture me!
                            Cease thy quest for wilder prey
                            Than my willing heart to-day!
                        
                        
                            Hunter Boy! with belt and bow,
                            Bide with me, or let me go,
                            An thou wilt, in wake of thee,
                            Questing for my mine infancy!
                            With thy glad face in the sun,
                            Let thy laughter overrun
                            Thy ripe lips, until mine own
                            Answer, ringing, tone for tone!
                        
                        
                        
                            O my Hunter! tilt the cup
                            Of thy silver bugle up,
                            And like wine pour out for me
                            All its limpid melody!
                            Pout thy happy lips and blare
                            Music's kisses everywhere
                            Whiff o'er forest, field and town,
                            Tufts of tune like thistle-down!
                            O to go, as once I could,
                            Hunter Boy of Hazelwood!
                        
                    
                    
                        The Whitheraways
                        (Set Sail, October 15, 1890)
                        
                            THE Whitheraways!That's what I'll have to call
                            Yousailing off, with never a word at all
                            Of parting!sailing 'way across the sea,
                            With never one good-bye to meto ME!
                        
                        
                            Sailing away from me, with no farewell!
                            Ah, Parker Hitt and sister Muriel
                            And Rodney, too, and little Lauranceall
                            Sailing awayjust as the leaves, this Fall!
                        
                        
                            Well, then, I too shall sail on cheerily
                            As now you all go sailing o'er the sea:
                            I've other little friends with me on shore
                            Though they but make me yearn for you the more!
                        
                        
                        
                            And so, sometime, dear little friends afar,
                            When this faint voice shall reach you, and you are
                            All just a little homesick, you must be
                            As brave as I am now, and think of me!
                        
                        
                            Or, haply, if your eyes, as mine, droop low,
                            And would be humored with a tear or so,
                            Go to your Parents, Children!let them do
                            The crying'twill be easier for them to!
                        
                    
                    
                        The Orchard Lands of Long Ago
                        
                            THE orchard lands of Long Ago!
                            O drowsy winds, awake, and blow
                            The snowy blossoms back to me,
                            And all the buds that used to be!
                            Blow back along the grassy ways
                            Of truant feet, and lift the haze
                            Of happy summer from the trees
                            That trail their tresses in the seas
                            Of grain that float and overflow
                            The orchard lands of Long Ago!
                        
                        
                            Blow back the melody that slips
                            In lazy laughter from the lips
                            That marvel much if any kiss
                            Is sweeter than the apple's is.
                            Blow back the twitter of the birds
                            The lisp, the titter, and the words
                            
                            Of merriment that found the shine
                            Of summer-time a glorious wine
                            That drenched the leaves that loved it so,
                            In orchard lands of Long Ago!
                        
                        
                            O memory! alight and sing
                            Where rosy-bellied pippins cling,
                            And golden russets glint and gleam,
                            As, in the old Arabian dream,
                            The fruits of that enchanted tree
                            The glad Aladdin robbed for me!
                            And, drowsy winds, awake and fan
                            My blood as when it overran
                            A heart ripe as the apples grow
                            In orchard lands of Long Ago!
                        
                    
                    
                        A Passing Hail
                        
                            LET us rest ourselves a bit!
                            Worry?wave your hand to it
                            Kiss your finger-tips, and smile
                            It farewell a little while.
                        
                        
                            Weary of the weary way
                            We have come from Yesterday,
                            Let us fret us not, instead,
                            Of the weary way ahead.
                        
                        
                            Let us pause and catch our breath
                            On the hither side of death,
                            
                            While we see the tender shoots
                            Of the grassesnot the roots,
                        
                        
                            While we yet look downnot up
                            To seek out the buttercup
                            And the daisy where they wave
                            O'er the green home of the grave.
                        
                        
                            Let us launch us smoothly on
                            The soft billows of the lawn,
                            And drift out across the main
                            Of our childish dreams again:
                        
                        
                            Voyage off, beneath the trees,
                            O'er the field's enchanted seas,
                            Where the lilies are our sails,
                            And our sea-gulls, nightingales:
                        
                        
                            Where no wilder storm shall beat
                            Than the wind that waves the wheat,
                            And no tempest-burst above
                            The old laughs we used to love:
                        
                        
                            Lose all troublesgain release,
                            Languor, and exceeding peace,
                            Cruising idly o'er the vast,
                            Calm mid-ocean of the Past
                        
                        
                            Let us rest ourselves a bit!
                            Worry?Wave your hand to it
                            Kiss your finger-tips, and smile
                            It farewell a little while.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Envoy
                        
                            MANY pleasures of Youth have been buoyantly sung
                            And, borne on the winds of delight, may they beat
                            With their palpitant wings at the hearts of the Young,
                            And in bosoms of Age find as warm a retreat!
                            Yet sweetest of all of the musical throng,
                            Though least of the numbers that upward aspire,
                            Is the one rising now into wavering song,
                            As I sit in the silence and gaze in the fire.
                        
                        
                            'Tis a Winter long dead that beleaguers my door
                            And muffles his steps in the snows of the past:
                            And I see, in the embers I'm dreaming before,
                            Lost faces of love as they looked on me last:
                            The round, laughing eyes of the desk-mate of old
                            Gleam out for a moment with truant desire
                            Then fade and are lost in a City of Gold,
                            As I sit in the silence and gaze in the fire.
                        
                        
                            And then comes the face, peering back in my own,
                            Of a shy little girl, with her lids drooping low,
                            As she faltering tells, in a far-away tone,
                            The ghost of a story of long, long ago.
                            Then her dewy blue eyes they are lifted again;
                            But I see their glad light slowly fail and expire,
                            As I reach and cry to her in vain, all in vain!
                            As I sit in the silence and gaze in the fire.
                        
                        
                            Then the face of a Mother looks back, through the mist
                            Of the tears that are welling; and, lucent with light,
                            I see the dear smile of the lips I have kissed
                            As she knelt by my cradle at morning and night;
                            
                            And my arms are outheld, with a yearning too wild
                            For any but God in His love to inspire,
                            As she pleads at the foot of His throne for her child,
                            As I sit in the silence and gaze in the fire.
                        
                        
                            O pathos of rapture! O glorious pain!
                            My heart is a blossom of joy overrun
                            With a shower of tears, as a lily with rain
                            That weeps in the shadow and laughs in the sun.
                            The blight of the frost may descend on the tree,
                            And the leaf and the flower may fall and expire.
                            But ever and ever love blossoms for me,
                            As I sit in the silence and gaze in the fire.
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    GREEN FIELDS AND RUNNING BROOKS
                    
                        A Country Pathway
                        
                            I COME upon it suddenly, alone
                            A little pathway winding in the weeds
                            That fringe the roadside; and with dreams my own,
                            I wander as it leads.
                        
                        
                            Full wistfully along the slender way,
                            Through summer tan of freckled shade and shine,
                            I take the path that leads me as it may
                            Its every choice is mine.
                        
                        
                            A chipmunk, or a sudden-whirring quail,
                            Is startled by my step as on I fare
                            A garter-snake across the dusty trail
                            Glances andis not there.
                        
                        
                            Above the arching jimson-weeds flare twos
                            And twos of sallow-yellow butterflies,
                            Like blooms of lorn primroses blowing loose
                            When autumn winds arise.
                        
                        
                            The trail dipsdwindlesbroadens then, and lifts
                            Itself astride a cross-road dubiously,
                            And, from the fennel marge beyond it, drifts
                            Still onward, beckoning me.
                        
                        
                        
                            And though it needs must lure me mile on mile
                            Out of the public highway, still I go,
                            My thoughts, far in advance in Indian-file,
                            Allure me even so.
                        
                        
                            Why, I am as a long-lost boy that went
                            At dusk to bring the cattle to the bars,
                            And was not found again, though Heaven lent
                            His mother all the stars
                        
                        
                            With which to seek him through that awful night
                            O years of nights as vain!Stars never rise
                            But well might miss their glitter in the light
                            Of tears in mother-eyes!
                        
                        
                            Soon, with quickened breaths, I follow still
                            My avant-courier must be obeyed!
                            Thus am I led, and thus the path, at will,
                            Invites me to invade
                        
                        
                            A meadow's precincts, where my daring guide
                            Clambers the steps of an old-fashioned stile,
                            And stumbles down again, the other side,
                            To gambol there awhile
                        
                        
                            In pranks of hide-and-seek, as on ahead
                            I see it running, while the clover-stalks
                            Shake rosy fists at me, as though they said
                            "You dog our country-walks.
                        
                        
                        
                            "And mutilate us with your walking-stick!
                            We will not suffer tamely what you do,
                            And warn you at your peril,for we'll sic
                            Our bumblebees on you!"
                        
                        
                            But I smile back, in airy nonchalance,
                            The more determined on my wayward quest,
                            As some bright memory a moment dawns
                            A morning in my breast
                        
                        
                            Sending a thrill that hurries me along
                            In faulty similes of childish skips,
                            Enthused with lithe contortions of a song
                            Performing on my lips.
                        
                        
                            In wild meanderings o'er pasture wealth
                            Erratic wanderings through dead'ning-lands,
                            Where sly old brambles, plucking me by stealth,
                            Put berries in my hands:
                        
                        
                            Or the path climbs a boulderwades a slough
                            Or, rollicking through buttercups and flags,
                            Goes gaily dancing o'er a deep bayou
                            On old tree-trunks and snags:
                        
                        
                            Or, at the creek, leads o'er a limpid pool
                            Upon a bridge the stream itself has made,
                            With some Spring-freshet for the mighty tool
                            That its foundation laid.
                        
                        
                        
                            I pause a moment here to bend and muse,
                            With dreamy eyes, on my reflection, where
                            A boat-backed bug drifts on a helpless cruise,
                            Or wildly oars the air,
                        
                        
                            As, dimly seen, the pirate of the brook
                            The pike, whose jaunty hulk denotes his speed
                            Swings pivoting about, with wary look
                            Of low and cunning greed.
                        
                        
                            Till, filled with other thought, I turn again
                            To where the pathway enters in a realm
                            Of lordly woodland, under sovereign reign
                            Of towering oak and elm.
                        
                        
                            A puritanic quiet here reviles
                            The almost whispered warble from the hedge,
                            And takes a locust's rasping voice and files
                            The silence to an edge.
                        
                        
                            In such a solitude my somber way
                            Strays like a misanthrope within a gloom
                            Of his own shadowstill the perfect day
                            Bursts into sudden bloom,
                        
                        
                            And crowns a long, declining stretch of space.
                            Where King Corn's armies lie with flags unfurled,
                            And where the valley's dint in Nature's face
                            Dimples a smiling world.
                        
                        
                        
                            And lo I through mists that may not be dispelled,
                            I see an old farm homestead, as in dreams,
                            Where, like a gem in costly setting held,
                            The old log cabin gleams.
                        
                        
                            O darling Pathway! lead me bravely on
                            Adown your valley-way, and run before
                            Among the roses crowding up the lawn
                            And thronging at the door,
                        
                        
                            And carry up the echo there that shall
                            Arouse the drowsy dog, that he may bay
                            The household out to greet the prodigal
                            That wanders home to-day.
                        
                    
                    
                        Judith
                        
                            OHER eyes are amber-fine
                            Dark and deep as wells of wine,
                            While her smile is like the noon
                            Splendor of a day of June.
                            If she sorrowlo! her face
                            It is like a flowery space
                            In bright meadows, overlaid
                            With light clouds and lulled with shade.
                            If she laughit is a trill
                            Of the wayward whippoorwill
                            Over upland pastures, heard
                            Echoed by the mocking-bird
                            
                            In dim thickets dense with bloom
                            And blurred cloyings of perfume.
                            If she sigha zephyr swells
                            Over odorous asphodels
                            And wan lilies in lush plots
                            Of moon-drown'd forget-me-nots.
                            Then, the soft touch of her hand
                            Takes all breath to understand
                            What to liken it thereto!
                            Never roseleaf rinsed with dew
                            Might slip soother-suave than slips
                            Her slow palm, the while her lips
                            Swoon through mine, with kiss on kiss
                            Sweet as heated honey is.
                        
                    
                    
                        John Brown
                        
                            WRIT in between the lines of his life-deed
                            We trace the sacred service of a heart
                            Answering the Divine command, in every part
                            Bearing on human weal: His love did feed
                            The loveless; and his gentle hands did lead
                            The blind, and lift the weak, and balm the smart
                            Of other wounds than rankled at the dart
                            In his own breast, that gloried thus to bleed.
                            He served the lowliest firstnay, them alone
                            The most despisd that e'er wreaked vain breath
                            In cries of suppliance in the reign whereat
                            Red Guilt sate squat upon her spattered throne.
                            For these doomed there it was he went to death.
                            God! how the merest man loves one like that!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Where-Away
                        
                            O THE Lands of Where-Away!
                            Tell ustell uswhere are they?
                            Through the darkness and the dawn
                            We have journeyed on and on
                            From the cradle to the cross
                            From possession unto loss
                            Seeking still, from day to day,
                            For the lands of Where-Away.
                        
                        
                            When our baby-feet were first
                            Planted where the daisies burst,
                            And the greenest grasses grew
                            In the fields we wandered through,
                            On, with childish discontent,
                            Ever on and on we went,
                            Hoping still to pass, some day,
                            O'er the verge of Where-Away.
                        
                        
                            Roses laid their velvet lips
                            On our own, with fragrant sips;
                            But their kisses held us not.
                            All their sweetness we forgot;
                            Though the brambles in our track
                            Plucked at us to hold us back
                            "Just ahead," we used to say,
                            "Lie the Lands of Where-Away."
                        
                        
                            Children at the pasture-bars,
                            Through the dusk, like glimmering stars,
                            Waved their hands that we should bide
                            With them over eventide:
                            
                            Down the dark their voices failed
                            Falteringly, as they hailed,
                            And died into yesterday
                            Night ahead andWhere-Away?
                        
                        
                            Twining arms about us thrown
                            Warm caresses, all our own,
                            Can but stay us for a spell
                            Love hath little new to tell
                            To the soul in need supreme,
                            Aching ever with the dream
                            Of the endless bliss it may
                            Find in Lands of Where-Away!
                        
                    
                    
                        Being His Mother
                        
                            BEING his mother,when he goes away
                            I would not hold him overlong, and so
                            Sometimes my yielding sight of him grows O
                            So quick of tears, I joy he did not stay
                            To catch the faintest rumor of them! Nay,
                            Leave always his eyes clear and glad, although
                            Mine own, dear Lord, do fill to overflow;
                            Let his remembered features, as I pray,
                            Smile ever on me! Ah! what stress of love
                            Thou givest me to guard with Thes thiswise:
                            Its fullest speech ever to be denied
                            Mine ownbeing his mother! All thereof
                            Thou knowest only, looking from the skies
                            As when not Christ alone was crucified.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        A Water-Color
                        
                            LOW hidden in among the forest-trees
                            An artist's tilted easel, ankle-deep
                            In touseled ferns and mosses, and in these
                            A fluffy water-spaniel, half asleep
                            Beside a sketch-book and a fallen hat
                            A little wicker flask tossed into that.
                        
                        
                            A sense of utter carelessness and grace
                            Of pure abandon in the slutnb'rous scene,
                            As if the June, all hoydenish of face,
                            Had romped herself to sleep there on the green
                            And brink and sagging bridge and sliding stream
                            Were just romantic parcels of her dream.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Old Year and the New
                        
                            I
                            AS one in sorrow looks upon
                            The dead face of a loyal friend,
                            By the dim light of New Year's dawn
                            I saw the Old Year end.
                        
                        
                            Upon the pallid features lay
                            The dear old smileso warm and bright
                            Ere thus its cheer had died away
                            In ashes of delight.
                        
                        
                        
                            The hands that I had learned to love
                            With strength of passion half divine,
                            Were folded now, all heedless of
                            The emptiness of mine.
                        
                        
                            The eyes that once had shed their bright
                            Sweet looks like sunshine, now were dull,
                            And ever lidded from the light
                            That made them beautiful.
                        
                        
                            II
                            The chimes of bells were in the air,
                            And sounds of mirth in hall and street,
                            With pealing laughter everywhere
                            And throb of dancing feet:
                        
                        
                            The mirth and the convivial din
                            Of revelers in wanton glee,
                            With tunes of harp and violin
                            In tangled harmony.
                        
                        
                            But with a sense of nameless dread,
                            I turned me, from the merry face
                            Of this newcomer, to my dead;
                            And, kneeling there a space,
                        
                        
                            I sobbed aloud, all tearfully:
                            By this dear face so fixed and cold,
                            O Lord, let not this New Year be
                            As happy as the old!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        North and South
                        
                            OF the North I wove a dream,
                            All bespangled with the gleam
                            Of the glancing wings of swallows
                            Dipping ripples in a stream,
                            That, like a tide of wine,
                            Wound through lands of shade and shine
                            Where purple grapes hung bursting on the vine.
                        
                        
                            And where orchard-boughs were bent
                            Till their tawny fruitage blent
                            With the golden wake that marked the
                            Way the happy reapers went;
                            Where the dawn died into noon
                            As the May-mists into June,
                            And the dusk fell like a sweet face in a swoon.
                        
                        
                            Of the South I dreamed: And there
                            Came a vision clear and fair
                            As the marvelous enchantments
                            Of the mirage of the air;
                            And I saw the bayou-trees.
                            With their lavish draperies,
                            Hang heavy o'er the moon-washed cypress-knees.
                        
                        
                            Peering from lush fens of rice,
                            I beheld the Negro's eyes,
                            Lit with that old superstition
                            Death itself can not disguise;
                            And I saw the palm-tree nod
                            Like an Oriental god,
                            And the cotton froth and bubble from the pod.
                        
                        
                        
                            And I dreamed that North and South,
                            With a sigh of dew and drouth,
                            Blew each unto the other
                            The salute of lip and mouth;
                            And I wakened, awed and thrilled
                            Every doubting murmur stilled
                            In the silence of the dream I found fulfilled.
                        
                    
                    
                        Blind
                        
                            YOU think it is a sorry thing
                            That I am blind. Your pitying
                            Is welcome to me; yet indeed,
                            I think I have but little need
                            Of it. Though you may marvel much
                            That we, who see by sense of touch
                            And taste and hearing, see things you
                            
                            May never look upon; and true
                            Is it that even in the scent
                            Of blossoms we find something meant
                            No eyes have in their faces read,
                            Or wept to see interpreted.
                        
                        
                            And you might think it strange if now
                            I told you you were smiling. How
                            Do I know that? I hold your hand
                            
                                Its language I can understand
                            Give both to me, and I will show
                            You many other things I know.
                            Listen: We never met before
                            Till now?Well, you are something lower
                            
                            Than five-feet-eight in height; and you
                            Are slender; and your eyes are blue
                            Your mother's eyesyour mother's hair
                            Your mother's likeness everywhere
                            Save in your walkand that is quite
                            Your father's; nervous.Am I right?
                            I thought so. And you used to sing,
                            But have neglected everything
                            Of vocalismthough you may
                            Still thrum on the guitar, and play
                            A little on the violin,
                            I know that by the callous in
                            The finger-tips of your left hand
                            And, by-the-by, though nature planned
                            You as most men, you are, I see,
                            "Left-handed," too,the mystery
                            Is clear, though,your right arm has been
                            Broken, to "break" the left one in.
                            And so, you see, though blind of sight,
                            I still have ways of seeing quite
                            Too well for you to sympathize
                            Excessively, with your good eyes.
                            Though once, perhaps, to be sincere,
                            Within the whole asylum here,
                            From cupola to basement hall,
                            I was the blindest of them all!
                        
                        
                            Let us move farther down the walk
                            The man here waiting hears my talk,
                            And is disturbed; besides, he may
                            Not be quite friendly anyway.
                            
                            In fact(this will be far enough;
                            Sit down)the man just spoken of
                            Was once a friend of mine. He came
                            For treatment here from Burlingame
                            A rich though brilliant student there,
                            Who read his eyes out of repair,
                            And groped his way up here, where we
                            Became acquainted, and where he
                            Met one of our girl-teachers, and,
                            If you'll believe me, asked her hand
                            In marriage, though the girl was blind
                            As I amand the girl declined.
                            Odd, wasn't it? Look, you can see
                            Him waiting there. Fine, isn't he?
                            And handsome, eloquently wide
                            And high of brow, and dignified
                            With every outward grace, his sight
                            Restored to him, clear and bright
                            As day-dawn; waiting, waiting still
                            For the blind girl that never will
                            Be wife of his. How do I know?
                            Yon will recall a while ago
                            I told you he and I were friends.
                            In all that friendship comprehends,
                            I was his friend, I swear! why, now,
                            Remembering his love, and how
                            His confidence was all my own,
                            I hear, in fancy, the low tone
                            Of his deep voice, so full of pride
                            And passion, yet so pacified
                            With his affliction, that it seems
                            An utterance sent out of dreams
                            
                            Of saddest melody, withal
                            So sorrowfully musical
                            It was, and is, must ever be
                            But I'm digressing, pardon me.
                            
                                I knew not anything of love
                            In those days, but of that above
                            All worldly passion,for my art
                            Music,and that, with all my heart
                            And soul, blent in a love too great
                            For words of mine to estimate.
                            And though among my pupils she
                            Whose love my friend sought came to me,
                            I only knew her fingers' touch
                            Because they loitered overmuch
                            In simple scales, and needs must be
                            Untangled almost constantly.
                            But she was bright in other ways,
                            And quick of thought; with ready plays
                            Of wit, and with a voice as sweet
                            To listen to as one might meet
                            In any oratorio
                            And once I gravely told her so,
                            And, at my words, her limpid tone
                            Of laughter faltered to a moan,
                            And fell from that into a sigh
                            That quavered all so wearily,
                            That I, without the tear that crept
                            Between the keys, had known she wept;
                            And yet the hand I reached for then
                            She caught away, and laughed again.
                            And when that evening I strolled
                            With my old friend, I, smiling, told
                            
                            Him I believed the girl, and he
                            Were matched and mated perfectly:
                            He was so noble; she, so fair
                            Of speech, and womanly of air;
                            He, strong, ambitious; she, as mild
                            And artless even as a child;
                            And with a nature, I was sure,
                            As worshipful as it was pure
                            And sweet, and brimmed with tender things
                            Beyond his rarest fancyings.
                            He stopped me solemnly. He knew,
                            He said, how good, and just, and true
                            Was all I said of her; but as
                            For his own virtues, let them pass,
                            Since they were nothing to the one
                            That he had set his heart upon;
                            For but that morning she had turned
                            Forever from him. Then I learned
                            That for a month he had delayed
                            His going from us, with no aid
                            Of hope to hold him,meeting still
                            Her ever-firm denial, till
                            Not even in his new-found sight
                            He found one comfort or delight.
                            And as his voice broke there, I felt
                            The brother-heart within me melt
                            In warm compassion for his own
                            That throbbed so utterly alone.
                            And then a sudden fancy hit
                            Along my brain; and coupling it
                            With a belief that I, indeed,
                            Might help my friend in his great need,
                            
                            I warmly said that I would go
                            Myself, if he decided so,
                            And see her for himthat I knew
                            My pleadings would be listened to
                            Most seriously, and that she
                            Should love him, listening to me.
                            Go; bless me! And that was the last
                            The last time his warm hand shut fast
                            Within my ownso empty since,
                            That the remembered finger-prints
                            I've kissed a thousand times, and wet
                            Them with the tears of-all regret!
                        
                        
                            I know not how to rightly tell
                            How fared my quest, and what befell
                            Me, coming in the presence of
                            That blind girl, and her blinder love.
                            I know but little else than that
                            Above the chair in which she sat
                            I leantreached for, and found her hand,
                            And held it for a moment, and
                            Took up the otherheld them both
                            As might a friend, I will take oath:
                            Spoke leisurely, as might a man
                            Praying for no thing other than
                            He thinks Heaven's justice:She was blind,
                            I said, and yet a noble mind
                            Most truly loved her; one whose fond
                            Clear-sighted vision looked beyond
                            The bounds of her infirmity,
                            And saw the woman, perfectly
                            
                            Modeled, and wrought out pure and true
                            And lovable. She quailed, and drew
                            Her hands away, but closer still
                            I caught them. "Rack me as you will!"
                            She cried out sharply"Call me 'blind'
                            Love ever isI am resigned!
                            Blind is your friend; as blind as he
                            Am Ibut blindest of the three
                            Yea, blind as deathyou will not see
                            My love for you is killing me!"
                        
                        
                            There is a memory that may
                            Not ever wholly fade away
                            From out my heart, so bright and fair
                            The light of it still glimmers there.
                            Why, it did seem as though my sight
                            Flamed back upon me, dazzling white
                            And godlike. Not one other word
                            Of hers I listened for or heard,
                            But I saw songs sung in her eyes
                            Till they did swoon up drowning-wise,
                            As my mad lips did strike her own,
                            And we flashed one, and one alone!
                            Ah! was it treachery for me
                            To kneel there, drinking eagerly
                            That torrent-flow of words that swept
                            Out laughingly the tears she wept?
                            Sweet words! O sweeter far, maybe,
                            Than light of day to those that see,
                            God knows, who did the rapture send
                            To me, and hold it from my friend.
                            
                            And we were married half a year
                            Ago.And he iswaiting here,
                            Heedless of thator anything,
                            But just that he is lingering
                            To say good-bye to her, and bow
                            As you may see him doing now,
                            For there's her footstep in the hall;
                            God bless her!help him!save us all!
                        
                    
                    
                        To Hear Her Sing
                        
                            TO hear her singto hear her sing
                            It is to hear the birds of Spring
                            In dewy groves on blooming sprays
                            Pour out their blithest roundelays.
                        
                        
                            It is to hear the robin trill
                            At morning, or the whippoorwill
                            At dusk, when stars are blossoming
                            To hear her singto hear her sing!
                        
                        
                            To hear her singit is to hear
                            The laugh of childhood ringing clear
                            In woody path or grassy lane
                            Our feet may never fare again.
                        
                        
                            Faint, far away as Memory dwells,
                            It is to hear the village bells
                            At twilight, as the truant hears
                            Them, hastening home, with smiles and tears.
                        
                        
                        
                            Such joy it is to hear her sing,
                            We fall in love with everything
                            The simple things of every day
                            Grow lovelier than words can say.
                        
                        
                            The idle brooks that purl across
                            The gleaming pebbles and the moss
                            We love no less than classic streams
                            The Rhines and Arnos of our dreams.
                        
                        
                            To hear her singwith folded eyes,
                            It is, beneath Venetian skies,
                            To hear the gondoliers' refrain,
                            Or troubadours of sunny Spain.
                        
                        
                            To hear the bulbul's voice that shook
                            The throat that trilled for Lalla Rookh:
                            What wonder we in homage bring
                            Our hearts to herto hear her sing!
                        
                    
                    
                        The Hereafter
                        
                            HEREAFTER! O we need not waste
                            Our smiles or tears, whate'er befall:
                            No happiness but holds a taste
                            Of something sweeter, after all;
                            No depth of agony but feels
                            Some fragment of abiding trust,
                            Whatever Death unlocks or seals,
                            The mute beyond is just.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        While the Musician Played
                        
                            O IT was but a dream I had
                            While the musician played!
                            And here the sky, and here the glad
                            Old ocean kissed the glade;
                            And here the laughing ripples ran,
                            And here the roses grew
                            That threw a kiss to every man
                            That voyaged with the crew.
                        
                        
                            Our silken sails in lazy folds
                            Drooped in the breathless breeze:
                            As o'er a field of marigolds
                            Our eyes swam o'er the seas;
                            While here the eddies lisped and purled
                            Around the island's rim,
                            And up from out the underworld
                            We saw the mermen swim.
                        
                        
                            And it was dawn and middle-day
                            And midnightfor the moon
                            On silver rounds across the bay
                            Had climbed the skies of June,
                            And there the glowing, glorious king
                            Of day ruled o'er his realm,
                            With stars of midnight glittering
                            About his diadem.
                        
                        
                            The sea-gull reeled on languid wing
                            In circles round the mast,
                            We heard the songs the sirens sing
                            As we went sailing past;
                            
                            And up atid down the golden sands
                            A thousand fairy throngs
                            Flung at us from their flashing hands
                            The echoes of their songs.
                        
                        
                            O it was but a dream I had
                            While the musician played!
                            For here the sky, and here the glad
                            Old ocean kissed the glade;
                            And here the laughing ripples ran,
                            And here the roses grew
                            That threw a kiss to every man
                            That voyaged with the crew.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Iron Horse
                        
                            NO song is mine of Arab steed
                            My courser is of nobler blood,
                            And cleaner limb and fleeter speed,
                            And greater strength and hardihood
                            Than ever cantered wild and free
                            Across the plains of Araby.
                        
                        
                            Go search the level desert-land
                            From Sana on to Samarcand
                            Wherever Persian prince has been
                            Or Dervish, Sheik or Bedouin,
                            And I defy you there to point
                            Me out a steed the half so fine
                            From tip of ear to pasterns-joint
                            As this old iron horse of mine.
                        
                        
                        
                            You do not know what beauty is
                            You do not know what gentleness
                            His answer is to ray caress!
                            Why, look upon this gait of his,
                            A touch upon his iron rein
                            He moves with such a stately grace
                            The sunlight on his burnished mane
                            Is barely shaken in its place;
                            And at a touch he changes pace,
                            And, gliding backward, stops again.
                        
                        
                            And talk of mettleAh! my friend,
                            Such passion smoulders in his breast
                            That when awakened it will send
                            A thrill of rapture wilder than
                            Ere palpitated heart of man
                            When flaming at its mightiest.
                            And there's a fierceness in his ire
                            A maddened majesty that leaps
                            Along his veins in blood of fire,
                            Until the path his vision sweeps
                            Spins out behind him like a thread
                            Unraveled from the reel of time,
                            As, wheeling on his course sublime,
                            The earth revolves beneath his tread.
                        
                        
                            Then stretch away, my gallant steed!
                            Thy mission is a noble one:
                            Thou bear'st the father to the son,
                            And sweet relief to bitter need;
                            Thou bear'st the stranger to his friends;
                            Thou bear'st the pilgrim to the shrine,
                        
                        
                        
                            And back again the prayer he sends
                            That God will prosper me and mine,
                            The star that on thy forehead gleams
                            Has blossomed in our brightest dreams.
                            Then speed thee on thy glorious race!
                            The mother waits thy ringing pace;
                            The father leans an anxious ear
                            The thunder of thy hooves to hear;
                            The lover listens, far away,
                            To catch thy keen exultant neigh;
                            And, where thy breathings roll and rise,
                            The husband strains his eager eyes,
                            And laugh of wife and baby-glee
                            Ring out to greet and welcome thee.
                            Then stretch away! and when at last
                            The master's hand shall gently check
                            Thy mighty speed, and hold thee fast,
                            The world will pat thee on the neck.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Plaint Human
                        
                            SEASON of snows, and season of flowers,
                            Seasons of loss and gain!
                            Since grief and joy must alike be ours,
                            Why do we still complain?
                        
                        
                            Ever our failing, from sun to sun,
                            O my intolerant brother:
                            We want just a little too little of one,
                            And much too much of the other.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Quarrel
                        
                            THEY faced each other: Topaz-brown
                            And lambent burnt her eyes and shot
                            Sharp flame at his of amethyst.
                            "I hate you! Go, and be forgot
                            As death forgets1" their glitter kissed
                            
                            (So seemed it) in their hatred. Ho!
                            Dared any mortal front her so?
                            Tempestuous eyebrows knitted down
                            Tense nostril, mouthno muscle slack,
                            And blackthe suffocating black
                            The stifling blackness of her frown!
                        
                        
                            Ah! but the lifted face of her!
                            And the twitched lip and tilted head!
                            Yet he did neither wince nor stir,
                            Onlyhis hands clenched; and, instead
                            Of words, he answered with a stare
                            That stammered not in aught it said,
                            As might his voice if trusted there.
                        
                        
                            And whatwhat spake his steady gaze?
                            Was there a look that harshly fell
                            To scoff her?or a syllable
                            Of anger?or the bitter phrase
                            That myrrhs the honey of love's lips,
                            Or curdles blood as poison-drips?
                            What made their breasts to heave and swell
                            As billows under bows of ships
                            In broken seas on stormy days?
                            We may not knownor they indeed
                            What mercy found them in their need.
                        
                        
                        
                            A sudden sunlight smote the gloom;
                            And round about them swept a breeze,
                            With faint breaths as of clover-bloom;
                            A bird was heard, through drone of bees,
                            Then, far and clear and eerily,
                            A child's voice from an orchard-tree
                            Then laughter, sweet as the perfume
                            Of lilacs, could the hearing see.
                            And heO Love! he fed thy name
                            On bruisd kisses, while her dim
                            Deep eyes, with all their inner flame,
                            Like drowning gems were turned on him.
                        
                    
                    
                        His Vigil
                        
                            CLOSE the book and dim the light,
                            I shall read no more to-night.
                            NoI am not sleepy, dear
                            Do not go: sit by me here
                            In the darkness and the deep
                            Silence of the watch I keep.
                            Something in your presence so
                            Soothes meas in long ago
                            I first felt your handas now
                            In the darkness touch my brow:
                            I've no other wish than you
                            Thus should fold mine eyelids to,
                            Saying naught of sigh or tear
                            Just as God were sitting here.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Tom Van Arden
                        
                            TOM VAN ARDEN, my old friend,
                            Our warm fellowship is one
                            Far too old to comprehend
                            Where its bond was first begun:
                            Mirage-like before my gaze
                            Gleams a land of other days,
                            Where two truant boys, astray,
                            Dream their lazy lives away.
                        
                        
                            There's a vision, in the guise
                            Of Midsummer, where the Past
                            Like a weary beggar lies
                            In the shadow Time has cast;
                            And as blends the bloom of trees
                            With the drowsy hum of bees,
                            Fragrant thoughts and murmurs blend,
                            Tom Van Arden, my old friend.
                        
                        
                            Tom Van Arden, my old friend,
                            All the pleasures we have known
                            Thrill me now as I extend
                            This old hand and grasp your own
                            Feeling, in the rude caress,
                            All affection's tenderness;
                            Feeling, though the touch be rough,
                            Our old souls are soft enough.
                        
                        
                            So we'll make a mellow hour:
                            Fill your pipe, and taste the wine
                            Warp your face, if it be sour,
                            I can spare a smile from mine;
                            
                            If it sharpen up your wit,
                            Let me feel the edge of it
                            I have eager ears to lend,
                            Tom Van Arden, my old friend.
                        
                        
                            Tom Van Arden, my old friend,
                            Are we "lucky dogs," indeed?
                            Are we all that we pretend
                            In the jolly life we lead?
                            Bachelors, we must confess,
                            Boast of "single blessedness"
                            To the world, but not alone
                            Man's best sorrow is his own!
                        
                        
                            And the saddest truth is this,
                            Life to us has never proved
                            What we tasted in the kiss
                            Of the women we have loved:
                            Vainly we congratulate
                            Our escape from such a fate
                            As their lying lips could send,
                            Tom Van Arden, my old friend!
                        
                        
                            Tom Van Arden, my old friend,
                            Hearts, like fruit upon the stem,
                            Ripen sweetest, I contend,
                            As the frost falls over them:
                            Your regard for me to-day
                            Makes November taste of May,
                            And through every vein of rhyme
                            Pours the blood of summer-time.
                        
                        
                        
                            When our souls are cramped with youth
                            Happiness seems far away
                            In the future, while, in truth,
                            We look back on it to-day
                            Through our tears, nor dare to boast,
                            "Better to have loved and lost!"
                            Broken hearts are hard to mend,
                            Tom Van Arden, my old friend.
                        
                        
                            Tom Van Arden, my old friend,
                            I grow prosy, and you tire;
                            Fill the glasses while I bend
                            To prod up the failing fire . . .
                            You are restless:I presume
                            There's a dampness in the room.
                            Much of warmth our nature begs,
                            With rheumatics in our legs!. . .
                        
                        
                            Humph! the legs we used to fling
                            Limber-jointed in the dance,
                            When we heard the fiddle ring
                            Up the curtain of Romance,
                            And in crowded public halls
                            Played with hearts like jugglers' balls.
                            
                                Feats of mountebanks, depend!
                            
                            Tom Van Arden, my old friend.
                        
                        
                            Tom Van Arden, my old friend,
                            Pardon, then, this theme of mine:
                            While the firelight leaps to lend
                            Higher color to the wine,
                            
                            I propose a health to those
                            Who have homes, and home's repose,
                            Wife- and child-love without end!
                            . . . Tom Van Arden, my old friend.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Blossoms on the Trees
                        
                            BLOSSOMS crimson, white, or blue,
                            Purple, pink, and every hue,
                            From sunny skies, to tintings drowned
                            In dusky drops of dew,
                            I praise you all, wherever found,
                            And love you through and through;
                            
                                But, Blossoms On The Trees,
                            With your breath upon the breeze,
                            There's nothing all the world around
                            As half as sweet as you!
                        
                        
                            Could the rhymer only wring
                            All the sweetness to the lees
                            Of all the kisses clustering
                            In juicy Used-to-bes,
                            To dip his rhymes therein and sing
                            The blossoms on the trees,
                            "O Blossoms on the Trees,"
                            He would twitter, trill, and coo,
                            "However sweet, such songs as these
                            Are not as sweet as you:
                            For you are blooming melodies
                            The eyes may listen to!"
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Her Beautiful Eyes
                        
                            OHER beautiful eyes! they are as blue as the dew
                            On the violet's bloom when the morning is new,
                            And the light of their love is the gleam of the sun
                            O'er the meadows of Spring where the quick shadows run:
                            As the morn shifts the mists and the clouds from the skies
                            So I stand in the dawn of her beautiful eyes.
                        
                        
                            And her beautiful eyes are as mid-day to me,
                            When the lily-bell bends with the weight of the bee,
                            And the throat of the thrush is a-pulse in the heat,
                            And the senses are drugged with the subtle and sweet
                            And delirious breaths of the air's lullabies
                            So I swoon in the noon of her beautiful eyes.
                        
                        
                            O her beautiful eyes! they have smitten mine own
                            As a glory glanced down from the glare of The Throne;
                            And I reel, and I falter and fall, as afar
                            Fell the shepherds that looked on the mystical Star,
                            And yet dazed in the tidings that bade them arise
                            So I grope through the night of her beautiful eyes.
                        
                    
                    
                        Home at Night
                        
                            WHEN chirping crickets fainter cry,
                            And pale stars blossom in the sky,
                            And twilight's gloom has dimmed the bloom
                            And blurred the butterfly:
                        
                        
                            When locust-blossoms fleck the walk,
                            And up the tiger-lily stalk
                            The glow-worm crawls and clings and falls
                            And glimmers down the garden-walls:
                        
                        
                        
                            When buzzing things, with double wings
                            Of crisp and raspish flutterings,
                            Go whizzing by so very nigh
                            One thinks of fangs and stings:
                        
                        
                            O then, within, is stilled the din
                            Of crib she rocks the baby in,
                            And heart and gate and latch's weight
                            Are liftedand the lips of Kate.
                        
                    
                    
                        Just to be Good
                        
                            JUST to be good
                            This is enoughenough!
                            O we who find sin's billows wild and rough,
                            Do we not feel how more than any gold
                            Would be the blameless life we led of old
                            While yet our lips knew but a mother's kiss?
                            Ah! though we miss
                            All else but this,
                            To be good is enough!
                        
                        
                            It is enough
                            Enoughjust to be good!
                            To lift our hearts where they are understood;
                            To let the thirst for worldly power and place
                            Go unappeased; to smile back in God's face
                            With the glad lips our mothers used to kiss.
                            Ah! though we miss
                            All else but this,
                            To be good is enough!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Autumn
                        
                            As harvester, at dusk,
                            Faring down some woody trail
                            Leading homeward through the musk
                            Of May-apple and pawpaw,
                            Hazel-bush, and spice and haw,
                            So comes Autumn, swart and hale,
                            Drooped of frame and slow of stride,
                            But withal an air of pride
                            Looming up in stature far
                            Higher than his shoulders are;
                            Weary both in arm and limb,
                            Yet the wholesome heart of him
                            Sheer at rest and satisfied.
                        
                        
                            Greet him as with glee of drums
                            And glad cymbals, as he comes!
                            Robe him fair, O Rain and Shine!
                            He the Emperorthe King
                            Royal lord of everything
                            Sagging Plenty's granary floors
                            And out-bulging all her doors;
                            He the god of corn and wine,
                            Honey, milk, and fruit and oil
                            Lord of feast, as lord of toil
                            Jocund host of yours and mine!
                        
                        
                            Ho! the revel of his laugh!
                            Half is sound of winds, and half
                            Roar of ruddy blazes drawn
                            Up the throats of chimneys wide,
                            Circling which, from side to side,
                            
                            Faces-lit as by the Dawn,
                            With her highest tintings on
                            Tip of nose, and cheek, and chin
                            Smile at some old fairy-tale
                            Of enchanted lovers, in
                            Silken gown and coat of mail,
                            With a retinue of elves
                            Merry as their very selves,
                            Trooping ever, hand in hand,
                            Down the dales of Wonderland.
                        
                        
                            Then the glory of his song!
                            Lifting up his dreamy eyes
                            Singing haze across the skies;
                            Singing clouds that trail along
                            Towering tops of trees that seize
                            Tufts of them to stanch the breeze;
                            Singing slanted strands of rain
                            In between the sky and earth,
                            For the lyre to mate the mirth
                            And the might of his refrain:
                            Singing southward-flying birds
                            Down to us, and afterwards
                            Singing them to flight again:
                            Singing blushes to the cheeks
                            Of the leaves upon the trees
                            Singing on and changing these
                            Into pallor, slowly wrought,
                            Till the little, moaning creeks
                            Bear them to their last farewell,
                            As Elaine, the lovable,
                            
                            Was borne down to Lancelot.
                            Singing drip of tears, and then
                            Drying them with smiles again.
                        
                        
                            Singing apple, peach and grape,
                            Into roundest, plumpest shape;
                            Rosy ripeness to the face
                            Of the pippin; and the grace
                            Of the dainty stamin-tip
                            To the huge bulk of the pear,
                            Pendant in the green caress
                            Of the leaves, and glowing through
                            With the tawny laziness
                            Of the gold that Ophir knew,
                            Haply, too, within its rind
                            Such a cleft as bees may find,
                            Bungling on it half aware,
                            And wherein to see them sip,
                            Fancy lifts an oozy lip,
                            And the singer's falter there.
                        
                        
                            Sweet as swallows swimming through
                            Eddyings of dusk and dew,
                            Singing happy scenes of home
                            Back to sight of eager eyes
                            That have longed for them to come,
                            Till their coming is surprise
                            Uttered only by the rush
                            Of quick tears and prayerful hush:
                            Singing on, in clearer key,
                            Hearty palms of you and me
                            Into grasps that tingle still
                            Rapturous, and ever will!
                            
                            Singing twank and twang of strings
                            Trill of flute and clarinet
                            In a melody that rings
                            Like the tunes we used to play,
                            And our dreams are playing yet!
                            Singing lovers, long astray,
                            Each to each; and, sweeter things,
                            Singing in their marriage-day,
                            And a banquet holding all
                            These delights for festival.
                        
                    
                    
                        Bedouin
                        
                            O LOVE is like an untamed steed!
                            So hot of heart and wild of speed,
                            And with fierce freedom so in love,
                            The desert is not vast enough,
                            With all its leagues of glimmering sands,
                            To pasture it! Ah, that my hands
                            Were more than human in their strength,
                            That my deft lariat at length
                            Might safely noose this splendid thing
                            That so defies all conquering!
                            Ho! but to see it whirl and reel
                            The sands spurt forwardand to feel
                            The quivering tension of the thong
                            That throned me high, with shriek and song!
                            To grapple tufts of tossing mane
                            To spurn it to its feet again,
                            And then, sans saddle, rein or bit,
                            To lash the mad life out of it!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Let Us Forget
                        
                            LET us forget. What matters it that we
                            Once reigned o'er happy realms of long ago,
                            And talked of love, and let our voices low,
                            And ruled for some brief sessions royally?
                            What if we sung, or laughed, or wept maybe?
                            It has availed not anything, and so
                            Let it go by that we may better know
                            How poor a thing is lost to you and me.
                            But yesterday I kissed your lips, and yet
                            Did thrill you not enough to shake the dew
                            From your drenched lidsand missed, with no regret,
                            Your kiss shot back, with sharp breaths failing you:
                            And so, to-day, while our worn eyes are wet
                            With all this waste of tears, let us forget!
                        
                    
                    
                        Sleep
                        
                            ORPHANED, I cry to thee:
                            Sweet Sleep! O kneel and be
                            A mother unto me!
                            Calm thou my childish fears:
                            Foldfold mine eyelids to, all tenderly,
                            And dry my tears.
                        
                        
                            Come, Sleep, all drowsy-eyed
                            And faint with languor,slide
                            Thy dim face down beside
                            Mine own, and let me rest
                            And nestle in thy heart, and there abide,
                            A favored guest.
                        
                        
                        
                            Good night to every care,
                            And shadow of despair!
                            Good night to all things where
                            Within is no delight!
                            Sleep opens her dark arms, and, swooning there,
                            I sob: Good nightgood night!
                        
                    
                    
                        When Age Comes On
                        
                            WHEN Age comes on!
                            The deepening dusk is where the dawn
                            Once glittered splendid, and the dew,
                            In honey-drips from red rose-lips,
                            Was kissed away by me and you.
                            And now across the frosty lawn
                            Black footprints trail, and Age comes on
                            And Age comes on!
                            And biting wild-winds whistle through
                            Our tattered hopesand Age comes on!
                        
                        
                            When Age comes on!
                            O tide of raptures, long withdrawn,
                            Flow back in summer floods, and fling
                            Here at our feet our childhood sweet,
                            And all the songs we used to sing!. . .
                            Old loves, old friendsall dead and gone
                            Our old faith lostand Age comes on
                            And Age comes on!
                            Poor hearts! have we not anything
                            But longings! left when Age comes on?
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Dan Paine
                        
                            OLD friend of mine, whose chiming name
                            Has been the burthen of a rhyme
                            Within my heart since first I came
                            To know thee in thy mellow prime:
                            With warm emotions in my breast
                            That can but coldly be expressed,
                            And hopes and wishes wild and vain,
                            I reach my hand to thee, Dan Paine.
                        
                        
                            In fancy, as I sit alone
                            In gloomy fellowship with care,
                            I hear again thy cheery tone,
                            And wheel for thee an easy-chair;
                            And from my hand the pencil falls
                            My book upon the carpet sprawls,
                            As eager soul and heart and brain
                            Leap up to welcome thee, Dan Paine.
                        
                        
                            A something gentle in thy mien,
                            A something tender in thy voice,
                            Has made my trouble so serene,
                            I can but weep, from very choice.
                            And even then my tears, I guess,
                            Hold more of sweet than bitterness,
                            And more of gleaming shine than rain,
                            Because of thy bright smile, Dan Paine.
                        
                        
                            The wrinkles that the years have spun
                            And tangled round thy tawny face,
                            Are kinked with laughter, every one,
                            And fashioned in a mirthful grace.
                            
                            And though the twinkle of thine eyes
                            Is keen as frost when Summer dies,
                            It can not long as frost remain
                            While thy warm soul shines out, Dan Paine.
                        
                        
                            And so I drain a health to thee:
                            May merry Joy and jolly Mirth
                            Like children clamber on thy knee,
                            And ride thee round the happy earth!
                            And when, at last, the hand of Fate
                            Shall lift the latch of Canaan's gate,
                            And usher me in thy domain,
                            Smile on me just as now, Dan Paine.
                        
                    
                    
                        Their Sweet Sorrow
                        
                            THEY meet to say farewell: Their way
                            Of saying this is hard to say.
                            He holds her hand an instant, wholly
                            Distressedand she unclasps it slowly.
                        
                        
                            He bends his gaze evasively
                            Over the printed page that she
                            Recurs to, with a new-moon shoulder
                            Glimpsed from the lace-mists that enfold her.
                        
                        
                            The clock, beneath its crystal cup,
                            Discreetly clicks"Quick! Act! Speak up!"
                            
                            A tension circles both her slender
                            Wristsand her raised eyes flash in splendor,
                        
                        
                        
                            Even as he feels his dazzled own.
                            Then, blindingly, round either thrown,
                            They feel a stress of arms that ever
                            Strain tremblingly and"Never!
                                Never!"
                            
                        
                        
                            Is whispered brokenly, with half
                            A sob, like a belated laugh,
                            While cloyingly their blurred kiss closes,
                            Sweet as the dew's lip to the rose's.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Old Retired Sea-Captain
                        
                            THE old sea-captain has sailed the seas
                            So long, that the waves at mirth,
                            Or the waves gone wild, and the crests of these,
                            Were as near playmates from birth:
                            He has loved both the storm and the calm, because
                            They seemed as his brothers twain,
                            The flapping sail was his soul's applause,
                            And his rapture, the roaring main.
                        
                        
                            But nowlike a battered hulk seems he,
                            Cast high on a foreign strand,
                            Though he feels "in port," as it need must be,
                            And the stay of a daughter's hand
                            Yet ever the round of the listless hours,
                            His pipe, in the languid air
                            The grass, the trees, and the garden flowers,
                            And the strange earth everywhere!
                        
                        
                        
                            And so betimes he is restless here
                            In this little inland town,
                            With never a wing in the atmosphere
                            But the wind-mill's, up and down;
                            His daughter's home in this peaceful vale,
                            And his grandchild 'twixt his knees
                            But never the hail of a passing sail,
                            Nor the surge of the angry seas!
                        
                        
                            He quits his pipe, and he snaps its neck
                            Would speak, though he coughs instead,
                            Then paces the porch like a quarter-deck
                            With a reeling mast o'erhead!
                            Ho! the old sea-captain's cheeks glow warm,
                            And his eyes gleam grim and weird,
                            As he mutters about, like a thunder-storm,
                            In the cloud of his beetling beard.
                        
                    
                    
                        August
                        
                            ADAY of torpor in the sullen heat
                            Of Summer's passion: In the sluggish stream
                            The panting cattle lave their lazy feet,
                            With drowsy eyes, and dream.
                        
                        
                            Long since the winds have died, and in the sky
                            There lives no cloud to hint of Nature's grief;
                            The sun glares ever like an evil eye,
                            And withers flower and leaf.
                        
                        
                        
                            Upon the gleaming harvest-field remote
                            The thresher lies deserted, like some old
                            Dismantled galleon that hangs afloat
                            Upon a sea of gold.
                        
                        
                            The yearning cry of some bewildered bird
                            Above an empty nest, and truant boys
                            Along the river's shady margin heard
                            A harmony of noise
                        
                        
                            A melody of wrangling voices blent
                            With liquid laughter, and with rippling calls
                            Of piping lips and trilling echoes sent
                            To mimic waterfalls.
                        
                        
                            And through the hazy veil the atmosphere
                            Has draped about the gleaming face of Day,
                            The sifted glances of the sun appear
                            In splinterings of spray.
                        
                        
                            The dusty highway, like a cloud of dawn,
                            Trails o'er the hillside, and the passer-by,
                            A tired ghost in misty shroud, toils on
                            His journey to the sky.
                        
                        
                            And down across the valley's drooping sweep,
                            Withdrawn to farthest limit of the glade,
                            The forest stands in silence, drinking deep
                            Its purple wine of shade.
                        
                        
                        
                            The gossamer floats up on phantom wing;
                            The sailor-vision voyages the skies
                            And carries into chaos everything
                            That freights the weary eyes:
                        
                        
                            Till, throbbing on and on, the pulse of heat
                            Increasesreachespasses fever's height,
                            And Day sinks into slumber, cool and sweet,
                            Within the arms of Night.
                        
                    
                    
                        Go, Winter!
                        
                            GO, Winter! Go thy ways! We want again
                            The twitter of the bluebird and the wren;
                            Leaves ever greener growing, and the shine
                            Of Summer's sunnot thine.
                        
                        
                            Thy sun, which mocks our need of warmth and love
                            And all the heartening fervencies thereof,
                            It scarce bath heat enow to warm our thin
                            Pathetic yearnings in.
                        
                        
                            So get thee from us! We are cold, God wot,
                            Even as thou art.We remember not
                            How blithe we hailed thy coming.That was O
                            Too longtoo long ago!
                        
                        
                            Get from us utterly! Ho! Summer then
                            Shall spread her grasses where thy snows have been,
                            And thy last icy footprint melt and mold
                            In her first marigold.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Donn Piatt of Mac-o-Chee
                        
                            I
                            DONN Piattof Mac-o-chee,
                            Not the one of History,
                            Who, with flaming tongue and pen,
                            Scathes the vanities of men;
                            Not the one whose biting wit
                            Cuts pretense and etches it
                            On the brazen brow that dares
                            Filch the laurel that it wears:
                            Not the Donn Piatt whose praise
                            Echoes in the noisy ways
                            Of the faction, onward led
                            By the statesman!But, instead,
                            Give the simple man to me,
                            Donn Piatt of Mac-o-thee!
                        
                        
                            II
                            Donn Piatt of Mac-o-chee!
                            Branches of the old oak-tree,
                            Drape him royally in fine
                            Purple shade and golden shine!
                            Emerald plush of sloping lawn
                            Be the throne he sits upon!
                            And, O Summer Sunset, thou
                            Be his crown, and gild a brow
                            Softly smoothed and soothed and calmed
                            By the breezes, mellow-palmed
                            As Erata's white hand agleam
                            On the forehead of a dream.
                            So forever rule o'er me,
                            Donn Piatt of Mac-o-chee!
                        
                        
                        
                            III
                            Donn Piatt of Mac-o-chee:
                            Through a lined memory
                            Plays the wayward little creek
                            Round thy home at hide-and-seek
                            As I see and hear it, still
                            Romping round the wooded hill,
                            Till its laugh-and-babble blends
                            With the silence while it sends
                            Glances back to kiss the sight,
                            In its babyish delight,
                            Ere it strays amid the gloom
                            Of the glens that burst in bloom
                            Of the rarest rhyme for thee,
                            Donn Piatt of Mac-o-chee!
                        
                        
                            IV
                            Donn Piatt of Mac-o-chee!
                            What a darling destiny
                            Has been mineto meet him there
                            Lolling in an easy-chair
                            On the terrace, while he told
                            Reminiscences of old
                            Letting my cigar die out,
                            Hearing poems talked about;
                            And entranced to hear him say
                            Gentle things of Thackeray,
                            Dickens, Hawthorne, and the rest,
                            Known to him as host and guest
                            Known to him as he to me
                            Donn Piatt of Mac-o-chee!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Longfellow
                        
                            THE winds have talked with him confidingly;
                            The trees have whispered to him; and the night
                            Hath held him gently as a mother might,
                            And taught him all sad tones of melody:
                            The mountains have bowed to him; and the sea,
                            In clamorous waves, and murmurs exquisite,
                            Hath told him all her sorrow and delight
                            Her legends fairher darkest mystery.
                            His verse blooms like a flower, night and day;
                            Bees cluster round his rhymes; and twitterings
                            Of lark and swallow, in an endless May,
                            Are mingling with the tender songs he sings.
                            Nor shall he cease to singin every lay
                            Of Nature's voice he singsand will alway.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Quiet Lodger
                        
                            THE man that rooms next door to me:
                            Two weeks ago, this very night,
                            He took possession quietly,
                            As any other lodger might
                            But why the room next mine should so
                            Attract him I was vexed to know,
                            Because his quietude, in fine,
                            Was far superior to mine.
                        
                        
                            "Now, I like quiet, truth to tell,
                            A tranquil life is sweet to me
                            But this," I sneered, "suits me too well.
                            He shuts his door so noiselessly,
                            
                            And glides about so very mute,
                            In each mysterious pursuit,
                            His silence is oppressive, and
                            Too deep for use to understand."
                        
                        
                            Sometimes, forgetting book or pen,
                            I've found my head in breathless poise
                            Lifted, and dropped in shame again,
                            Hearing some alien ghost of noise
                            Some smothered sound that seemed to be
                            A trunk-lid dropped unguardedly,
                            Or the crisp writhings of some quire
                            Of manuscript thrust in the fire.
                        
                        
                            Then I have climbed, and closed in vain
                            My transom, opening in the hall;
                            Or close against the window-pane
                            Have pressed my fevered face,but all
                            The day or night without held not
                            A sight or sound or counter-thought
                            To set my mind one instant free
                            Of this man's silent mastery.
                        
                        
                            And often I have paced the floor
                            With muttering anger, far at night,
                            Hearing, and cursing, o'er and o'er,
                            The muffled noises, and the light
                            And tireless movements of this guest
                            Whose silence raged above my rest
                            Hoarser than howling storms at sea
                            The man that rooms nest door to me.
                        
                        
                        
                            But twice or thrice, upon the stair,
                            I've seen his facemost strangely wan,
                            Each time upon me unaware
                            He camesmooth'd past me, and was gone.
                            So like a whisper he went by,
                            I listened after, ear and eye,
                            Nor could my chafing fancy tell
                            The meaning of one syllable.
                        
                        
                            Last night I caught him, face to face,
                            He entering his room, and I
                            Glaring from mine: He paused a space
                            And met my scowl all shrinkingly
                            But with full gentleness: The key
                            Turned in his doorand I could see
                            It tremblingly withdrawn and put
                            Inside, and thenthe door was shut.
                        
                        
                            Then silence. Silence!why, last night
                            The silence was tumultuous,
                            And thundered on till broad daylight;
                            O never has it stunned me thus!
                            It rolls, and moans, and mumbles yet.
                            Ah, God! how loud may silence get
                            When man mocks at a brother man
                            Who answers but as silence can!
                        
                        
                            The silence grew, and grew, and grew,
                            Till at high noon to-day 'twas heard
                            Throughout the house; and men flocked through
                            The echoing halls, with faces blurred
                            
                            With pallor, gloom, and fear, and awe,
                            And shuddering at what they saw,
                            The quiet lodger, as he lay
                            Stark of the life he cast away.
                        
                        
                            So strange to-nightthose voices there,
                            Where all so quiet was before:
                            They say the face has not a care
                            Nor sorrow in it any more. . .
                            His latest scrawl:"Forgive meYou
                            Who prayed, 'They know not what they do!'"
                            My tears will never let me see
                            This man that rooms next door to me!
                        
                    
                    
                        The Rival
                        
                            I SO loved once, when Death came by I hid
                            Away my face,
                            And all my sweetheart's tresses she undid
                            To make my hiding-place.
                        
                        
                            The dread shade passed me thus unheeding; and
                            I turned me then
                            To calm my lovekiss down her shielding hand
                            And comfort her again.
                        
                        
                            And lo! she answered not: And she did sit
                            All fixedly,
                            With her fair face and the sweet smile of it,
                            In love with Death, not me.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        A Monument for the Soldiers
                        
                            A MONUMENT for the Soldiers!
                            And what will ye build it of?
                            Can ye build it of marble, or brass, or bronze,
                            Outlasting the Soldiers' love?
                            Can ye glorify it with legends
                            As grand as their blood bath writ
                            From the inmost shrine of this land of thine
                            To the outermost verge of it?
                        
                        
                            And the answer came: We would build it
                            Out of our hopes made sure,
                            And out of our purest prayers and tears,
                            And out of our faith secure:
                            We would build it out of the great white truths
                            Their death bath sanctified,
                            And the sculptured forms of the men in arms,
                            And their faces ere they died.
                        
                        
                            And what heroic figures
                            Can the sculptor carve in stone?
                            Can the marble breast be made to bleed,
                            And the marble lips to moan?
                            Can the marble brow be fevered?
                            And the marble eyes be graved
                            To look their last, as the flag floats past,
                            On the country they have saved?
                        
                        
                            And the answer came: The figures
                            Shall all be fair and brave,
                            And, as befitting, as pure and white
                            As the stars above their grave!
                            
                            The marble lips, and breast and brow
                            Whereon the laurel lies,
                            Bequeath us right to guard the flight
                            Of the old flag in the skies!
                        
                        
                            A monument for the Soldiers!
                            Built of a people's love,
                            And blazoned and decked and panoplied
                            With the hearts ye build it of!
                            And see that ye build it stately,
                            In pillar and niche and gate,
                            And high in pose as the souls of those
                            It would commemorate!
                        
                    
                    
                        The Watches of the Night
                        
                            O THE waiting in the watches of the night!
                            In the darkness, desolation, and contrition and affright;
                            The awful hush that holds us shut away from all delight:.
                            The ever-weary memory that ever weary goes
                            Recounting ever over every aching loss it knows
                            The ever-weary eyelids gasping ever for repose
                            In the dreary, weary watches of the night!
                        
                        
                            Darkstifling darkthe watches of the night!
                            With tingling nerves at tension, how the blackness flashes white
                            With spectral visitations smitten past the inner sight!
                            
                            What shuddering sense of wrongs we've wrought that may not be
                                redressed
                            Of tears we did not brush awayof lips we left un-pressed,
                            And hands that we let fall, with all their loyalty un-guessed!
                            Ah! the empty, empty watches of the night!
                        
                        
                            What solace in the watches of the night?
                            What frailest staff of hope to staywhat faintest shaft of light?
                            Do we dream, and dare believe it, that by never weight of right
                            Of our own poor weak deservings, we shall win the dawn at last
                            Our famished souls find freedom from this penance for the past,
                            In a faith that leaps and lightens from the gloom that flees aghast
                            Shall we survive the watches of the night?
                        
                        
                            ONE leads us through the watches of the night
                            By the ceaseless intercession of our loved ones lost to sight
                            He is with us through all trials, in His mercy and His might;
                            With our mothers there about Him, all our sorrow disappears,
                            Till the silence of our sobbing is the prayer the Master hears,
                            And His hand is laid upon us with the tenderness of tears
                            In the waning of the watches of the night.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        My Friend
                        
                            "HE is my friend," I said,
                            "Be patient!" Overhead
                            The skies were drear and dim;
                            And lo! the thought of him Smiled on my heartand then
                            The sun shone out again!
                        
                        
                            "He is my friend!" The words
                            Brought summer and the birds;
                            And all my winter-time
                            Thawed into running rhyme
                            And rippled into song,
                            Warm, tender, brave, and strong.
                        
                        
                            And so it sings to-day.
                            So may it sing alway! Though waving grasses row
                            Between, and lilies blow
                            Their trills of perfume clear
                            As laughter to the ear,
                            Let each mute measure end
                            With "Still he is thy friend."
                        
                    
                    
                        The Passing of a Heart
                        
                            O TOUCH me with your hands
                            For pity's sake!
                            My brow throbs ever on with such an ache
                            As only your cool touch may take away;
                            And so, I pray
                            You, touch me with your hands!
                        
                        
                        
                            Touchtouch me with your hands.
                            Smooth back the hair
                            You once caressed, and kissed, and called so fair
                            That I did dream its gold would wear alway,
                            And lo, to-day
                            O touch me with your hands!
                            Just touch me with your hands,
                            And let them press
                            My weary eyelids with the old caress,
                            And lull me till I sleep. Then go your way,
                            That Death may say:
                            He touched her with his hands.
                        
                    
                    
                        We to Sigh Instead of Sing
                        
                            "R AIN and rain! and rain and rain!"
                            Yesterday we muttered
                            Grimly as the grim refrain
                            That the thunders uttered:
                            All the heavens under cloud
                            All the sunshine sleeping;
                            All the grasses limply bowed
                            With their weight of weeping.
                        
                        
                            Sigh and sigh! and sigh and sigh!
                            Never end of sighing;
                            Rain and rain for our reply
                            Hopes half-drowned and dying;
                            
                            Peering through the window-pane,
                            Naught but endless raining
                            Endless sighing, and, as vain,
                            Endlessly complaining.
                        
                        
                            Shine and shine! and shine and shine!
                            Ah! to-day the splendor!
                            All this glory yours and mine
                            God! but God is tender!
                            We to sigh instead of sing,
                            Yesterday, in sorrow,
                            While the Lord was fashioning
                            This for our To-morrow!
                        
                    
                    
                        Suspense
                        
                            A WOMAN'S figure, on a ground of night
                            Inlaid with sallow stars that dimly stare
                            Down in the lonesome eyes, uplifted there
                            As in vague hope some alien lance of light
                            Might pierce their woe. The tears that blind her sight
                            The salt and bitter blood of her despair
                            Her hands toss back through torrents of her hair
                            And grip toward God with anguish infinite.
                            And O the carven mouth, with all its great
                            Intensity of longing frozen fast
                            In such a smile as well may designate
                            The slowly murdered heart, that, to the last,
                            Conceals each newer wound, and back at Fate
                            Throbs Love's eternal lie"Lo, I can wait!"
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        John McKeen
                        
                            JOHN Mc KEEN, in his rusty dress,
                            His loosened collar, and swarthy throat,
                            His face unshaven, and none the less,
                            His hearty laugh and his wholesomeness,
                            And the wealth of a workman's vote!
                        
                        
                            Bring him, O Memory, here once more,
                            And tilt him back in his Windsor chair
                            By the kitchen stove, when the day is o'er
                            And the light of the hearth is across the floor,
                            And the crickets everywhere!
                        
                        
                            And let their voices be gladly blent
                            With a watery jingle of pans and spoons,
                            And a motherly chirrup of sweet content,
                            And neighborly gossip and merriment,
                            And old-time fiddle-tunes!
                        
                        
                            Tick the clock with a wooden sound,
                            And fill the hearing with childish glee
                            Of rhyming riddle, or story found
                            In the Robinson Crusoe, leather-bound
                            Old book of the Used-to-be!
                        
                        
                            John McKeen of the Past! Ah, John,
                            To have grown ambitious in worldly ways!
                            To have rolled your shirt-sleeves down, to don
                            A broadcloth suit, and, forgetful, gone
                            Out on election days!
                        
                        
                            John, ah, John! did it prove your worth
                            To yield you the office you still maintain?
                            
                            To fill your pockets, but leave the dearth
                            Of all the happier things on earth
                            To the hunger of heart and brain?
                        
                        
                            Under the dusk of your villa trees,
                            Edging the drives where your blooded span
                            Paw the pebbles and wait your ease,
                            Where are the children about your knees,
                            And the mirth, and the happy man?
                        
                        
                            The blinds of your mansion are battened to;
                            Your faded wife is a close recluse;
                            And your "finished" daughters will doubtless do
                            Dutifully all that is willed of you,
                            And marry as you shall choose!
                        
                        
                            But O for the old-home voices, blent
                            With the watery jingle of pans and spoons,
                            And the motherly chirrup of glad content,
                            And neighborly gossip and merriment,
                            And the old-time fiddle-tunes!
                        
                    
                    
                        At Utter Loaf
                        
                            AN afternoon as ripe with heat
                            As might the golden pippin be
                            With mellowness if at my feet
                            It dropped now from the apple-tree
                            My hammock swings in lazily.
                        
                        
                        
                            The boughs about me spread a shade
                            That shields me from the sun, but weaves
                            With breezy shuttles through the leaves
                            Blue rifts of skies, to gleam and fade
                            Upon the eyes that only see
                            Just of themselves, all drowsily.
                        
                        
                            Above me drifts the fallen skein
                            Of some tired spider, looped and blown,
                            As fragile as a strand of rain,
                            Across the air, and upward thrown
                            By breaths of hay-fields newly mown
                            So glimmering it is and fine,
                            I doubt these drowsy eyes of mine.
                        
                        
                            Far-off and faint as voices pent
                            In mines, and heard from underground,
                            Come murmurs as of discontent,
                            And clamorings of sullen sound
                            The city sends me, as, I guess,
                            To vex me, though they do but bless
                            Me in my drowsy fastnesses.
                        
                        
                            I have no care. I only know
                            My hammock hides and holds me here
                            In lands of shade a prisoner:
                            While lazily the breezes blow
                            Light leaves of sunshine over me,
                            And back and forth and to and fro
                            I swing, enwrapped in some hushed glee,
                            Smiling at all things drowsily.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        September Dark
                        
                            THE air falls chill;
                            The whippoonvill
                            Pipes lonesomely behind the hill:
                            The dusk grows dense,
                            The silence tense;
                            And lo, the katydids commence.
                        
                        
                            Through shadowy rifts
                            Of woodland, lifts
                            The low, slow moon, and upward drifts,
                            While left and right
                            The fireflies' light
                            Swirls eddying in the skirts of Night.
                        
                        
                            O Cloudland, gray
                            And level, lay
                            Thy mists across the face of Day!
                            At foot and head,
                            Above the dead,
                            O Dews, weep on uncomforted!
                        
                    
                    
                        A Glimpse of Pan
                        
                            I CAUGHT but a glimpse of him. Summer was here,
                            I And 1 strayed from the town and its dust and heat,
                            And walked in a wood, while the noon was near,
                            Where the shadows were cool, and the atmosphere
                            Was misty with fragrances stirred by my feet
                            From surges of blossoms that billowed sheer
                            O'er the grasses, green and sweet.
                        
                        
                        
                            And I peered through a vista of leaning trees,
                            Tressed with long tangles of vines that swept
                            To the face of a river, that answered these
                            With vines in the wave like the vines in the breeze,
                            Till the yearning lips of the ripples crept
                            And kissed them, with quavering ecstasies,
                            And wistfully laughed and wept.
                        
                        
                            And there, like a dream in a swoon, I swear
                            I saw Pan lying,his limbs in the dew
                            And the shade, and his face in the dazzle and glare
                            Of the glad sunshine; while everywhere,
                            Over, across, and around him blew
                            Filmy dragon-flies hither and there,
                            And little white butterflies, two and two,
                            In eddies of odorous air.
                        
                    
                    
                        A Southern Singer
                        Written in Madison Cawein's "Lyrics and Idyls."
                        
                            HEREIN are blown from out the South
                            Songs blithe as those of Pan's pursed mouth
                            As sweet in voice as, in perfume,
                            The night-breath 'of magnolia-bloom.
                        
                        
                            Such sumptuous languor lures the sense
                            Such luxury of indolence
                            The eyes blur as a nymph's might blur,
                            With water-lilies watching her.
                        
                        
                        
                            You waken, thrilling at the trill
                            Of some wild bird that seems to spill
                            The silence full of winey drips
                            Of song that Fancy sips and sips.
                        
                        
                            Betimes, in brambled lanes wherethrough
                            The chipmunk stripes himself from view,
                            You pause to lop a creamy spray
                            Of elder-blossoms by the way.
                        
                        
                            Or where the morning dew is yet
                            Gray on the topmost rail, you set
                            A sudden palm and, vaulting, meet
                            Your vaulting shadow in the wheat.
                        
                        
                            On lordly swards, of suave incline,
                            Entessellate with shade and shine;
                            You shall misdoubt your lowly birth,
                            Clad on as one of princely worth:
                        
                        
                            The falcon on your wrist shall ride
                            Your milk-white Arab side by side
                            With one of raven-black.You fain
                            Would kiss the hand that holds the rein.
                        
                        
                            Nay, nay, Romancer! Poet! Seer!
                            Sing us back homefrom there to here:
                            Grant your high grace and wit, but we
                            Most honor your simplicity.
                        
                        
                            Herein are blown from out the South
                            Songs blithe as those of Pan's pursed mouth
                            As sweet in voice as, in perfume,
                            The night-breath of magnolia-bloom
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        A Song of Long Ago
                        
                            A SONG of Long Ago:
                            Sing it lightlysing it low
                            Sing it softlylike the lisping of the lips we used to know
                            When our baby-laughter spilled
                            From the glad hearts ever filled
                            With music blithe as robin ever trilled!
                        
                        
                            Let the fragrant summer breeze,
                            And the leaves of locust-trees,
                            And the apple-buds and -blossoms, and the wings of honey-bees,
                            All palpitate with glee,
                            Till the happy harmony
                            Brings back each childish joy to you and me.
                        
                        
                            Let the eyes of fancy turn
                            Where the tumbled pippins burn
                            Like embers in the orchard's lap of tangled grass and fern,
                            There let the old path wind
                            In and out, and on behind
                            The cider-press that chuckles as we grind.
                        
                        
                            Blend in the song the moan
                            Of the dove that grieves alone,
                            And the wild whir of the locust, and the bumble's
                            And the low of cows that call
                            Through the pasture-bars when all
                            The landscape fades away at evenfall.
                        
                        
                        
                            Then, far away and clear,
                            Through the dusky atmosphere,
                            Let the wailing of the killdee be the only sound we hear:
                            O sad and sweet and low
                            As the memory may know
                            Is the glad-pathetic song of Long Ago!
                        
                    
                    
                        The Wife-Blessed
                        
                            IN youth he wrought, with eyes ablur,
                            Lorn-faced and long of hair
                            In youthin youth he painted her
                            A sister of the air
                            Could clasp her not, but felt the stir
                            Of pinions everywhere.
                        
                        
                            She lured his gaze, in braver days,
                            And tranced him sirenwise;
                            And he did paint her, through a haze
                            Of sullen paradise,
                            With scars of kisses on her face
                            And embers in her eyes.
                        
                        
                            And nownor dream nor wild conceit
                            Though faltering, as before
                            Through tears he paints her, as is meet,
                            Tracing the dear face o'er
                            With lilied patience meek and sweet
                            As Mother Mary wore.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        By Her White Bed
                        
                            BY her white bed I muse a little space:
                            She fell asleepnot very long ago,
                            And yet the grass was here and not the snow
                            The leaf, the bud, the blossom, andher face!
                            Midsummer's heaven above us, and the grace
                            Of Love's own day, from dawn to afterglow;
                            The fireflies' glimmering, and the sweet and low
                            Plaint of the whippoorwills, and every place
                            In thicker twilight for the roses' scent.
                            Then night.She sleptin such tranquillity,
                            I walk atiptoe still, nor dare to weep,
                            Feeling, in all this hush, she rests content
                            That though God stood to wake her for me, she
                            Would mutely plead: "Nay, Lord! Let him so sleep.
                        
                    
                    
                        Reach Your Hand to Me
                        
                            REACH your hand to me, my friend,
                            With its heartiest caress
                            Sometime there will come an end
                            To its present faithfulness
                            Sometime I may ask in vain
                            For the touch of it again,
                            When between us land or sea
                            Holds it ever back from me.
                        
                        
                            Sometime I may need it so,
                            Groping somewhere in the night,
                            It will seem to me as though
                            Just a touch, however light,
                            
                            Would make all the darkness day,
                            And along some sunny way
                            Lead me through an April-shower
                            Of my tears to this fair hour.
                        
                        
                            O the present is too sweet
                            To go on forever thus!
                            Round the corner of the street
                            Who can say what waits for us?
                            Meetinggreeting, night and day,
                            Faring each the selfsame way
                            Still somewhere the path must end.
                            Reach your hand to me, my friend!
                        
                    
                    
                        Thanksgiving
                        
                            LET us be thankfulnot alone because
                            Since last our universal thanks were told
                            We have grown greater in the world's applause,
                            And fortune's newer smiles surpass the old
                        
                        
                            But thankful for all things that come as alms
                            From out the open hand of Providence:
                            The winter clouds and stormsthe summer calms
                            The sleepless dreadthe drowse of indolence
                        
                        
                            Let us be thankfulthankful for the prayers
                            Whose gracious answers were long, long delayed
                            That they might fall upon us unawares,
                            And bless us, as in greater need we prayed.
                        
                        
                        
                            Let us be thankful for the loyal hand
                            That love held out in welcome to our own,
                            When love and only love could understand
                            The need of touches we had never known.
                        
                        
                            Let us be thankful for the longing eyes
                            That gave their secret to us as they wept.
                            Yet in return found, with a sweet surprise,
                            Love's touch upon their lids, and, smiling, slept.
                        
                        
                            And let us, too, be thankful that the tears
                            Of sorrow have not all been drained away,
                            That through them still, for all the coming years,
                            We may look on the dead face of To-day.
                        
                    
                    
                        A Ditty of No Tone
                        Piped to the Spirit of John Keats
                        
                            WOULD that my lips might pour out in thy praise
                            A fitting melodyan air sublime,
                            A song sun-washed and draped in dreamy haze
                            The floss and velvet of luxurious rhyme:
                            A lay wrought of warm languors, and o'er-brimmed
                            With balminess, and fragrance of wild flowers
                            Such as the droning bee ne'er wearies of
                            Such thoughts as might he hymned
                            To thee from this midsummer land of ours
                            Through shower and sunshine, blent for very love.
                        
                        
                        
                            Deep silences in woody aisles wherethrough
                            Cool paths go loitering, and where the trill
                            Of bestiremembered birds hath something: new
                            In cadence for the hearinglingering still
                            Through all the open day that lies beyond
                            Reaches of pasture-lands, vine-wreathen oaks,
                            Majestic still in pathos of decay;
                            The roadthe wayside pond
                            Wherein the dragon-fly an instant soaks
                            His filmy wing-tips ere he flits away.
                        
                        
                            And I would pluck from out the dank, rich mould,
                            Thick-shaded from the sun of noon, the long
                            Lithe stalks of barley, topped with ruddy gold,
                            And braid them in the meshes of my song;
                            And with them I. would tangle wheat and rye,
                            And wisps of greenest grass the katydid
                            Ere crept beneath the blades of, sulkily,
                            As harvest-hands went by;
                            And weave of all, as wildest fancy bid,
                            A crown of mingled song and bloom for thee.
                        
                    
                    
                        A Dream of Autumn
                        
                            MELLOW hazes, lowly trailing
                            Over wood and meadow veiling
                            Somber skies, with wild-fowl sailing
                            Sailor-like to foreign lands
                            And the north-wind overleaping
                            Summer's brink, and flood-like sweeping
                            Wrecks of roses where the weeping-
                            Willows wring their helpless hands.
                        
                        
                        
                            Flared, like Titan torches flinging
                            Flakes of flame and embers, springing
                            From the vale, the trees stand swinging
                            In the moaning atmosphere;
                            While in dead'ning lands the lowing
                            Of the cattle, sadder growing,
                            Fills the sense to overflowing
                            With the sorrow of the year.
                        
                        
                            Sorrowfully, yet the sweeter
                            Sings the brook in rippled meter
                            Under boughs that lithely teeter
                            Lorn birds, answering from the shores
                            Through the viny, shady-shiny
                            Interspaces, shot with tiny
                            Flying motes that fleck the winy
                            Wave-engraven sycamores.
                        
                        
                            Fields of ragged stubble, wrangled
                            With rank weeds, and shocks of tangled
                            Corn, with crests like rent plumes dangled
                            Over Harvest's battle-plain;
                            And the sudden whir and whistle
                            Of the quail that, like a missile,
                            Whizzes over thorn and thistle,
                            And, a missile, drops again.
                        
                        
                            Muffled voices, hid in thickets
                            Where the redbird stops to stick its
                            Ruddy beak betwixt the pickets
                            Of the truant's rustic trap;
                            
                            And the sound of laughter ringing
                            Where, within the wild vine swinging,
                            Climb Bacchante's schoolmates, flinging;
                            Purple clusters in her lap.
                        
                        
                            Rich as wine, the sunset flashes
                            Round the tilted world, and dashes
                            Up the sloping west, and splashes
                            Red foam over sky and sea
                            Till my dream of Autumn, paling
                            In the splendor all-prevailing,
                            Like a sallow leaf goes sailing
                            Down the silence solemnly.
                        
                    
                    
                        Robert Burns Wilson
                        
                            WHAT intuition named thee?Through what thrill
                            Of the awed soul came the command divine
                            Into the mother-heart, foretelling thine
                            Should palpitate with his whose raptures will
                            Sing on while daisies bloom and lavrocks trill
                            Their undulating ways up through the fine
                            Fair mists of heavenly reaches? Thy pure line
                            Falls as the dew of anthems, quiring still
                            The sweeter since the Scottish singer raised
                            His voice therein, and, quit of every stress
                            Of earthly ache and longing and despair,
                            Knew certainly each simple thing he praised
                            Was no less worthy, for its lowliness,
                            Than any joy of all the glory There.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Rose
                        
                            IT tossed its head at the wooing breeze;
                            And the sun, like a bashful swain,
                            Beamed on it through the waving trees
                            With a passion all in vain,
                            For my rose laughed in a crimson glee,
                            And hid in the leaves in wait for me.
                        
                        
                            The honey-bee came there to sing
                            His love through the languid hours,
                            And vaunt of his hives, as a proud old king
                            Might boast of his palace-towers:
                            But my rose bowed in a mockery,
                            And hid in the leaves in wait for me.
                        
                        
                            The humming-bird, like a courtier gay,
                            Dipped down with a dalliant song,
                            And twanged his wings through the roundelay
                            Of love the whole day long:
                            Yet my rose turned from his minstrelsy
                            And hid in the leaves in wait for me.
                        
                        
                            The firefly came in the twilight dim
                            My red, red rose to woo
                            Till quenched was the flame of love in him,
                            And the light of his lantern too,
                            As my rose wept with dewdrops three
                            And hid in the leaves in wait for me.
                        
                        
                            And I said: I will cull my own sweet rose
                            Some day I will claim as mine
                            The priceless worth of the flower that knows
                            No change, but a bloom divine
                            
                            The bloom of a fadeless constancy
                            That hides in the leaves in wait for me!
                        
                        
                            But time passed by in a strange disguise,
                            And I marked it not, but lay
                            In a lazy dream, with drowsy eyes,
                            Till the summer slipped away,
                            And a chill wind sang in a minor key:
                            "Where is the rose that waits for thee?"
                        
                        
                            I dream to-day, o'er a purple stain
                            Of bloom on a withered stalk,
                            Pelted down by the autumn rain
                            In the dust of the garden-walk,
                            That an Angel-rose in the world to be
                            Will hide in the leaves in wait for me.
                        
                    
                    
                        Elizabeth
                        May 1, 1891
                        
                            ELIZABETH! Elizabeth!
                            The first May-morning whispereth
                            That lispeth through the young-leaved trees,
                            Of bloom and leaf to crown thee queen;-
                            The orchard-blossoms sweetly call
                            Elizabeth! Elizabeth! 231
                        
                        
                        
                            Elizabeth! Lo, lily-fair,
                            In deep, cool shadows of thy hair,
                            Thy face maintaineth its repose.
                            Is it, O sister of the rose,
                            So better, sweeter, blooming thus
                            Than in this briery world with us?
                            Where frost o'ertaketh, and the breath
                            Of biting winter harrieth
                            With sleeted rains and blighting snows
                            All fairest bloomsElizabeth!
                        
                        
                            Nay, then!So reign, Elizabeth,
                            Crowned, in thy May-day realm of death!
                            Put forth the scepter of thy love
                            In every star-tipped blossom of
                            The grassy dais of thy throne!
                            Sadder are we, thus left alone,
                            But gladder they that thrill to see
                            Thy mother's rapture, greeting thee.
                            Bereaved are we by lifenot death
                            Elizabeth! Elizabeth!
                        
                    
                    
                        The Wandering Jew
                        
                            THE stars are failing, and the sky
                            Is like a field of faded flowers;
                            The winds on weary wings go by;
                            The moon hides, and the tempest lowers;
                            And still through every clime and age
                            I wander on a pilgrimage
                            That all men know an idle quest,
                            For that the goal I seek isREST!
                        
                        
                        
                            I hear the voice of summer streams,
                            And, following, I find the brink
                            Of cooling springs, with childish dreams
                            Returning as I bend to drink
                            But suddenly, with startled eyes,
                            My face looks on its grim disguise
                            Of long gray beard; and so, distressed,
                            I hasten on, nor taste of rest.
                        
                        
                            I come upon a merry group
                            Of children in the dusky wood,
                            Who answer back the owlet's whoop,
                            That laughs as it had understood;
                            And I would pause a little space,
                            But that each happy blossom-face
                            Is like to one His hands have blessed
                            Who sent me forth in search of rest.
                        
                        
                            Sometimes I fain would stay my feet
                            In shady lanes, where huddled kine
                            Couch in the grasses cool and sweet,
                            And lift their patient eyes to mine;
                            But I, for thoughts that ever then
                            Go back to Bethlehem again,
                            Must needs fare on my weary quest,
                            And weep for very need of rest.
                        
                        
                            Is there no end? I plead in vain:
                            Lost worlds nor living answer me.
                            Since Pontius Pilate's awful reign
                            Have I not passed eternity?
                            
                            Have I not drunk the fetid breath
                            Of every fevered phase of death,
                            And come unscathed through every pest
                            And scourge and plague that promised rest?
                        
                        
                            Have I not seen the stars go out
                            That shed their light o'er Galilee,
                            And mighty kingdoms tossed about
                            And crumbled clod-like in the sea?
                            Dead ashes of dead ages blow
                            And cover me like drifting snow,
                            And time laughs on as 'twere a jest
                            That I have any need of rest.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Cyclone
                        
                            SO lone I stood, the very trees seemed drawn
                            In conference with themselves.Intenseintense
                            Seemed everything;the summer splendor on
                            The sight,magnificence!
                        
                        
                            A babe's life might not lighter fail and die
                            Than failed the sunlight.Though the hour was noon,
                            The palm of midnight might not lighter lie
                            Upon the brow of June.
                        
                        
                            With eyes upraised, I saw the underwings
                            Of swallowsgone the instant afterward
                            While from the elms there came strange twitterings.
                            Stilled scarce ere they were heard.
                        
                        
                        
                            The river seemed to shiver; and, far down
                            Its darkened length, I saw the sycamores
                            Lean inward closer, under the vast frown
                            That weighed above the shores.
                        
                        
                            Then was a roar, born of some awful burst!. . .
                            And one lay, shrieking, chattering, in my path
                            Flunghe or Iout of some space accurst
                            As of Jehovah's wrath:
                        
                        
                            Nor barely had he wreaked his latest prayer,
                            Ere back the noon flashed oer the ruin done,
                            And, o'er uprooted forests touseled there,
                            The birds sang in the sun.
                        
                    
                    
                        To the Serenader
                        
                            TINKLE on, O sweet guitar,
                            Let the dancing fingers
                            Loiter where the low notes are
                            Blended with the singer's:
                            Let the midnight pour the moon's
                            Mellow wine of glory
                            Down upon him through the tune's
                            Old romantic story!
                        
                        
                            I am listening, my love,
                            Through the cautious lattice,
                            Wondering why the stars above
                            All are blinking at us;
                            
                            Wondering if his eyes from there
                            Catch the moonbeam's shimmer
                            As it lights the robe I wear
                            With a ghostly glimmer.
                        
                        
                            Lilt thy song, and lute away
                            In the wildest fashion:
                            Pour thy rippling roundelay
                            O'er the heights of passion!
                            Flash it down the fretted strings
                            Till thy mad lips, missing
                            All but smothered whisperings,
                            Press this rose I'm kissing.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Curse of the Wandering Foot
                        
                            ALL hope of rest withdrawn me!
                            What dread command hath put
                            This awful curse upon me
                            The curse of the wandering foot?
                            Forward and backward and thither,
                            And hither and yon again
                            Wandering ever! And whither?
                            Answer them, God! Amen.
                        
                        
                            The blue skies are far o'er me
                            The bleak fields near below:
                            Where the mother that bore me?
                            Where her grave in the snow?
                            
                            Glad in her trough of a coffin
                            The sad eyes frozen shut
                            That wept so often, often,
                            The curse of the wandering foot!
                        
                        
                            Here in your marts I care not
                            Whatsoever ye think.
                            Good folk many who dare not
                            Give me to eat and drink:
                            Give me to sup of your pity
                            Feast me on prayers'.O ye,
                            Met I your Christ in the city,
                            He would fare forth with me
                        
                        
                            Forward and onward and thither,
                            And hither again and yon,
                            With milk for our drink together
                            And honey to feed upon
                            Nor hope of rest withdrawn us,
                            Since the one Father put
                            The blessd curse upon us
                            The curse of the wandering foot.
                        
                    
                    
                        A Wraith of Summer-time
                        
                            IN its color, shade and shine,
                            'T was a summer warm as wine,
                            With an effervescent flavoring of flowered bough and vine,
                            And a fragrance and a taste
                            Of ripe roses gone to waste,
                            And a dreamy sense of sun-and moon -and star-light interlaced.
                        
                        
                        
                            'Twas a summer such as broods
                            O'er enchanted solitudes,
                            Where the hand of Fancy leads us through voluptuary moods,
                            And with lavish love outpours
                            All the wealth of out-of-doors,
                            And woos our feet o'er velvet paths and honeysuckle floors.
                        
                        
                            'Twas a summer-time long dead,
                            And its roses, white and red,
                            And its reeds and water-lilies down along the river-bed,
                            O they all are ghostly things
                            For the ripple never sings,
                            And the rocking lily never even rustles as it rings!
                        
                    
                    
                        Out of Nazareth
                        
                            HE shall sleep unscathed of thieves
                            Who loves Allah and believes."
                            Thus heard one who shared the tent,
                            In the far-off Orient,
                            Of the Bedouin ben Ahrzz
                            Nobler never loved the stars
                            Through the palm-leaves nigh the dim
                            Dawn his courser neighed to him!
                        
                        
                        
                            He said: "Let the sands be swarmed
                            With such thieves as I, and thou
                            Shalt at morning rise, unharmed,
                            Light as eyelash to the brow
                            Of thy camel, amber-eyed,
                            Ever munching either side,
                            Striding still, with nestled knees,
                            Through the midnight's oases.
                        
                        
                            "Who can rob thee and thou hast
                            More than this that thou hast
                            At my feetthis dust of gold?
                            Simply this and that, all told!
                            Hast thou not a treasure of
                            Such a thing as men call love?
                        
                        
                            "Can the dusky band I lead
                            Rob thee of thy daily need
                            Of a whiter soul, or steal
                            What thy lordly prayers reveal?
                            Who could be enriched of thee
                            By such hoard of poverty
                            As thy niggard hand pretends
                            To dole methy worst of friends?
                            Therefore shouldst thou pause to bless
                            One indeed who blesses thee:
                            Robbing thee, I dispossess
                            But myself.Pray thou for me!"
                        
                        
                            He shall sleep unscathed of thieves
                            Who loves Allah and believes.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Nessmuk
                        
                            I HAIL thee, Nessmuk, for the lofty tone
                            Yet simple grace that marks thy poetry!
                            True forester thou art, and still to be,
                            Even in happier fields than thou hast known.
                            Thus, in glad visions, glimpses am I shown
                            Of groves delectable"preserves" for thee
                            Ranged but by friends of thineI name thee three:
                            First, Chaucer, with his bald old pate new-grown
                            With changeless laurel; next, in Lincoln-green,
                            Gold-belted, -bowed and-bugled, Robin Hood;
                            And next, Ike Walton, patient and serene:
                            These three, O Nessmuk, gathered hunter-wise,
                            Are camped on hither slopes of Paradise,
                            To hail thee first and greet thee, as they should.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Hoosier Folk-Child
                        
                            THE Hoosier Folk-Childall unsung
                            Unlettered all of mind and tongue;
                            Unmastered, unmolestedmade
                            Most wholly frank and unafraid:
                            Untaught of any schoolunvexed
                            Of law or creedall unperplexed
                            Unsermoned, ay, and undefiled,
                            An all imperfect-perfect child
                            A type which (Heaven forgive us!) you
                            And I do tardy honor to,
                            And so profane the sanctities
                            Of our most sacred memories. 240
                            
                            Who, growing thus from boy to man,
                            That dares not be American?
                            Go, Pride, with prudent underbuzz
                            Go whistle! as the Folk-Child does.
                        
                        
                            The Hoosier Folk-Child's world is not
                            Much wider than the stable-lot
                            Between the house and highway fence
                            That bounds the home his father rents.
                            His playmates mostly are the ducks
                            And chickens, and the boy that "shucks
                            Corn by the shock," and talks of town.
                            And prophesies in boastful tone
                            Of "owning horses of his own,"
                            And "being his own man," and "when
                            He gets to be, what he'll do then."
                            Takes out his jack-knife dreamily
                            And makes the Folk-Child two or three
                            Crude corn-stalk figures,a wee span
                            Of horses and a little man.
                        
                        
                            The Hoosier Folk-Child's eyes are wise
                            And wide and round as Brownies' eyes:
                            The smile they wear is ever blent
                            With all-expectant wonderment,
                            On homeliest things they bend a look
                            As rapt as o'er a picture-book,
                            And seem to ask, whate'er befall,
                            The happy reason of it all:
                            Why grass is all so glad a green,
                            And leavesand what their lispings mean;
                            
                            Why buds grow on the boughs, and why
                            They burst in blossom by and by
                            As though the orchard in the breeze
                            Had shook and popped its pop-corn trees,
                            To lure and whet, as well they might,
                            Some seven-league giant's appetite!
                        
                        
                            The Hoosier Folk-Child's chubby face
                            Has scant refinement, caste or grace,
                            From crown to chim, and cheek to cheek
                            It bears the grimy water-streak
                            Might drool across the window-pane
                            Wherethrough he peers, with troubled frown,
                            As some lorn team drives by for town.
                            His brow is elfed with wispish hair,
                            With tangles in it here and there,
                            As though the warlocks snarled it so
                            At midmirk when the moon sagged low,
                            And boughs did toss and skreek and shake,
                            And children moaned themselves awake,
                            With fingers clutched, and starting sight
                            Blind as the blackness of the night!
                        
                        
                            The Hoosier Folk-Child!Rich is he
                            In all the wealth of poverty!
                            He owns nor title nor estate,
                            Nor speech but half articulate
                            Yet, draped in patched and faded brown,
                            He owns the bird-songs of the hills
                            The laughter of the April rills;
                            
                            And his are all the diamonds set
                            In Morning's dewy coronet,
                            And his the Dusk's first minted stars
                            That twinkle through the pasture-bars
                            And litter all the skies at night
                            With glittering scraps of silver light;
                            >The rainbow's bar, from rim to rim,
                            In beaten gold, belongs to him.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Singer
                        
                            WHILE with Ambition's hectic flame
                            He wastes the midnight oil,
                            And dreams, high-throned on heights of fame,
                            To rest him from his toil,
                        
                        
                            Death's Angel, like a vast eclipse,
                            Above him spreads her wings,
                            And fans the embers of his lips
                            To ashes as he sings.
                        
                    
                    
                        To An Importunate Ghost
                        
                            GET gone, thou most uncomfortable ghost!
                            Thou really dost annoy me with thy thin
                            Impalpable transparency of grin;
                            And the vague, shadowy shape of thee almost
                            Hath vext me beyond boundary and coast
                            Of my broad patience. Stay thy chattering chin,
                            And reel the tauntings of thy vain tongue in,
                        
                        
                        
                            Nor tempt me further with thy vaporish boast
                            That I am helpless to combat thee! Weil,
                            Have at thee, then! Yet if a doom most dire
                            Thou wouldst escape, flee whilst thou canst!Revile
                            Me not, Miasmic Mist!Rank Air! retire!
                            
                            One instant longer an thou haunt'st me, I'll
                            
                                Inhale thee, O thou wraith despicable!
                        
                    
                    
                        June at Woodruff
                        
                            OUT at Woodruff Placeafar
                            From the city's glare and jar,
                            With the leafy trees, instead
                            Of the awnings, overhead;
                            With the shadows cool and sweet,
                            For the fever of the street;
                            With the silence, like a prayer,
                            Brething round us everywhere.
                        
                        
                            Gracious anchorage, at last,
                            From the billows of the vast
                            Tide of life that comes and goes,
                            Whence and where nobody knows
                            Moving, like a skeptic's thought,
                            Out of nowhere into naught.
                            Touch and tame us with thy grace,
                            Placid calm of Woodruff Place!
                        
                        
                            Weave a wreath of beechen leaves
                            For the brow that throbs and grieves
                            O'er the ledger, bloody-lined, '
                            Neath the sunstruck window-blind! 244
                            
                            Send the breath of woodland bloom
                            Through the sick man's prison-room,
                            Till his old farm-home shall swim
                            Sweet in mind to hearten him!
                        
                        
                            Out at Woodruff Place the Muse
                            Dips her sandal in the dews,
                            Sacredly as night and dawn
                            Baptize lilied grove and lawn:
                            Woody path, or paven way
                            She doth haunt them night and day,
                            Sun or moonlight through the trees,
                            To her eyes, are melodies.
                        
                        
                            Swinging lanterns, twinkling clear
                            Through night-seenes, are songs to her
                            Tinted lilts and choiring hues,
                            Blent with children's glad halloos;
                            Then belated lays that fade
                            Into midnight's serenade
                            Vine-like words and zithern-strings
                            Twined through all her slumberings.
                        
                        
                            Blessd be each hearthstone set
                            Neighboring the violet!
                            Blessed every roof-tree prayed
                            Over by the beech's shade!
                            Blessed doorway, opening where
                            We may look on Naturethere
                            Hand to hand and face to face
                            Stoned realm, or Woodruff Place.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Envoy
                        
                            JUST as of old! The world rolls on and on;
                            The day dies into nightnight into dawn
                            Dawn into duskthrough centuries untold.
                            Just as of old.
                        
                        
                            Time loiters not. The river ever flows,
                            Its brink or white with blossoms or with snows;
                            Its tide or warm with spring or winter cold:
                            Just as of old.
                        
                        
                            Lo! where is the beginning, where the end
                            Of living, loving, longing? Listen, friend!
                            God answers with a silence of pure gold
                            Just as of old.
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    ARMAZINDY
                    
                        The Little Red Ribbon
                        
                            THE little red ribbon, the ring and the rose!
                            The summer-time comes and the summer-time goes
                            And never a blossom in all of the land
                            As white as the gleam of her beckoning hand!
                        
                        
                            The long winter months, and the glare of the snows;
                            The little red ribbon, the ring and the rose!
                            And never a glimmer of sun in the skies
                            As bright as the light of her glorious eyes!
                        
                        
                            Dreams only are true; but they fade and are gone
                            For her face is not here when I waken at dawn;
                            The little red ribbon, the ring and the rose
                            
                                Mine only; hers only the dream and repose.
                        
                        
                            I am weary of waiting, and weary of tears,
                            And my heart wearies, too, all these desolate years,
                            Moaning over the one only song that it knows,
                            The little red ribbon, the ring and the rose!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        A Poor Man's Wealth
                        
                            A POOR man? Yes, I must confess
                            No wealth of gold do I possess;
                            No pastures fine, with grazing kine,
                            Nor fields of waving grain are mine;
                            No foot of fat or fallow land
                            Where rightfully my feet may stand
                            The while I claim it as my own
                            By deed and title, mine alone.
                        
                        
                            Ah, poor indeed! perhaps you say
                            But spare me your compassion, pray!
                            When I ride notwith youI walk
                            In Nature's company, and talk
                            With one who will not slight or slur
                            The child forever dear to her
                            And one who answers back, be sure,
                            With smile for smile, though I am poor.
                        
                        
                            And while communing thus, I count
                            An inner wealth of large amount,
                            The wealth of honest purpose blent
                            With Penury's environment,
                            The wealth of owing naught to-day
                            But debts that I would gladly pay,
                            With wealth of thanks still unexpressed
                            With cumulative interest.
                        
                        
                            A wealth of patience and content
                            For all my ways improvident;
                            A faith still fondly exercised
                            For all my plans unrealized;
                            
                            A wealth of promises that still,
                            Howe'er I fail, I hope to fill;
                            A wealth of charity for those
                            Who pity me my ragged clothes.
                        
                        
                            A poor man? Yes, I must confess
                            No wealth of gold do I posses;
                            No pastures fine, with grazing kine,
                            No fields of waving grain are mine;
                            But ah, my friend! I've wealth, no end!
                            For millionaires might condescend
                            To bend the knee and envy me
                            This opulence of poverty.
                        
                    
                    
                        To Edgar Wilson Nye
                        
                            O "WILLIAM,"in thy blithe companionship
                            What liberty is minewhat sweet release
                            From clamorous strife, and yet what boisterous peace!
                            Ho! ho! it is thy fancy's finger-tip
                            That dints the dimple now, and kinks the lip
                            That scarce may sing, in all this glad increase
                            Of merriment! So, pray-thee, do not cease
                            To cheer me thus;for, underneath the quip
                            Of thy droll sorcery, the wrangling fret
                            Of all distress is stilledno syllable
                            Of sorrow vexeth meno teardrops wet
                            My teeming lids save those that leap to tell
                            Thee thou 'st a guest that overweepeth, yet
                            Only because thou jokest overwell.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Silent Victors
                        MAY 30, 1878
                        
                            
                                
                                    "Dying for victory, cheer on cheer
                                
                                
                                    Thundered on his eager ear"
                                
                            
                            CHARLES L. HOLSTEIN.
                        
                        
                            I
                            DEEP, tender, firm and true, the Nation's heart
                            Throbs for her gallant heroes passed away,
                            Who in grim Battle's drama played their part,
                            And slumber here to-day.
                        
                        
                            Warm hearts that beat their lives out at the shrine
                            Of Freedom, while our country held its breath
                            As brave battalions wheeled themselves in line
                            And marched upon their death:
                        
                        
                            When Freedom's Flag, its natal wounds scarce healed,
                            Was torn from peaceful winds and flung again
                            To shudder in the storm of battle-field
                            The elements of men 
                        
                        
                            When every star that glittered was a mark
                            For Treson's ball, and every rippling bar
                            Of red and white was sullied with the dark
                            And purple stain of war:
                        
                        
                            When angry guns, like famished beasts of prey,
                            Were howling o'er their gory feast of lives,
                            And sending dismal echoes far away
                            To mothers, maids, and wives:
                        
                        
                        
                            The mother, kneeling in the empty night,
                            With pleading hands uplifted for the son
                            Who, even as she prayed, had fought the fight,
                            The victory had won:
                        
                        
                            The wife, with trembling hand that wrote to say
                            The babe was waiting for the sire's caress,
                            The letter meeting that upon the way ,
                            The babe was fatherless:
                        
                        
                            The maiden, with her lips, in fancy, pressed
                            Against the brow once dewy with her breath,
                            Now lying numb, unknown, and uncaressed
                            Save by the dews of death.
                        
                        
                            II
                            What meed of tribute can the poet pay
                            The Soldier, but to trail the ivy-vine
                            Of idle rhyme above his grave to-day
                            In epitaph design?,
                        
                        
                            Or wreathe with laurel-words the icy brows
                            That ache no longer with a dream of fame,
                            But, pillowed lowly in the narrow house,
                            Renown'd beyond the name.
                        
                        
                            The dewy tear-drops of the night may fall,
                            And tender morning with her shining hand
                            May brush them from the grasses green and tall
                            That undulate the land.,
                        
                        
                        
                            Yet song of Fcacc nor din of toil and thrifl,
                            Nor chanted honors, with the flowers we heap,
                            Can yield us hope the Hero's head to lift
                            Out of its dreamless sleep:
                        
                        
                            The dear old flag, whose faintest flutter fies
                            A stirring echo through each patriot breast,
                            Can never coax to life the folded eyes
                            That saw its wrongs redressed,
                        
                        
                            That watched it waver when the fight was hot,
                            And blazed with newer courage to its aid,
                            Regardless of the shower of shell and shot
                            Through which the charge was made;,
                        
                        
                            And when, at last, they saw it plume its wings,
                            Like some proud bird in stormy element,
                            And soar untrammeled on its wanderings,
                            They closed in death, content.
                        
                        
                            III
                            O mother you who miss the smiling face
                            Of that dear boy who vanished from your sight,
                            And left you weeping o'er the vacant place
                            He used to fill at night,,
                        
                        
                            Who left you dazed, bewildered, on a day
                            That echoed wild huzzas, and roar of guns
                            That drowned the farewell words you tried to say
                            To incoherent ones,
                        
                        
                        
                            Be glad and proud you had the life to give,
                            Be comforted through all the years to come,,
                            Your country has a longer life to live,
                            Your son a better home.
                        
                        
                            O widow, weeping o'er the orphaned child,
                            Who only lifts his questioning eyes to send
                            A keener pang to grief unreconciled,,
                            Teach him to comprehend
                        
                        
                            He had a father brave enough to stand
                            Before the fire of Treason's blazing gun,
                            That, dying, he might will the rich old land
                            Of Freedom to his son.
                        
                        
                            And, maiden, living on through lonely years
                            In fealty to love's enduring ties ,
                            With strong faith gleaming through the tender tears
                            That gather in your eyes,
                        
                        
                            Look up! and own, in gratefulness of prayer,
                            Submission to the will of Heaven's High Host:,
                            I see your Angel-soldier pacing there,
                            Expectant at his post.,
                        
                        
                            I see the rank and file of armies vast,
                            That must under one supreme control;
                            I hear the trumpet sound the signal-blast,
                            The calling of the roll,
                        
                        
                        
                            The grand divisions falling into line
                            And forming, under voice of One alone
                            Who gives command, and joins with tongue divine
                            The hymn that shakes the Throne.
                        
                        
                            IV
                            And thus, in tribute to the forms that rest
                            In their last camping-ground, we strew the bloom
                            And fragrance of the flowers they loved the best,
                            In silence o'er the tomb.
                        
                        
                            With reverent hands we twine the Hero's wreath
                            And clasp it tenderly on stake or stone
                            That stands the sentinel for each beneath
                            Whose glory is our own.
                        
                        
                            While in the violet that greets the sun,
                            We see the azure eye of some lost boy;
                            And in the rose the ruddy cheek of one
                            We kissed in childish joy,,
                        
                        
                            Recalling, haply, when he marched away,
                            He laughed his loudest though his eyes were wet.,
                            The kiss he gave his mother's brow that day
                            Is there and burning yet:
                        
                        
                            And through the storm of grief around her tossed,
                            One ray of saddest comfort she may see,,
                            Four hundred thousand sons like hers were lost
                            To weeping Liberty.
                        
                        
                        
                            But draw aside the drapery of gloom,
                            And let the sunshine chase the clouds away
                            And gild with brighter glory every tomb
                            We decorate to-day:
                        
                        
                            And in the holy silence reigning round,
                            While prayers of perfume bless the atmosphere,
                            Where loyal souls of love and faith are found,
                            Thank God that Peace is here!
                        
                        
                            And let each angry impulse that may start,
                            Be smothered out of every loyal breast;
                            And, rocked within the cradle of the heart,
                            Let every sorrow rest.
                        
                    
                    
                        An Old-Timer
                        
                            HERE where the wayward stream
                            Is restful as a dream
                            And where the banks o'erlook
                            A pool from out whose deeps
                            My pleased face upward peeps,
                            I cast my hook.
                        
                        
                            Silence and sunshine blent!,
                            A Sabbath-like content
                            Of wood and wave;,a free-
                            Hand landscape grandly wrought
                            Of Summer's brightest thought
                            And mastery.,
                        
                        
                        
                            For here form, light and shade,
                            And color,all are laid
                            With skill so rarely fine,
                            The eye may even see
                            The ripple tremblingly
                            Lip at the line.
                        
                        
                            I mark the dragon-fly
                            Flit waveringly by
                            In ever-veering flight,
                            Till, in a hush profound,
                            I see him eddy round
                            The "cork" and,light!
                        
                        
                            Ho! with the boy's faith then
                            Brimming my heart again,
                            And knowing, soon or late,
                            The "nibble" yet shall roll
                            Its thrills along the pole,
                            I,breathless,wait.
                        
                    
                    
                        What Redress
                        
                            IPRAY you, do not use this thing
                            For vengeance; but if questioning
                            What wound, when dealt your humankind,
                            Goes deepest,,surely he will find
                            Who wrong you, loving him no less
                            There's nothing hurts like tenderness.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Old School-Chum
                        
                            HE puts the poem by, to say
                            His eyes are not themselves to-day!
                        
                        
                            A sudden glamour o'er his sight,
                            A something vague, indefinite,
                        
                        
                            An oft-recurring blur that blinds
                            The printed meaning of the lines,
                        
                        
                            And leaves the mind all dusk and dim
                            In swimming darkness,strange to him!
                        
                        
                            It is not childishness, I guess ,
                            Yet something of the tenderness
                        
                        
                            That used to wet his lashes when
                            A boy seems troubling him again;,
                        
                        
                            The old emotion, sweet and wild,
                            That drove him truant when a child,
                        
                        
                            That he might hide the tears that fell
                            Above the lesson,"Little Nell."
                        
                        
                            And so it is he puts aside
                            The poem he has vainly tried
                        
                        
                            To follow; and, as one who sighs
                            In failure, through a poor disguise
                        
                        
                            Of smiles, he dries his tears, to say
                            His eyes are not themselves to-day.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Three Singing Friends
                        
                            I
                            L'EE O. HARKIS
                            SCHOO'MASTER and Songmaster! Memory
                            Enshrines thee with an equal love for thy
                            Duality of gifts,,thy pure and high
                            Endowments,'earning rare, and poesy
                            These were as mutual handmaids, serving thee,
                            Throughout all seasons of the years gone by,
                            With all enduring joys 'twixt earth and sky,
                            In turn shared nobly with thy friends and me.
                            Thus is it that thy clear song, ringing on,
                            Is endless inspiration, fresh and free
                            As the old Mays at verge of June sunshine;
                            And musical as then, at dewy dawn,
                            The robin hailed us, and all twinklingly
                            Our one path wandered under wood and vine
                        
                        
                            II
                            BENJ. S. PARKER
                            Thy rapt song makes of Earth a realm of light
                            And shadow mystical as some dreamland
                            Arched with unfathomed azure,vast and grand
                            With splendor of the morn; or dazzling bright
                            With orient noon; or strewn with stars of night
                            
                            Thick as the daisies blown in grasses fanned
                            By odorous midsummer breezes and
                            Showered over by all bird-songs exquisite.
                            This is thy voice's beatific art,
                            To make melodious all things below,
                            Calling through them, from far, diviner space
                            Thy clearer hail to us.,The faltering heart
                            Thou cheerest; and thy fellow-mortal so
                            Fares onward under Heaven with lifted face.
                        
                        
                            III
                            JAMES NEWTON MATTHEWS
                            Bard of otir Western world!,its prairies wide,
                            With edging woods, lost creeks and hidden ways;
                            Its isolated farms, with roundelays
                            Of orchard warblers heard on every side;
                            Its cross-road school-house, wherein still abide
                            Thy fondest memories,,since there thy gaze
                            First fell on classic verse; and thou, in praise
                            Of that, didst find thine own song glorified.
                            So singing, smite the strings and counterchange
                            The lucently melodious drippings of
                            Thy happy harp, from airs of "Tempe Vale,"
                            To chirp and trill of lowliest flight and range,
                            In praise of our To-day and home and love,
                            Thou meadow-lark no less than nightingale.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Song I Never Sing
                        
                            AS when in dreams we sometimes hear
                            A melody so faint and fine
                            And musically sweet and clear,
                            It flavors all the atmosphere
                            With harmony divine,
                            So, often in my waking dreams,
                            I hear a melody that seems
                            Like fairy voices whispering
                            To me the song I never sing.
                        
                        
                            Sometimes when brooding o, er the years
                            My lavish youth has thrown away,
                            When all the glowing past appears
                            But as a mirage that my tears
                            Have crumbled to decay ,
                            I thrill to find the ache and pain
                            Of my remorse is stilled again,
                            As, forward bent and listening,
                            I hear the song I never sing.
                        
                        
                            A murmuring of rhythmic words,
                            Adrift on tunes whose currents flow
                            Melodious with the trill of birds,
                            And far-off lowing of the herds
                            In lands of long ago;
                            And every sound the truant loves
                            Comes to me like the coo of doves
                            When first in blooming fields of Spring
                            I heard the song I never sing.
                        
                        
                        
                            The echoes of old voices, wound
                            In limpid streams of laughter where
                            The river Time runs bubble-crowned,
                            And giddy eddies ripple round
                            The lilies growing there;
                            Where roses, bending o'er the brink,
                            Drain their own kisses as they drink.
                            And ivies climb and twine and cling
                            About the song I never sing.
                        
                        
                            An ocean-surge of sound that falls
                            As though a tide of Heavenly art
                            Had tempested the gleaming halls
                            And cresled o'er the golden walls
                            In showers on my heart. . .
                            Thus,thus, with open arms and eyes
                            Uplifted toward the alien skies,
                            Forgetting every earthly thing,
                            I hear the song I never sing
                        
                        
                            O nameless lay, sing clear and strong,
                            Pour down thy melody divine
                            Till purifying floods of song
                            Have washed away the stains of wrong
                            That dim this soul of mine!
                            O woo me near and nearer thee,
                            Till my glad lips may catch the key,
                            And, with a voice unwavering,
                            Join in the song I never sing.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Little David
                        
                            THE mother of the little boy that sleeps
                            Has blest assurance, even as she weeps:
                            She knows her little boy has now no pain,
                            No further ache, in body, heart or brain;
                            All sorrow is lulled for him,all distress
                            Passed into utter peace and restfulness.,
                            All health that heretofore has been denied,
                            All happiness, all hope, and all beside
                            Of childish longing, now he clasps and keeps
                            In voiceless joy,the little boy that sleeps.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Old Trundle-Bed
                        
                            OTHE old trundle-bed where I slept when a boy!
                            What canopied king might not covet the joy?
                            The glory and peace of that slumber of mine,
                            Like a long gracious rest in the bosom divine:
                            The quaint, homely couch, hidden close from the light,
                            But daintily drawn from its hiding at night.
                            O a nest of delight, from the foot to the head,
                            Was the queer little, dear little, old trundle-bed!
                        
                        
                            O the old trundle-bed, where I wondering saw
                            The stars through the window, and listened with awe
                            To the sigh of the winds as they tremblingly crept
                            Through the trees where the robin so restlessly slept:
                            Where I heard the low, murmurous chirp of the wren,
                            And the katydid listlessly chirrup again,
                            Till my fancies grew faint and were drowsily led
                            Through the maze of the dreams of the old trundle-bed.
                        
                        
                        
                            O the old trundle-bed! O the old trundle-bed!
                            With its plump little pillow, and old-fashioned spread;
                            Its snowy-white sheets, and the blankets above,
                            Smoothed down and tucked round with the touches of love;
                            The voice of my mother to lull me to sleep
                            With the old fairy stories my memories keep
                            Still fresh as the lilies that bloom o'er the head
                            Once bowed o'er my own in the old trundle-bed
                        
                    
                    
                        The Voices
                        
                            DOWN in the night I hear them:
                            The Voices,unknown,unguessed,,
                            That whisper, and lisp, and murmur,
                            And will not let me rest,
                        
                        
                            Voices that seem to question,
                            In unknown words, of me,
                            Of fabulous ventures, and hopes and dreams
                            Of this and the World to be.
                        
                        
                            Voices of mirth and music,
                            As in sumptuous homes; and sounds
                            Of mourning, as of gathering friends
                            In country burial-grounds.
                        
                        
                            Cadence of maiden voice,
                            Their lovers' blent with these;
                            And of little children singing,
                            As under orchard trees.
                        
                        
                        
                            And often, up from the chaos
                            Of my deepest dreams, I hear
                            Sounds of their phantom laughter
                            Filling the atmosphere:
                        
                        
                            They call to me from the darkness;
                            They cry to me from the gloom,
                            Till I start sometimes from my pillow
                            And peer through the haunted room;
                        
                        
                            When the face of the moon at the window
                            Wears a pallor like my own,
                            And seems to be listening with me
                            To the low mysterious tone,
                        
                        
                            The low, mysterious clamor
                            Of voices that seem to be
                            Striving in vain to whisper
                            Of secret things to me;,
                        
                        
                            Of a something dread to be warned of;
                            Of a rapture yet withheld;
                            Or hints of the marvelous beauty
                            Of songs unsyllabled.
                        
                        
                            But ever and ever the meaning
                            Falters and fails and dies,
                            And only the silence quavers
                            With the sorrow of my sighs.
                        
                        
                            And I answer:,O Voices, ye may not
                            Make me to understand
                            Till my own voice, mingling with you
                            Laughs in the Shadow-land.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Lovely Child
                        
                            LILIES are both pure and fair,
                            Growing midst the roses there,
                            Roses, too, both red and pink,
                            Arc quite beautiful, I think.
                        
                        
                            But of all bright blossoms,best,
                            Purest,fairest,loveliest,,
                            Could there be a sweeter thing
                            Than a primrose, blossoming?
                        
                    
                    
                        A Good-Bye
                        
                            GOOD-BYE, my friend!"
                            He takes her hand,
                            The pressures blend:
                            They understand
                            But vaguely why, with drooping eye,
                            Each moans,"Good-bye!,Good-bye!"
                        
                        
                            "Dear friend, good-bye!"
                            O she could smile
                            If she might cry
                            A little while!,
                            She says, "I ought to smile,but I,
                            Forgive me,There!,Good-bye!"
                        
                        
                            "'Good-bye?' Ah, no:
                            I hate," says he,
                            "These 'good-byes' so!"
                            "And I," says she,
                            "Detest them so, why, I should die,
                            Were this a real 'good-bye!'"
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Orlie Wilde
                        
                            A GODDESS, with a siren's grace,,
                            A sun-haired girl on a craggy place
                            Above a bay where fish-boats lay
                            Drifting about like birds of prey.
                        
                        
                            Wrought was she of a painter's dream,
                            Wise only as are artists wise,
                            My artist-friend, Rolf Hcrschkelhiem,
                            With deep sad eyes of oversize,
                            And face of melancholy guise.
                        
                        
                            I pressed him that he tell to me
                            This masterpiece's history.
                            He turned,returned,and thus beguiled
                            Me with the tale of Orlie Wilde:,
                        
                        
                            "We artists live ideally:
                            We breed our firmest facts of air;
                            We make our own reality,
                            We dream a thing and it is so.
                            The fairest scenes we ever see
                            The sweetest thoughts we ever know
                            We plagiarize from Long-Ago:
                            And as the girl on canvas there
                            Is marvelotisly rare and fair,
                            'Tis only inasmuch as she
                            Is dumb and may not speak to me!"
                            He tapped me with his mahlstick,then
                            The picture,and went on again:
                        
                        
                        
                            "Orlie Wilde, the fisher's child,
                            I see her yet, as fair and mild
                            As ever nursling summer-day
                            Dreamed on the bosom of the bay:
                            For I was twenty then, and went
                            Alone and long-haired,all content
                            With promises of sounding name
                            And fantasies of future fame,
                            And thoughts that now my mind discards
                            As editor a fledgling bard's.
                        
                        
                            "At evening once I chanced to go,
                            With pencil and portfolio,
                            Adown the street of silver sand
                            That winds beneath this craggy land,
                            To make a sketch of some old scurf
                            Of driftage, nosing through the surf
                            A splintered mast, with knarl and strand
                            Of rigging-rope and tattered threads
                            Of flag and streamer and of sail
                            That fluttered idly in the gale
                            Or whipped themselves to sadder shreds.
                            The while I wrought, half listlessly,
                            On my dismantled subject, came
                            A sea-bird, settling on the same
                            With plaintive moan, as though that he
                            Had lost his mate upon the sea;
                            And,with my melancholy trend,
                            It brought dim dreams half understood,
                            It wrought upon my morbid mood,,
                            I thought of my own voyagings
                            That had no end,that have no end,
                        
                        
                        
                            And, like the sea-bird, I made moan
                            That I was loveless and alone.
                            And when at last with weary wings
                            It went upon its wanderings,
                            With upturned face I watched its flight
                            Until this picture met my sight:
                            A goddess, with a siren's grace,,
                            A sun-haired girl on a craggy place
                            Above a bay where fish-boats lay
                            Drifting about like birds of prey.
                        
                        
                            "In airy poise she, gazing, stood
                            A matchless form of womanhood,
                            That brought a thought that if for me
                            Such eyes had sought across the sea,
                            I could have swum the widest tide
                            That ever mariner defied,
                            And, at the shore, could on have gone
                            To that high crag she stood upon,
                            To there entreat and say,'My Sweet,
                            Behold thy servant at thy feet.'
                            And to my soul I said: 'Above,
                            There stands the idol of thy love!'
                        
                        
                            'In this rapt, awed, ecstatic state
                            I gazed,till lo! I was aware
                            A fisherman had joined her there,
                            A weary man, with halting gait,
                            Who toiled beneath a basket's weight:
                            Her father, as I guessed, for she
                            Had run to meet him gleefully
                            
                            And ta'en his burden to herself,
                            That perched upon her shoulder's shelf
                            So lightly that she, tripping, neared
                            A jutting crag and disappeared;
                            But left the echo of a song
                            That thrills me yet, and will as long
                            As I have being!. . .
                        
                        
                            . . . "Evenings came
                            And went,,but each the same,the same:
                            She watched above, and even so
                            I stood there watching from below;
                            Till, grown so bold at last, I sung ,
                            (What matter now the theme thereof!)
                            Faint as the murmur of a dove,
                            Yet all the more the song of love. . .
                        
                        
                            "I turned and looked upon the bay,
                            With palm to forehead,eyes a-blur
                            In the sea's smile,meant but for her!,
                            I saw the fish-boats far away
                            In misty distance, lightly drawn
                            In chalk-dots on the horizon,
                            Looked back at her, long, wistfully,,
                            And, pushing off an empty skiff,
                            I beckoned her to quit the cliff
                            And yield me her rare company
                            Upon a little pleasure-cruise.,
                            She stood, as loathful to refuse,
                            To muse for full a moment's time,
                            Then answered back in pantomime
                            
                            'She feared some danger from the sea
                            Were she discovered thus with me.'
                            I motioned then to ask her if
                            I might not join her on the cliff;
                            And back again, with graceful wave
                            Of lifted arm, she answer gave
                            'She feared some danger from the sea.'
                        
                        
                            "Impatient, piqued, impetuous, I
                            Sprang in the boat, and flung 'Good-bye'
                            From pouted mouth with angry hand,
                            And madly pulled away from land
                            With lusty stroke, despite that she
                            Held out her hands entreatingly:
                            And when far out, with covert eye
                            I shoreward glanced, I saw her fly
                            In reckless haste adown the crag,
                            Her hair a-flutter like a flag
                            Of gold that danced across the strand
                            In little mists of silver sand.
                            All curious I, pausing, tried
                            To fancy what it all implied,,
                            When suddenly I found my feet
                            Were wet; and, underneath the seat
                            On which I sat, I heard the sound
                            Of gurgling waters, and I found
                            The boat aleak alarmingly. . .
                            I turned and looked upon the sea,
                            Whose every wave seemed mocking me;
                            I saw the fishers' sails once more,
                            In dimmer distance than before;
                            I saw the sea-bird wheeling by,
                        
                        
                        
                            With foolish wish that I could fly:
                            I thought of firm earth, home and friends
                            I thought of everything that tends
                            To drive a man to frenzy and
                            To wholly lose his own command;
                            I thought of all my waywardness
                            Thought of a mother's deep distress;
                            Of youthful follies yet unpurged
                            Sins, as the seas, about me surged
                            Thought of the printer's ready pen
                            A million things without a name
                            I thought of everything butFame. . . .
                        
                        
                            "A memory yet is in my mind,
                            So keenly clear and sharp-defined,
                            I picture every phase and line
                            Of life and death, and neither mine
                            While some fair seraph, golden-haired,
                            Bends over me,with white arms bared,
                            That strongly plait themselves about
                            My drowning weight and lift me out
                            With joy too great for words to state
                            Or tongue to dare articulate!
                        
                        
                            "And this seraphic ocean-child
                            And heroine was Orlie Wilde:
                            And thus it was I came to hear
                            Her voice's music in my ear
                            Ay, thus it was Fate paved the way
                            That I walk desolate to-day!". . .
                            
                            The artist paused and bowed his face
                            Within his palms a little space,
                            While reverently on his form
                            I bent my gaze and marked a storm
                            That shook his frame as wrathfully
                            As some typhoon of agony
                            And fraught with sobsthe more profound
                            For that peculiar laughing sound
                            We hear when strong men weep . . . I lent
                            With warmest sympathyI bent
                            To stroke with soothing hand his brow,
                            He murmuring "'Tis over now!
                            And shall I tie the silken thread
                            Of my frail romance?" "Yes," I said.
                            He faintly smiled; and then, with brow
                            In kneading palm, as one in dread
                            His tasseled cap pushed from his head;
                        
                        
                            Her voice's music I repeat,"
                            He said,"'twas sweetO passing sweet!
                            Though she herself, in uttering
                            Its melody, proved not the thing
                            Of loveliness my dreams made meet
                            For methere yearning, at her feet
                            Prone at her feeta worshiper,
                            For lo! she spake a tongue," moaned he,
                            "Unknow to me;unknow to me
                            As mine to her as mine to her
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        When I Do Mock
                        
                            WHEN I do mock the blackness of the night
                            With my despairoutweep the very dews
                            And wash my wan cheeks stark of all delight,
                            Denying every counsel of dear use
                            In mine embittered state; with infinite
                            Perversity, mine eyes drink in no sight
                            Of pleasance that nor moon nor stars refuse
                            In silver largess and gold twinklings bright;
                            I question me what mannered brain is mine
                            That it doth trick me of the very food
                            It panteth forthe very meat and wine
                            That yet should plump my starvd soul with good
                            And comfortable plethora of ease,
                            That I might drowse away such rhymes as these.
                        
                    
                    
                        Slumber-Song
                        
                            SLEEP, little one! The Twilight folds her gloom
                            Full tenderly about the drowsy Day,
                            And all his tinseled hours of light and bloom
                            Like toys are laid away.
                        
                        
                            Sleep! sleep! The noon-sky's airy cloud of white
                            Has deepened wide o'er all the azure plain;
                            And, trailing through the leaves, the skirts of Night
                            Are wet with dews as rain.
                        
                        
                            But rest thou sweetly, smiling in thy dreams,
                            With round fists tossed like roses o'er thy head,
                            And thy tranc'd lips and eyelids kissed with gleams
                            Of rapture perfected.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        "This Dear Child-Hearted Woman That is Dead"
                        
                            I
                            THIS woman, with the dear childheart,
                            Ye mourn as dead, iswhere and what?
                            With faith as artless as her Art,
                            I question not
                        
                        
                            But dare divine, and feel, and know
                            Her blessednessas hath been writ
                            In allegory.Even so
                            I fashion it:
                        
                        
                            II
                            A stately figure, rapt and awed
                            In her new guise of Angelhood,
                            Still lingered, wistfulknowing God
                            Was very good.
                        
                        
                            Her thought's fine whisper filled the pause;
                            And, listening, the Master smiled,
                            And lo! the stately angel was
                            A little child.
                        
                    
                    
                        To a Jilted Swain
                        
                            GET thee back neglected friends;
                            And repay, as each one lends,
                            Tithes of shallow-sounding glee
                            Or keen-ringing raillery:
                            
                            Get thee from lone vigils; be
                            But in jocund company
                            Where is laughter and acclaim
                            Boisterous above the name.
                            Get where sulking husbands sip
                            Ale-house cheer, with pipe at lip;
                            And where Mol the barmaid saith
                            Curst is she that marrieth.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Frog
                        
                            WHO am I but the Frogthe Frog!
                            My realm is the dark bayou,
                            And my throne is the muddy and moss-grown log
                            That the poison-vine clings to
                            And the blacksnakcs slide in the slimy tide
                            Where the ghost of the moon looks blue.
                        
                        
                            What am I but a Kinga King!
                            For the royal robes I wear
                            A sceptre, too, and a signet-ring,
                            As vassals and serfs declare:
                            And a voice, god wot, that is equaled not
                            In the wide world anywhere!
                        
                        
                            I can talk to the Nightthe Night!
                            Under her big black wing
                            She tells me the tale of the world outright,
                            And the secret of everything;
                            For she knows you all, from the time you crawl,
                            To the doom that death will bring.
                        
                        
                        
                            The Storm swoops down, and he blowsand blows,
                            While I drum on his swollen cheek,
                            And croak in his angered eye that glows
                            With the lurid lightning's streak;
                            While the rushes drown in the watery frown
                            That his bursting passions leak.
                        
                        
                            And I can see through the skythe sky
                            As clear as a piece of glass;
                            And I can tell you the how and why
                            Of the things that come to pass
                            And whether the dead are there instead,
                            Or under the graveyard grass.
                        
                        
                            To your Sovereign lord all hailall hail!
                            To your Prince on his throne so grim!
                            Let the moon swing low, and the high stars trail
                            Their heads in the dust to him;
                            And the wide world sing: Long live the King,
                            And grace to his royal whim!
                        
                    
                    
                        Out of the Hitherwhere
                        
                            OUT of the hitherwhere into the YON
                            The land that the Lord's love rests upon;
                            Where one may rely on the friends he meets,
                            And the smiles that greet him along the streets:
                            Where the mother that left you years ago
                            Will lift the hands that were folded so,
                            And put them about you, with all the love
                            And tenderness you are dreaming of.
                        
                        
                        
                            Out of the hithcrwhere into the YON
                            Where all of the friends of your youth have gone,
                            Where the old schoolmate that laughed with you
                            Will laugh again as he used to do,
                            Running to meet you, with such a face
                            As lights like a moon the wondrous place
                            Where God is living, and glad to live,
                            Since He is the Master and may forgive.
                        
                        
                            Out of the hitherwhere into the YON!
                            Stay the hopes we are leaning on
                            You, Divine, with Your merciful eyes
                            Looking down from the far-away skies,
                            Smile upon us, and reach and take
                            Our worn souls Home for the old home's sake.
                            Out of the hitherwhere into the YON.
                        
                    
                    
                        My Bride That is to Be
                        
                            OSOUL of mine, look out and see
                            My bride, my bride that is to be!
                            Reach out with mad, impatient hands,
                            And draw aside futurity
                            As one might draw a veil aside
                            And so unveil her where she stands
                            Madonna-like and glorified
                            The queen of undiscovered lands
                            Of love, to where she beckons me
                            My bridemy bride that is to be.
                            
                            The shadow of a willow-tree
                            That wavers on a garden-wall
                            In summer-time may never fall
                            In attitude as gracefully
                            As my fair bride that is to be;
                            Nor ever Autumn's leaves of brown
                            As lightly flutter to the lawn
                            As fall her fairy-feet upon
                            The path of love she loiters down.
                            O'er drops of dew she walks, and yet
                            Not one may stain her sandal wet
                            Ay, she might dance upon the way
                            Nor crush a single drop to spray,
                            So airy-like she seems to me,
                            My bride, my bride that is to be.
                        
                        
                            I know not if her eyes are light
                            As summer skies or dark as night,
                            I only know that they are dim
                            With mystery: In vain I peer
                            To make their hidden meaning clear,
                            While o'er their surface, like a tear
                            That ripples to the silken brim,
                            A look of longing seems to swim
                            All worn and weary-like to me;
                            And then, as suddenly, my sight
                            Is blinded with a smile so bright,
                            Through folded lids I still may see
                            My bride, my bride that is to be.
                            
                            Her face is like a night of June
                            Upon whose brow the crescent-moon
                            Hangs pendent in a diadem
                            Of stars, with envy lighting them.
                            And, like a wild cascade, her hair
                            Floods neck and shoulder, arm and wrist,
                            Till only through a gleaming mist
                            I seem to see a Siren there,
                            With lips of love and melody
                            And open arms and heaving breast
                            Wherein I fling myself to rest,
                            The while my heart cries hopessly
                            For my fair bride that is to be.
                        
                        
                            Nay, foolish heart and blinded eyes!
                            My bride hath need of no disguise.
                            But, rather, let her come to me
                            In such a form as bent above
                            My pillow when, in infancy,
                            I knew not anything but love 
                            O let her come from out the lands
                            Of Womanhoodnot fairy isles 
                            And let her come with Woman's hands
                            And Woman's eyes of tears and smiles,-
                            With Woman's hopefulness and grace
                            Of patience lighting up her face:
                            And let her diadem be wrought
                            Of kindly deed and prayerful thought,
                            
                            That ever over all distress
                            May beam the light of cheerfulness.
                            And let her feet be brave to fare
                            The labyrinths of doubt and care,
                            That, following, my own may find
                            The path to Heaven God designed.
                            O let her come like this to me
                            My bridemy bride that is to be.
                        
                    
                    
                        Through Slcepy-Land
                        
                            WHERE do you go when you go to sleep,
                            litfle Boy! Little Boy! where?
                            'Way-way in where's Little Bo-Peep,
                            And Little Boy Blue, and the Cows and Sheep
                            A-wandering 'way in therein there
                            A-wandering 'way in there!
                        
                        
                            And what do you see when lost in dreams,
                            Little Boy, 'way in there?
                            Firefly-glimmers and glow-worm glams
                            And silvery, low, slow-sliding streams,
                            And mermaids, smiling out'way in where
                            They're a-hiding'way in there!
                        
                        
                            Where do you go when the Fairies call,
                            Little Boy! Little Boy! where?
                            Wade through the dews of the grasses tall,
                            Hearing the weir and the waterfall
                            And the Wee-Folk'way in therein there
                            And the Kelpies'way in there!
                        
                        
                        
                            And what do you do when you wake at dawn,
                            Little Boy! Little Boy! what?
                            Hug my Mommy and kiss her on
                            Her smiling eyelids, sweet and wan,
                            And tell her everything I've forgot
                            A-Wandering 'way in therein there
                            Through the blind-world 'way in there!
                        
                    
                    
                        He and I
                        
                            JUST drifting on together
                            He and I
                            As through the balmy weather
                            Of July
                            Drift two thistle-tufts imbedded
                            Each in eachby zephyrs wedded
                            Touring upward, giddy-headed,
                            For the sky.
                        
                        
                            And, veering up and onward
                            Do we seem
                            Forever drifting dawnward
                            In a dream,
                            Where we meet song-birds that know us,
                            And the winds their kisses blow us,
                            While the years flow far below us
                            Like a stream.
                        
                        
                            And we are happyvery
                            He and I
                            Aye, even glad and merry
                            Though on high
                            
                            The heavens are sometimes shrouders
                            By the midnight storm, and clouded
                            Till the pallid moon is crowded
                            From the sky.
                        
                        
                            My spirit ne'er expresses
                            Any choice
                            But to clothe him with caresses
                            And rejoice;
                            And as he laughs, it is in
                            Such a tone the moonbeams glisten
                            And the stars come out to listen
                            To his voice.
                        
                        
                            And so, whate'er the weather,
                            He and I,
                            With our lives linked thus together.
                            Float and fly
                            As two thistle-tufts imbedded
                            Each in eachby zephyrs wedded
                            Touring upward, giddy-headed.
                            For the sky.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Yellowbird
                        
                            HEY! my little Yellowbird,
                            What you doing there?
                            Like a flashing sun-ray,
                            Flitting everywhere:
                            Dangling down the tall weeds
                            
                            And the hollyhocks,
                            And the lordly sunflowers
                            Along the garden-walks.
                        
                        
                            Ho! my gallant Golden-bill,
                            Pecking 'mongst the weeds,
                            You must have for breakfast
                            Golden flower-seeds:
                            Won't you tell a little fellow
                            What you have for tea?
                            'Spcct a peck o' yellow, mellow
                            Pippin on the tree.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Blind Girl
                        
                            IF I might see his face to-day!
                            He is so happy now!To hear
                            His laugh is like a roundelay
                            So ringingsweet and clear!
                            His stepI heard it long before
                            He bounded through the open door
                            To tell his marriage.Ah! so kind
                            So good he is!And Iso blind!
                        
                        
                            But thus he always came to me
                            Me, first of all, he used to bring
                            His sorrow tohis ecstasy
                            His hopes and everything;
                            And if I joyed with him or wept,
                            It was not long the music slept 
                            And if he sung, or if I played
                            Or both,we were the braver made.
                        
                        
                        
                            I grew to know and understand
                            His every word at every call,
                            The gate-latch hinted, and his hand
                            In mine confessed it all:
                            He need not speak one word to me
                            He need not sighI need not see 
                            But just the one touch of his palm,
                            And I would answersong or psalm.
                        
                        
                            He wanted recognitionname
                            He hungered so for higher things,
                            The altitudes of power and fame,
                            And all that fortune brings:
                            Till, with his great heart fevered thus,
                            And aching as impetuous,
                            I almost wished sometimes that he
                            
                            Were blind and patient made, like me.
                        
                        
                            But he has won!I knew he would.
                            Once in the mighty Eastern mart,
                            I knew his music only could
                            Be sung in every heart!
                            And when he proudly sent me this
                            From out the great metropolis,
                            I bent above the graven score
                            And, weeping, kissed it o'er and o'er.
                        
                        
                            And yet not blither sing the birds
                            Than this glad melodythe tune
                            As sweetly wedded with the words
                            As flowers with middle-June;
                            
                            Had he not told me, I had known
                            It was composed of loved alone
                            His love for her.And she can see
                            His happy face eternally!
                        
                        
                            While IO God, forgive, 1 pray!
                            Forgive me that I did so long
                            To look upon his face to-day!
                            I know the wish was wrong.
                            Yea, I am thankful that my sight
                            Is shielded safe from such delight:
                            I can pray better, with this blur
                            Of blindnessboth for him and her.
                        
                    
                    
                        Dreamer, Say
                        
                            DREAMER, say, will you dream for me
                            A wild sweet dream of a foreign land,
                            Whose border sips of a foaming sea
                            With lips of coral and silver sand;
                            Where warm winds loll on the shady deeps,
                            Or lave themselves in the tearful mist
                            The great wild wave of the breaker weeps
                            O'er crags of opal and amethyst?
                        
                        
                            Dreamer, say, will you dream a dream
                            Of tropic shades in the lands of shine,
                            Where the lily leans o'er an amber stream
                            That flows like a rill of wasted wine,
                            
                            Where the palm-trees, lifting their shields of green,
                            Parry the shafts of the Indian sun
                            Whose splintering vengeance falls between
                            The reeds below where the waters run?
                        
                        
                            Dreamer, say, will you dream of love
                            That lives in a land of sweet perfume,
                            Where the stars drip down from the skies above
                            In molten spatters of bud and bloom?
                            Where never the weary eyes are wet,
                            And never a sob in the balmy air,
                            And only the laugh of the paroquet
                            Breaks the sleep of the silence there?
                        
                    
                    
                        An Empty Glove
                        
                            I
                            An empty glovelong withering in the grasp
                            Of Time's cold palm. I lift it to my lips 
                            And lo, once more I thrill beneath its clasp,
                            In fancy, as with odorous finger-tips
                            It reaches from the years that used to be
                            And proffers back love, life and all, to me.
                        
                        
                            II
                            Ah! beautiful she was beyond belief:
                            Her face was fair and lustrous as the moon's;
                            Her eyestoo large for small delight or grief 
                            The smiles of them were Laughter's afternoons;
                            
                            Their tears were April shower, and their love
                            All sweetest speech swoons ere it speaks thereof,
                        
                        
                            III
                            White-fruited coeoa shown against the shell
                            Were not so white as was her brow below
                            The cloven tresses of the hair that fell
                            Across her neck and shoulders of nude snow;
                            Her cheekschaste pallor, with a crimson stain
                            Her mouth was like a red rose rinsed with rain.
                        
                        
                            IV
                            And this was she my fancy held as good
                            As fair and lovablein every wise
                            As peerless in pure worth of womanhood
                            As was her wondrous beauty in men's eyes
                            Yet, all alone, I kiss this empty glove
                            The poor husk of the hand I lovedand love.
                        
                    
                    
                        Our Own
                        
                            THEY walk here with us, hand-in-hand;
                            We gossip, knee-by-knee;
                            They tell us all that they have planned
                            Of all their joys to be,
                            And, laughing, leave us: And, to-day,
                            All desolate we cry
                            Across wide waves of voiceless graves
                            Good-bye! Good-bye! Good-bye!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Leonainic
                        
                            LEONA1NIE-Angels named her;
                            And they took the light
                            Of the laughing stars and framed her
                            In a smile of white;
                            And they made her hair of gloomy
                            Midnight, and her eyes of bloomy
                            Moonshine, and they brought her to me
                            In the solemn night.
                        
                        
                            In a solemn night of summer,
                            When my heart of gloom
                            Blossomed up to greet the comer
                            Like a rose in bloom;
                            All forebodings that distressed me
                            I forgot as Joy caressed me-
                            (Lying Joy! that caught and pressed me
                            In the arms of doom!)
                        
                        
                            Only spake the little lisper
                            In the Angel-tongue;
                            Yet I, listening, heard her whisper,
                            "Songs are only sung
                            Here below that they may grieve you
                            Tales but told you to deceive you,
                            So must Leoninie leave you
                            While her love is young."
                        
                        
                            Then God smiled and it was morning.
                            Matchless and supreme
                            Heaven'S glory seemed adorning
                            Earth with its esteem:
                            
                            Every heart but mine seemed gifted
                            With the voice of prayer, and lifted
                            Where my Leonainie drifted
                            From me like a dream.
                        
                    
                    
                        A Windy Day
                        
                            THE dawn was a dawn of splendor,
                            And the blue of the morning skies
                            Was as placid and deep and tender
                            As the blue of a baby's eyes;
                            The sunshine flooded the mountain,
                            And flashed over land and sea
                            Like the spray of a glittering fountain.
                            But the windthe windAh me!
                        
                        
                            Like a weird invisible spirit,
                            It swooped in its airy flight;
                            And the earth, as the stress drew near it,
                            Quailed as in mute affright;
                            The grass in the green fields quivered
                            The waves of the smitlcn brook
                            Chillily shuddered and shivered,
                            And the reeds bowed down and shook.
                        
                        
                            Like a sorrowful miserere
                            It sobbed, and it blew and blew
                            Till the leaves on the trees looked weary,
                            And my prayers were weary, too;
                            
                            And then, like the sunshine's glimmer
                            That failed in the awful strain,
                            All the hope of my eyes grew dimmer
                            In a spatter of spiteful rain.
                        
                    
                    
                        Envoy
                        
                            WHEN but a little boy, it seemed
                            My dearest rapture ran
                            In fancy ever, when I dreamed
                            I was a mana man!
                        
                        
                            Nowsad perversitylmy theme
                            Of rarest, purest joy
                            Is when, in fancy blest, I dream
                            I am a little boy.
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    HOME-FOLKS
                    
                        Lincoln
                        
                            A PEACEFUL life;just toil and rest
                            All his desire;
                            To read the books he liked the best
                            Beside the cabin fire
                            God's word and man's;to peer sometimes
                            Above the page, in smouldering gleams,
                            And catch, like far heroic rhymes,
                            The onmarch of his dreams.
                        
                        
                            A peaceful life;to hear the low
                            Of pastured herds,
                            Or woodman's ax that, blow on blow,
                            Fell sweet as rhythmic words.
                            And yet there stirred within his breast
                            A fateful pulse that, like a roll
                            Of drums, made high above his rest
                            A tumult in his soul.
                        
                        
                            A peaceful life! . . . They haled him even
                            As One was haled
                            Whose open palms were nailed toward Heaven
                            When prayers nor aught availed.
                            And, lo, he paid the selfsame price
                            To lull a nation's awful strife
                            And will us, through the sacrifice
                            Of self, his peaceful life.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Let Something Good be Said
                        
                            WHEN over the fair fame of friend or foe
                            The shadow of disgrace shall fall, instead
                            Of words of blame, or proof of thus and so,
                            Let something good be said.
                        
                        
                            Forget not that no fellow-being yet
                            May fall so low but love may lift his head:
                            Even the cheek of shame with tears is wet,
                            If something good be said.
                        
                        
                            No generous heart may vainly turn aside
                            In ways of sympathy; no soul so dead
                            But may awaken strong and glorified,
                            If something good be said.
                        
                        
                            And so I charge ye, by the thorny crown,
                            And by the cross on which the Saviour bled,
                            And by your own souls' hope of fair renown,
                            Let something good be said!
                        
                    
                    
                        Your Height is Ours
                        TO RICHARD HENRY STODDARD, AT THE STODDARD BANQUET BY THE
                            AUTHORS' CLUB, NEW YORK, MARCH 25, 1897
                        
                            OPRINCELY poet!kingly heir
                            Of gifts divinely sent,
                            Your own!nor envy anywhere,
                            Nor voice of discontent.
                        
                        
                        
                            Though, of ourselves, all poor are we,
                            And frail and weak of wing,
                            Your height is oursyour ecstasy
                            Your glory, when you sing.
                        
                        
                            Most favored of the gods, and great
                            In gifts beyond our store,
                            We covet not your rich estate,
                            But prize our own the more.
                        
                        
                            The gods give as but gods may do
                            We count oar riches thus 
                            They gave their richest gifts to you,
                            And then gave you to us.
                        
                    
                    
                        "O Life! O Beyond!"
                        
                            STRANCEstrange, O mortal Life,
                            The perverse gifts that came to me from you!
                            From childhood I have wanted all good things:
                            You gave me few
                        
                        
                            You gave me faith in One
                            Divineabove your own imperious might,
                            O mortal Life, while I but wanted you
                            And your delight.
                        
                        
                            I wanted dancing feet,
                            And flowery, grassy path by laughing streams;
                            You gave me loitering steps, and eyes all blurred
                            With tears and dreams.
                        
                        
                        
                            I wanted love,and lo!
                            As though in mockery, you gave me loss.
                            O'erburdencd sore, I wanted rest: you gave
                            The heavier cross.
                        
                        
                            I wanted one poor hut
                            For mine oen home, to creep away into:
                            You gave me only lonelier desert lands
                            To journey through.
                        
                        
                            Now, at the last vast verge
                            Of barren age, I stumble, reel, and fling
                            Me down, with strength all spent and heart athirst
                            And famishing.
                        
                        
                            Yea, now, Life, deal me death,
                            Your worstyour vaunted worst!. . . Across my breast
                            With numb and fumbling hands I gird me for
                            The best.
                        
                    
                    
                        Emerson
                        CONCORD, APRIL 27, 1882
                        
                            WHAT shall we say? In quietude,
                            Within his home, in dreams unguessed,
                            He lies; the grief a nation would
                            Evince must be repressed.
                        
                        
                        
                            Nor meet is it the loud acclaim
                            His countrymen would raisethat he
                            Has left the riches of his fame
                            The whole world's legacy.
                        
                        
                            Then, prayerful, let us pause until
                            We find, as grateful spirits can,
                            The way most worthy to fulfil
                            The tribute due the man.
                        
                        
                            Think what were best in his regard
                            Who voyaged life in such a cause:
                            Our simplest faith were best reward
                            Our silence, best applause.
                        
                    
                    
                        Hymn Exultant
                        FOR EASTER
                        
                            VOICE of Mankind, sing over land and sea
                            Sing, in this glorious morn!
                            The long, long night is gone from Calvary
                            The cross, the thong and thorn;
                            The sated tomb yields up its saintly guest,
                            No longer to be burdened and oppressed.
                        
                        
                            Heart of Mankind, thrill answer to His own,
                            So human, yet divine!
                            For earthly love He left His heavenly throne
                            For love like thine and mine
                            For love of us, as one might kiss a bride,
                            His lifted lips touched death's, all satisfied. 295
                        
                        
                        
                            Soul of Mankind, He wakesHe lives once more!
                            O soul, with heart and voice
                            Sing! sing!the stone rolls chorus from the door
                            Our Lord stands forth.Rejoice!
                            Rejoice, 0 garden-land of song and flowers;
                            Our King returns to us, forever ours!
                        
                    
                    
                        The Name of Old Glory
                        1898
                        
                            I
                            OLD GLORY! say, who,
                            By the ships and the crew,
                            And the long, blended ranks of the gray and the blue,
                            Who gave you, Old Glory, the name that you bear
                            With such pride everywhere
                            As you cast yourself free to the rapturous air
                            And leap out full-length, as we're wanting you to?
                            Who gave you that name, with the ring of the same,
                            And the honor and fame so becoming to you?
                            Your stripes stroked in ripples of white and of red,
                            With your stars at their glittering best overhead
                            By day or by night
                            Their delightfulest light
                            Laughing down from their little square heaven of blue!
                            Who gave you the name of Old Glory?say, who
                            Who gave you the name of Old Glory?
                        
                        
                            
                                The old banner lifted, and faltering then
                            
                            
                                In vague lisps and whispers fell silent again
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            II
                            Old Glory,speak out!we are asking about
                            How you happned to "favor" a name, s0 to say
                            That sounds so familiar and careless and gay
                            As we cheer it and shout in our wild breezy way
                            Wethe crowd, every man of us, calling you that
                            WeTom, Dick, and Harryeach swinging his hat
                            And hurrahing "Old Glory!" like you were our kin,
                            WhenLord!we all know we're as common as sin!
                            And yet it just seems like you humor us all
                            And waft us your thanks, as we hail you and fall
                            Into line, with you over us, waving us on
                            Where our glorified, sanctified betters have gone.
                            And this the reason we're wanting to know
                            (And we're wanting it so!
                            Where our own fathers went we are willing to go.) 
                            Who gave you the name of Old GloryO-ho!
                            Who gave you the name of Old Glory?
                        
                        
                            
                                The old flag unfurled with a billowy thrill
                            
                            
                                For an instant, then wistfully sighed and was still.
                            
                        
                        
                            III
                            Old Glory: the story we're wanting to hear
                            Is what the plain facts of your christening were,
                            For your namejust to hear it,
                            Repeat it, and cheer it, 's a tang to the spirit
                            As salt as a tear;
                            And seeing you fly, and the boys marching by,
                            There's a shout in the throat and a blur in the eye
                            And an acing to live for you alwaysor die,
                            If, dying, we still keep you waving on high.
                            
                            And so, by our love
                            For you, floating above,
                            And the scars of all wars and the sorrows thereof,
                            Who gave you the name of Old Glory, and why
                            Are we thrilled at the name of Old Glory?
                        
                        
                            
                                Then the old banner leafed, like a sail in the blast,
                            
                            
                                And fluttered an audible answer at last.
                            
                        
                        
                            IV
                            And it spake, with a shake of the voice, and it said:
                            By the driven snow-white and the living blood-red
                            Of my bars, and their heaven of stars overhead
                            By the symbol conjoined of them all, skyward cast,
                            As I float from the steeple, or flap at the mast,
                            Or droop o'er the sod where the long grasses nod,
                            My name is as old as the glory of God.
                            . . . So I came by the name of Old Glory.
                        
                    
                    
                        As Created
                        
                            THERE'S a space for good to bloom in
                            Every heart of man or woman,
                            And however wild or human,
                            Or however brimmed with gall,
                            Never heart may beat without it;
                            And the darkest heart to doubt it
                            Has something good about it
                            After all.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        A Song of the Road
                        
                            O I WILL walk with you, my lad, whichever way you fare,
                            You'll have me, too, the side o' you, with heart as light as air;
                            No care for where the road you take's a-Ieadin'any where,
                            It can but be a joyful jant the whilst you journey there.
                            The road you take's the path o' love, an'
                                that's the bridth O' two
                            And I will walk with you, my ladO I will walk with you.
                        
                        
                            Ho! I will walk with you, my lad,
                            Be weather black or blue
                            Or roadsides frost or dew. My lad
                            O I will walk with you.
                        
                        
                            Aye glad, my lad, I'll walk with you, whatever winds may blow,
                            Or summer blossoms stay our steps, or blinding drifts of snow;
                            The way that you set face and foot's the way that I will go,
                            And brave I'll be, abreast o' you, the Saints and Angels know!
                            with loyal hand in loyal hand, and one heart made o' two,
                            Through summer's gold, or winter's cold, it's I will
                                walk with you.
                        
                        
                            Sure, I will walk with you, my lad,
                            As love ordains me to.
                            To Heaven's door, and through, my lad,
                            O I will walk with you.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        To the Judge
                        A VOICE FROM THE INTRRIOR OFOLD HOOP-POLE TOWNSHIP
                        
                            FRIEND of my earliest youth,
                            Can't you arrange to come down
                            And visit a fellow out here in the woods
                            Out of the dust of the town?
                            Can't you forget you're a Judge
                            And put by your dolorous frown
                            And tan your wan face in the smile of a friend
                            Can't you arrange to come down?
                        
                        
                            Can't you forget for a while
                            The arguments prosy and drear,
                            To lean at full-length in indefinite rest
                            In the lap of the greenery here?
                            Can't you kick over "the Bench,"
                            And "husk" yourself out of your gown
                            To dangle your legs where the fishing is good
                            Can't you arrange to come down?
                        
                        
                            Bah! for your office of State!
                            And bah! for its technical lore!
                            What does our President, high in his chair,
                            But wish himself low as before!
                            Pick between peasant and king,
                            Poke your bald head through a crown
                            Or shadow it here with the laurels of Spring!
                            Can't you arrange to come down?
                        
                        
                            "Judge it" out here, if you will,
                            The birds are in session by dawn;
                            You can draw, not complaints, but a sketch of the hill
                            And a breath that your betters have drawn;
                            
                            You can open your heart, like a case,
                            To a jury of kine, white and brown,
                            And their verdict of "Moo" will just satisfy you!
                            Can't you arrange to come down?
                        
                        
                            Can't you arrange it, old Pard?
                            Pigeonhole Blackstone and Kent!
                            Here we have "Breitmann," and Ward,
                            Twain, Burdette, Nye, and content!
                            Can't you forget you're a Judge
                            And put by your dolorous frown
                            And tan your wan face in the smile of a friend
                            Can't you arrange to come down
                        
                    
                    
                        Henry W. Grady
                        ATLANTA, DECEMBER 23, 1889
                        
                            TRUE-JTEARTED friend of all true friendliness!
                            Brother of all true brotherhoods!Thy hand
                            And its late pressure now we understand
                            Most fully, as it falls thus gestureless
                            And Silence lulls thee into sweet excess
                            Of sleep. Sleep thou content!Thy loved Southland
                            Is swept with tears, asrain in sunshine; and
                            Through all the frozen North our eyes confess
                            Like sorrowseeing still the princely sign
                            Set on thy lifted brow, and the rapt light
                            Of the dark, tender, melancholy eyes
                            aThrilled with the music of those lips of thine.
                            And yet the fire thereof that lights the night
                            With the white splendor of thy prophecies.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        From Delphi to Camden
                        
                            I
                            FROM Delphi to Camdenlittle Hoosier towns,
                            But here were classic meadows, blooming dales and downs;
                            And here were grassy pastures, dewy as the leas
                            Trampled over by the trains of royal pageantries!
                        
                        
                            And here the winding highway loitered through the shade
                            Of the hazel-covert, where, in ambuscade,
                            Loomed the larch and linden, and the greenwood-tree
                            Under which bold Robin Hood loud hallooed to me!
                        
                        
                            Here the stir and riot of the busy day
                            Dwindled to the quiet of the breath of May;
                            Gurgling brooks, and ridges lily-marged and spanned
                            By the rustic bridges found in Wonderland!
                        
                        
                            II
                            From Delphi to Camden,from Camden back again!
                            And now the night was on us, and the lightning and the rain;
                            And still the way was wondrous with the flash of hill and plain,
                            The stars like printed asterisksthe moon a murky stain!
                        
                        
                            And I thought of tragic idyl, and of flight and hot pursuit,
                            And the jingle of the bridle and cuirass, and spur on boot,
                            As our horses' hooves struck showers from the flinty bowlders set
                            In freshet-ways of writhing reed and drowning violet.
                        
                        
                        
                            And we passed beleaguered castles, with their battlements a-frown;
                            Where a tree fell in the forest was a turret toppled down;
                            While my master and commanderthe brave knight I galloped with
                            On this reckless road to ruin or to fame wasDr. Smith!
                        
                    
                    
                        The Naturalist
                        OLIVER DAV1E
                        
                            IN gentlest worship has lie bowed
                            To Nature. Rescued from the crowd
                            And din of town and thoroughfare,
                            He turns him from all worldly care
                            Unto the sacred fastness of
                            The forests, and the peace and love
                            That breathes there prayer-like in the breeze
                            And coo of doves in dreamful trees
                            Their tops in laps of sunshine laid,
                            Their lower boughs all slaked with shade.
                        
                        
                            With head uncovered has he stood,
                            Hearing the Spirit of the Wood
                            Hearing aright the Master speak
                            In trill of bird, and warbling creek;
                            Of grasses as the loon darts by
                            Hearing aright the storm and lull,
                            And all earth's voices wonderful,
                            Even this hail an unknown friend
                            Lifts will he hear and comprehend.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        One With a Song
                        FRANK L. STANTON
                        
                            HE sings: and his song is heard,
                            pure as a joyous prayer, Because he sings of the simple things
                            Because he sings of the simple things
                            The fields, and the open air,
                            The orchard-bough, and the mockingbird,
                            And the blossoms everywhere.
                        
                        
                            He sings of a wealth we hold
                            In common ownership
                            The wildwood nook, and the laugh of the brook,
                            And the dewdrop's drip and drip,
                            The love of the lily's heart of gold,
                            And the kiss of the rose's lip.
                        
                        
                            The universal heart
                            Leans listening to his lay
                            That glints and gleams with the glimmering dreams
                            Of children at their play A lay as rich with unconscious art
                            A lay as rich with unconscious of art
                            As the first song-bird's of May.
                        
                        
                            Ours every rapturous tone
                            Of every song of glee,
                            Because his voice makes native choice
                            Of Nature's harmony
                            So that his singing seems our own,
                            And ours his ecstasy.
                        
                        
                            Steadfastly, bravely glad
                            Above all earthly strees,
                            He lifts his line to heights divine,
                            
                            And, singing, ever says 
                            This is a better world than bad
                            God's love is limitless.
                        
                        
                            He sings: and his song is heard,
                            Pure as a joyous prayer,
                            Because he sings of the simple things
                            The fields, and the open air,
                            The orchard-bough, and the mockingbird,
                            And the blossoms everywhere.
                        
                    
                    
                        On a Fly-Leaf
                        IN JOHN BOYLE O'REILLY'S POEMS
                        
                            SINGERS there are of courtly themes
                            Drapers in versewho would dress their rhymes
                            In robes of ermine; and singers of dreams
                            Of gods high-throned in the classic times;
                            Singers of nymphs, in their dim retreats,
                            Satyrs, with scepter and diadem;
                            But the singer who sing as a man's heart beats
                            Well may blush for the rest of them.
                        
                        
                            I like the thrill of such poems as these 
                            All spirit and fervor of splendid fact
                            Pulse, and muscle, and arteries
                            Of living, heroic thought and act!
                            Where every line is a vein of red
                            And rapturous blood all unconnned
                            As it leaps from a heart that has joyed and bled
                            With the rights and the wrongs of all mankind.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Oscar C. McCutlloch
                        INDIANAPOLIS, DECEMBER 12, 1891
                        
                            WHAT would best please our friend, in token of
                            The sense of our great loss?Our sighs and tears?
                            Nay, these he fought against through all his years,
                            Heroically voicing, high above
                            Grief's ceaseless minor, moaning like a dove,
                            The paean triumphant that the soldier hears,
                            Scaling the walls of death, midst shouts and cheers,
                            The old Flag laughing in his eyes' last love.
                        
                        
                            Nay, then, to pleasure him were it not meet
                            To yield him bravely, as his fate arrives?
                            Drape him in radiant roses, head and feet.
                            And be partakers, while his work survives,
                            Of his fair fame,paying the tribute sweet
                            To all humanityour nobler lives.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Sermon of the Rose
                        
                            WILFUL we are, in our infirmity
                            Of childish questioning and discontent.
                            Whate'er befalls us is divinely meant
                            Thou Truth the clearer for thy mystery!
                            Make us to meet what is or is to be
                            With fervid welcome, knowing it is sent
                            To serve us in some way full excellent,
                            Though we discern it all belatedly.
                            The rose buds, and the rose blooms, and the rose
                            Bows in the dews, and in its fullness, lo,
                            Is in the lover's hand,then on the breast
                            Of her he loves,and there dies.And who knows 306
                            
                            What fate of all a rose may undergo
                            Is fairest, dearest, sweetest, loveliest?
                        
                        
                            Nay, we arc children: we will not mature.
                            A blessed gift must seem a theft; and tears
                            Must storm our eyes when but a joy appear;
                            In drear disguise of sorrow; and how poor
                            We seem when we are richest,most secure
                            Against all poverty the lifelong years
                            We yet must waste in childish doubts and fears
                            That, in despite of reason, still endure!
                            Alas! the sermon of the rose we will
                            Not wisely ponder; nor the sobs of grief
                            Lulled into sighs of rapture, nor the cry
                            Of fierce defiance that again is still.
                            Be patientpatient with our frail belief,
                            And stay it yet a little ere we die.
                        
                        
                            O opulent life of ours, though dispossessed
                            Of treasure after treasure! Youth most fair
                            Went first, but left its priceless coil of hair
                            Moaned over, sleepless nights, kissed and caressed
                            Through drip and blur of tears the tendercst.
                            And next went Lovethe ripe rose glowing there,
                            Her very sister!. . . Ms here, but where
                            Is she, of all the world the first and best?
                            And yet how sweet the sweet earth after rain
                            How sweet the sunlight on the garden-wall
                            Across the rosesand how sweetly flows
                            The limpid yodel of the brook again!
                            And yetand yet how sweeter, after all,
                            The smoldering sweetness of a dead red rose.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        What the Wind Said
                        
                            
                                I MUSE to-day, in a listless way,
                            
                            
                                In the gleam of a summer land;
                            
                            
                                I close my eyes as a lover may
                            
                            
                                At the touch of his sweetheart's hand,
                            
                            
                                And I hear these things in the whisperings
                            
                            
                                Of the zephyrs 'round me fanned:
                            
                        
                        
                            I am the Wind, and I rule mankind,
                            And 1 hold a sovereign reign
                            Over the lands, as God designed,
                            And the waters they contain:
                            Lo! the bound of the wide world round
                            Falleth in my domain!
                        
                        
                            I was born on a stormy morn
                            In a kingdom walled with snow,
                            Whose crystal cities laugh to scorn
                            The proudest the world can show;
                            And the daylight's glare is frozen there
                            In the breath of the blasts that blow.
                        
                        
                            Life to me was a jubilee
                            From the first of my youthful days:
                            Clinking my icy toys with glee
                            Playing my childish plays;
                            Filling my hands with the silver sands
                            To scatter a thousand ways:
                        
                        
                            Chasing the flakes that the Polar shakes
                            From his shaggy coat of white,
                            Or hunting the trace of the track he makes
                            
                            And sweeping it from sight,
                            As he turned to glare from the slippery stair
                            Of the iceberg's farthest height.
                        
                        
                            Till I grew so strong that I strayed ere long
                            From my home of ice and chill;
                            With an eager heart and a merry song
                            I traveled the snows until
                            I heard the thaws in the ice-crag's ja-.vs
                            Crunched with a hungry will;
                        
                        
                            And the angry crash of the waves that dash
                            Themselves on the jagged shore
                            Where the splintered masts of the ice-wrecks flash,
                            And the frightened breakers roar
                            In wild unrest on the ocean's breast
                            For a thousand leagues or more.
                        
                        
                            And the grand old sea invited me
                            With a million beckoning hands,
                            And I spread my wings for a flight as free
                            As ever a sailor plans
                            When his thoughts are wild and his heart beguiled
                            With the dreams of foreign lands.
                        
                        
                            I passed a ship on its homeward trip,
                            With a weary and toil-worn crew;
                            And I kissed their flag with a welcome lip,
                            And so glad a gale I blew
                            That the sailors quaffed their grog and laughed
                            At the work I made them do.
                        
                        
                        
                            I drifted by where sea-groves lie
                            Like brides in the fond caress
                            Of the warm sunshine and the tender sky
                            Where the ocean, passionless
                            And tranquil, lies like a child whose eyes
                            Are blurred with drowsiness.
                        
                        
                            I drank the air and the perfume there,
                            And bathed in a fountain's spray;
                            And I smoothed the wings and the plumage rare
                            Of a bird for his roundelay
                            And fluttered a rag from a signal-crag
                            For a wretched castaway.
                        
                        
                            With a sea-gull resting on my breast,
                            I launched on a madder flight:
                            And I lashed the waves to a wild unrest,
                            And howled with a fierce delight
                            Till the daylight slept; and I wailed and wept
                            Like a fretful babe all night.
                        
                        
                            For I heard the boom of a gun strike doom;
                            And the gleam of a blood-red star
                            Glared at me through the mirk and gloom
                            From the lighthouse tower afar;
                            And I held my breath at the shriek of death
                            That came from the harbor bar.
                        
                        
                            For I am the Wind, and I rule mankind,
                            And I hold a sovereign reign
                            Over the lands, as God designed,
                            
                            And the waters they contain:
                            Lo! the bound of the wide world round
                            Falleth in my domain!
                        
                        
                            I journeyed on, when the night was gone,
                            O'er a coast of oak and pine;
                            And I followed a path that a stream had drawn
                            Through a land of vale and vine,
                            And here and there was a village fair
                            In a nest of shade and shine.
                        
                        
                            I passed o'er lakes where the sunshine shakes
                            And shivers his golden lance
                            On the glittering shield of the wave that breaks
                            Where the fish-boats dip and dance,
                            And the trader sails where the mist unveils
                            The glory of old romance.
                        
                        
                            I joyed to stand where the jeweled hand
                            Of the maiden-morning lies
                            On the tawny brow of the mountain-land,
                            Where the eagle shrieks and cries,
                            And holds his throne to himself alone
                            From the light of human eyes.
                        
                        
                            Adown deep glades where the forest shades
                            Are dim as the dusk of day
                            Where only the foot of the wild beast wades,
                            Or the Indian dares to stray,
                            As the blacksnakes glide through the reeds and hide
                            In the swamp-depths grim and gray.
                        
                        
                        
                            And I turned and fled from the place of dread
                            To the far-off haunts of men.
                            "In the city's heart is rest," I said,
                            But I found it not, and when
                            I saw but care and vice reign there
                            I was filled with wrath again:
                        
                        
                            And I blew a spark in the midnight dark
                            Till it flashed to an angry flame
                            And scarred the sky with a lurid mark
                            As red as the blush of shame:
                            And a hint of hell was the dying yell
                            That up from the ruins came.
                        
                        
                            The bells went wild, and the black smoke piled
                            Its pillars against the night,
                            Till I gathered them, like flocks defiled,
                            And scattered them left and right,
                            While the holocaust's red tresses tossed
                            As a maddened Fury's might.
                        
                        
                            "Ye overthrown!" did I jeer and groan
                            "Ho! who is your master?say!
                            Ye shapes that writhe in the slag and moan
                            Your slow-charred souls away
                            Ye worse than worst of things accurst
                            Ye dead leaves of a day!"
                        
                        
                            I am the Wind, and T rule mankind,
                            And I hold a sovereign reign
                            Over the lands, as God designed,
                            
                            And the waters they contain:
                            Lo! the bound of the wide world round
                            Falleth in my domain!
                        
                        
                            
                                I wake, as one from a dream half done,
                            
                            
                                And gaze with a dazzled eye
                            
                            
                                On an autumn leaf like a scrap of sun
                            
                            
                                That the wind goes whirling by,
                            
                            
                                While afar I hear, with a chill of fear,
                            
                            
                                The winter storm-king sigh.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        On a Youthful Portrait of Stevenson
                        
                            A FACE of youth mature; a mouth of tender,
                            Sad, human sympathy, yet something stoic
                            In clasp of lip: wide eyes of calmest splendor,
                            And brow serenely ample and heroic:
                            The featuresalllit with a soul ideal. . .
                            O visionary boy! what were you seeing,
                            What hearing, as you stood thus midst the real
                            Ere yet one master-work of yours had being?
                        
                        
                            Is it a foolish fancy that we humor 
                            Investing daringly with life and spirit
                            This youthful portrait of you ere one rumor
                            Of your great future spoke that men might hear it?
                            Is it a fancy, or your first of glories,
                            That you were listening, and the camera drew you
                            Hearing the voices of your untold stories
                            And all your lovely poems calling to you?
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Loving Cup
                        
                            TRANCED in the glamour of a dream
                            Where banquet-lights and fancies gleam,
                            And ripest wit and wine abound,
                            And pledges hale go round and round,
                            Lo, dazzled with enchanted rays
                            As in the golden olden days
                            Sir Galahadmy eyes swim up
                            To greet your splendor, Loving Cup!
                        
                        
                            What is the secret of your art,
                            Linking together hand and heart
                            Your myriad votaries who do
                            Themselves most honor honoring you?
                            To win the name that uoy have won?
                            Kissing it back from tuneful lips
                            That sing your praise between the sips!
                        
                        
                            Your spicy breath, O Loving Cup,
                            That, like an incense steaming up,
                            Full-freighted with a fragrance fine
                            As ever swooned on sense of mine,
                            Is rare enough.But then, ah me!
                            That, rising with it, wreathes and blends
                            In forms and faces of my friends!
                        
                        
                            O Loving Cup! in fancy still,
                            I clasp their hands, and feel the thrill
                            Of fellowship that still endures
                            While lips are theirs and wine is yours!
                            
                            And while my memory journeys down
                            The years that lead to Boston Town,
                            Abide where first were rendered up
                            Our mutual loves, O Loving Cup!
                        
                    
                    
                        The Onward Trail
                        MYRON W. REED, DENVER, JANUARY 30, 1899
                        
                            JUST as of oldwith fearless foot
                            And placid face and resolute,
                            He takes the faint, mysterious trail
                            That leads beyond our earthly hail.
                        
                        
                            We would cry, as in last farewell,
                            But that his hand waves, and a spell
                            Is laid upon our tongues: and thus
                            He takes unwordcd leave of us.
                        
                        
                            And it is fitting:As he fared
                            Here with us, so is he prepared
                            For any fortuning the night
                            May hold for him beyond our sight.
                        
                        
                            The moon and stars they still attend
                            His wandering footsteps to the end,
                            He did not question, nor will we,
                            Their guidance and security.
                        
                        
                            So, never parting word nor cry:
                            We feel, with him, that by and by
                            Our onward trails will meet and then
                            Merge and be ever one again
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        A Peace-Hymn of the Republic
                        LOUISVILLE, KY., SEPT. 12, 1895: 29TH ENCAMPEMENT, G. A. R.
                        
                            THERE'S a Voice across the Nation like a mighty ocean-hail
                            Borne up from out the Southward as the seas before the gale;
                            Its breath is in the streaming Flag and in the flying sail
                            As we go sailing on.
                        
                        
                            Tis a Voice that we rememberere its summons soothed as now
                            When it rang in battle-challenge, and we answered vow with vow 
                            With roar of gun and hiss of sword and crash of prow
                            As we went sailing on.
                        
                        
                            Our hope sank, even as we saw the sun sink faint and far 
                            The Ship of State went groping through the blinding smoke of War-
                            Through blackest midnight lurching, all uncheered of moon or star,
                            yet sailingsailing on.
                        
                        
                            As One who spake the dead awake, with life-blood leapin warm
                            Who walked the troubled waters, all unscathed, in mortal form,
                            We felt our Pilot's presence with His hand upon the storm,
                            As we went sailing on.
                        
                        
                        
                            O Voice of passion lulled to peace, this dawning of To-day
                            O Voices twain npw blent as one, ye sing all fears away,
                            Since foe and foe are friends, and lo! the Lord, as glad as they.
                            He sends us sailing on.
                        
                    
                    
                        At Crown Hill
                        
                            LEAVE him here in the fresh greening grasses and trees
                            And the symbols of love, and the solace of these
                            The saintly white lilies and blossoms he keeps
                            In endless caress as he breathlessly sleeps.
                            The tears of our eyes wrong the scene of his rest,
                            For the sky's at its clearestthe sun's at its best
                            The earth at its greenestits wild bud-and-bloom
                            At its sweetest-and sweetest its honey'd perfume.
                            Home! home!-Leave him here in his lordly estate,
                            And with never a tear as we turn from the gate!
                        
                        
                            Turn back to the home that will know him no more,
                            The vines at the window-the sun through the door.
                            Nor sound of his voice, nor the light of his face!. . .
                            But the birds will sing on, and the rose, in his place,
                            Will tenderly smile till we daringly feign
                            He is home with us still, though the tremulous rain
                            Of our tears reappear, and again all is gloom,
                            And all prayerless we sob in the long-darkened room.
                            Heaven portions it thusthe old mystery dim,
                            It is midnight to usit is morning to him.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Enduring
                        
                            A MISTY memoryfaint, far away
                            And vague and dim as childhood's long-lost day
                            Forever haunts and holds me with a spell
                            Of awe and wonder indefinable:
                            A grimy old engraving tacked upon
                            A shoe-shop wall.An ancient temple, drawn
                            Of crumbling granite, sagging portico,
                            And gray, forbidding gateway, grim as woe;
                            And o'er the portal, cut in antique line,
                            The wordscut likewise in this brain of mine
                            "Wouklst have a friend?Wouldst know what friend is best?
                            Have GOD thy friend: He passeth all the rest."
                        
                        
                            Again the old shoemaker pounds and pounds
                            Resentfully, as the loud laugh resounds
                            And the coarse jest is bandied round the throng
                            That smokes about the smoldering stove; and long,
                            Tempestuous disputes arise, and then
                            Even as all like discordsdie again;
                            The while a barefoot boy more gravely heeds
                            The quaint old picture, and tiptoeing reads
                            The lowering portal of the old church door
                            "Wouldst have a friend?Wouldst know what friend is best?
                            Have GOD thy friend: He passeth all the rest."
                        
                        
                            So olderolderolder, year by year,
                            The boy has grown, that now, an old man here,
                            
                            He seems a part of Allegory, where
                            He stands before Life as the old print there
                            Still awed, and marveling what light must be
                            Hid by the door that bars Futurity:
                            Though, ever clearer than with eyes of youth,
                            He reads with his old eyesand tears forsooth
                            "Wouldst have a friend?Wouldst know what friend is best?
                            Have GOD thy friend: He passeth all the rest."
                        
                    
                    
                        The Mother Sainted
                        
                            AND yet she does not stir 
                            Such silence weighs on her
                            We hear the drip
                            Of tear-drops as we press
                            Our kisses answerless
                            On brow and lip.
                        
                        
                            Not even the yearning touch
                            Of lips she loved so much
                            She made their breath
                            One with her own, will she
                            Give answer to and be
                            Wooed back from death.
                        
                        
                            And though he kneel and plead
                            Who was her greatest need,
                            And on her cheek
                            Lay the soft baby-face
                            In its old resting-place,
                            She will not speak.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Old Guitar
                        
                            "NEGLECTED now is the old guitar
                            And mouldering into decay;
                            Fretted with many a rift and scar
                            That the dull dust hides away,
                            While the spider spins a silver star
                            In its silent lips to-day.
                        
                        
                            The keys hold only nerveless strings
                            The sinews of brave old airs
                            Are pulseless now; and the scarf that cling
                            So closely here declares
                            A sad regret in its ravelings
                            And the faded hue it wears.
                        
                        
                            But the old guitar, with a lenient grace,
                            Has cherished a smile for me;
                            And its features hint of a fairer face
                            That comes with a memory
                            Of a flower-and-perfume-haunted place
                            And a moonlit balcony.
                        
                        
                            Music sweeter than words confess,
                            Or the minstrel's powers invent,
                            Thrilled here once at the light caress
                            Of the fairy hands that lent
                            This excuse for the kiss I press
                            On the dear old instrument.
                        
                        
                            The rose of pearl with the jeweled stem
                            Still blooms; and the tiny sets
                            In the circle all are here; the gem
                            In the keys, and the silver frets;
                            
                            But the dainty fingers that danced o'er them 
                            Alas for the heart's regrets!
                        
                        
                            Alas for the loosened strings to-day,
                            And the wounds of rift and scar
                            On a worn old heart, with its roundelay
                            Enthralled with a stronger bar
                            That Eate weaves on, through a dull decay
                            Like that of the old guitar!
                        
                    
                    
                        Red Riding-Hood
                        
                            SWEET little myth of the nursery story
                            Earliest love of mine infantile breast,
                            Be something tangible, bloom in thy glory
                            Into existence, as thou art addressed!
                            Hasten! appear to me, guidliness and good
                            Thou art so dear to me, Red Riding-Hood!
                        
                        
                            Azure-blue eyes, in a marvel of wonder,
                            Over the dawn of a blush breaking out;
                            Sensitive nose, with a little smile under
                            Trying to hide in a blossoming pout
                            Couldn't be serious, try as yon would,
                            Little mysterious Red Riding-Hood!
                        
                        
                            Hah! little girl, it is desolate, lonely,
                            Out in this gloomy old forest of Life!
                            Here are not pansies and buttercups only
                            Brambles and briers as keen as a knife;
                            And a Heart, ravenous, trails in the wood
                            For the meal have he mustRed Riding-Hood!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        At His Wintry Tent
                        SAMUEL RICHARDSARTISTDENEVER, COLORADO
                        
                            NOT only master of his art was he,
                            But master of his spiritwinged indeed
                            For lordliest height, yet poised for lowliest need
                            Of those, alas! upheld less buoyantly.
                            He gloried even in adversity,
                            And won his country's plaudits, and the meed
                            Of Old World praise, as one loath to succeed
                            While others were denied like victory.
                            Though passed, I count him still my master-friend,
                            Invincible as through his mortal fight 
                            The laughing light of faith still in his eye
                            As, at his wintry tent, pitched at the end
                            Of life, he gaily called to me "Good night,
                            Old friend, good nightfor there is no good-bye."
                        
                    
                    
                        Say Something to Me
                        
                            SAY something to me! I've waited so long
                            Waited and wondered in vain;
                            Only a sentence would fall like a song
                            Over this listening pain
                            Over a silence that glowers and frowns
                            Each tender word that I write.
                        
                        
                            Say something to meif only to tell
                            Me you remember the past;
                            Let the sweet words, like the notes of a bell,
                            Ring out my vigil at last.
                            
                            O it were better, far better than this
                            Doubt and distrust in the breast,
                            For in the wine of a fanciful kiss
                            I could taste Heaven, andrest.
                        
                        
                            Say something to me! I kneel and I plead,
                            In my wild need, for a word;
                            If my poor heart from this silence were freed,
                            I could soar up like a bird
                            In the glad morning, and twitter and sing,
                            Carol and warble and cry
                            Blithe as the lark as he cruises awing
                            Over the deeps of the sky.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Noblest Service
                        DR. WYCKLIFFESMITH, LATE SURGWON 161ST REGIMENT INDIANA VOLUNTEERS,
                            DELPHI, DECEMBER 29, 1899
                        
                            IF all his mourning friends unselfishly
                            Might speak, high over grief, in one accord,
                            What voice of joy were lifted to the Lord
                            For having lent our need such ministry
                            As this man's life has ever proved to be!
                            Yea, even through battle-crash of gun and sword
                            His steadfast step still found the pathway toward
                            The noblest service paid Humanity.
                            O ye to whose rich firesides he has brought
                            A richer light! O watcher at the door
                            Of the lone cabin! O kindred! Comrades!all!
                            Since universal good he dreamed and wrought,
                            Be brave, to pleasure him, as, on before,
                            He leads us, answering Glory's highest call.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Ban
                        
                            I
                            STRANGE dreams of what I used to be,
                            And what I dreamed I would be, swim
                            Before my vision, faint and dim
                            In pictured scenes of fairy-lands;
                            And ever on, with empty hands,
                            And eyes that ever lie to me,
                            And smiles that no one understands,
                            I grope adown my destiny.
                        
                        
                            II
                            Some say I waver as I walk
                            Along the crowded thoroughfares;
                            And some leer in my eyes, and talk
                            Of dullness, while I see in theirs
                            Like fishes' eyes, alive or dead
                            But surfaces of vacancy
                            Blank disks that never seem to see,
                            But glint and glow and glare instead.
                        
                        
                            III
                            The ragged shawl I wear is wet
                            With driving, dripping rains, and yet
                            It seems a royal raiment, where
                            Through twisted torrents of my hair,
                            I see rare gems that gleam and shine
                            Like jewels in a stream of wine;
                            
                            The gaping shoes that clothe my feet
                            Are golden sandals, and the shrine
                            Where courtiers grovel and repeat
                            Vain prayers, and where, in joy thereat,
                            A fair Prince doffs his plumd hat,
                            And kneels, and names me all things sweet.
                        
                        
                            IV
                            Sometimes the sun shines, and the lull
                            Of winter noon is like a tune
                            The stars might twinkle to the moon
                            If night were white and beautiful
                            For when the clangor of the town
                            And strife of traffic softens down,
                            The wakeful hunger that I nurse,
                            Untilah, joy! with drooping head
                            I drowse, and dream that I am dead
                            And buried safe beyond their eyes
                            Who either pity or despise.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Edge of the Wind
                        
                            YE stars in ye skies seem twinkling
                            In icicles of light,
                            And ye edge of ye wiiid cuts keener
                            Than ever ye sword-edge might;
                            Ye footsteps crunch in ye courtway,
                            And ye trough and ye cask go "ping!"
                            Ye china cracks in ye pantry,
                            And ye crickets cease to sing.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Eugene Field
                        
                            WITH gentlest tears, no less than jubilee
                            Of blithest joy, we heard him, and still hear
                            Him singing on, with full voice, pure and clear,
                            Uplifted, as some classic melody
                            In sweetest legends of old minstrelsy;
                            Or, swarming Elfin-like upon the ear,
                            His airy notes make all the atmosphere
                            One blur of bird and bee and lullaby.
                            His tribute:Lustre in the faded bloom
                            Of cheeks of old, old mothers; and the fall
                            Of gracious dews in eyes long dry and dim;
                            And hope in lovers' pathways midst perfume
                            Of woodland haunts; andmeed exceeding all 
                            The love of little children laurels him.
                        
                    
                    
                        Our Boyhood Haunts
                        
                            HO! I'm going back to where
                            We were youngsters.Meet me there,
                            Dear old barefoot chum, and we
                            Will be as we used to be,
                            Lawless rangers up and down
                            The old creek beyond the town
                            Little sunburnt gods at play,
                            Just as in that far-away:
                            Water nymphs, all unafraid,
                            Shall smile at us from the brink
                            Of the old mill-race and wade
                            Tow'rd us as we kneeling drink
                            At the spring our boyhood knew,
                            Pure and clear as morning-dew:
                            
                            And, as we are rising there,
                            Doubly dow'r'd to hear and see,
                            We shall thus be made aware
                            Of an eerie piping, heard
                            High above the happy bird
                            In the hazel: And then we,
                            Just across the creek, shall see
                            (Hah! the goaty rascal!) Pan
                            Hoof it o'er the sloping green,
                            Mad with his own melody,
                            Ay, and (bless the beasty man!)
                            Stamping from the grassy soil
                            Bruised scents of fleur-de-lis,
                            Boneset, mint, and pennyroyal.
                        
                    
                    
                        To Robert Louis Stevenson
                        ON HIS FIRST VISIT OF AMERICA
                        
                            ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON!
                            Blue the lift and braw the dawn
                            O' yer comin' here amang
                            Strangers wha hae luved ye lang!
                            Strangers tae ye we maun be,
                            Yet tae us yc're kenned a wee
                            By the writin's ye hae done,
                            Robert Louis Stevenson.
                        
                        
                            Syne ye've pit ye'r pen tae sic'
                            Tales it stabbt us tae the quick'
                            Whiles o' tropic isles an' seas
                            An' o' gowden treesuries'
                            
                            Tales o' deid men's banes; an' tales
                            Swete as sangs o' nightingales
                            When the mine o' mirk's begun
                            Robert Louis Stevenson.
                        
                        
                            Sae we hail thee! nane the less
                            For the "burr" that ye caress
                            Wi' yer denty tongue o' Scots,
                            O' yer bonnie braes that were
                            Sung o' Burns the Poemer'
                            And that later lavrock, one
                            Robert Louis Stevenson.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Silent Singer
                        MRS. D. M. JORDAN, APRIL 29, 1895
                        
                            ALL sudden she hath ceased to sing
                            Hushed in eternal slumbering.
                            And we make moan that she is dead.
                            Nay; peace! be comforted.
                        
                        
                            Between her singing and her tears
                            She pauses, listeningand she hears
                            The Song we cannot hear.And thus
                            She mutely pities us.
                        
                        
                            Could she speak out, we doubt not she
                            Would turn to us full tenderly,
                            And in the old melodious voice
                            Say: "Weep not, but rejoice."
                        
                        
                        
                            Ay, musical as waters run
                            In woodland rills through shade and sun,
                            The sweet voice would flow on and say,
                            "Be glad with me to-day.
                        
                        
                            "Your Earth was very dear and fair
                            To methe groves and grasses there;
                            The bursting buds and blossomsO
                            I always loved them so!
                        
                        
                            "The very clews within them seemed
                            Reflected by mine eyes and gleamed
                            Adown my cheeks in what you knew
                            As'tears,' and not as dew
                        
                        
                            "Your birds, too, in the orchard-boughs 
                            I could not hear them from the house.
                            But I must leave my work and stray
                            Out in the open day
                        
                        
                            "And the illimitable range
                            Of their vast freedomalways strange
                            And new to meIt pierced my heart
                            With sweetness as a dart!
                        
                        
                            "The singing! singing! singing!All
                            The trees bloomed blossoms musical
                            That chirped and trilled in colors till
                            My whole soul seemed to fill
                        
                        
                            "To overflow with music, so
                            That I have found me kneeling low
                            
                            Midst the lush grass, with murmurous words
                            Thanking the flowers and birds.
                        
                        
                            "So with the ones to me most dear
                            I loved them, as I love them Here:
                            Bear with my memory, therefore,
                            As when in days of yore,
                        
                        
                            "O friends of mine, ye praised the note
                            Of some song, quavering from my throat
                            Out of the overstress of love
                            And all the pain thereof.
                        
                        
                            "And ye, too, do I love with this
                            Same loveand Heaven knows all it is,
                            The birds' song in itbud and bloom
                            The turf, but not the tomb."
                        
                        
                            Between her singing and her tears
                            She pauses, listeningand she hears
                            The Song we cannot hear.And thus
                            She mutely pities us.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Christ
                        
                            "FATHER!" (so The Word) He cried,
                            "Son of Thine, and yet denied;
                            By my brothers dragged and tried,
                            Scoffed and scourged, and crucified,
                            With a thief on cither side
                            Brothers mine, alike belied,
                            Arms of mercy open wide,
                            Father! Father!" So He died.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Home-Voyage
                        GENERAL HENRY W. LAWTON-FEEL AT SAN MATEO, DECEMBER 19, 1899. IN STATE,
                            INDIANAPOLIS, FEBRUARY 6, 1900.
                        
                            BEAR with us, O Great Captain, if our pride
                            Show equal measure with our grief's excess
                            In greting you in this your helplessness
                            To countermad our vanity or hide
                            Your stern displeasure that we thus had tried
                            To praise you, knowing praise was your distress:
                            But this home-coming swells our hearts no less
                            Because for love of home you proudly died.
                            Lo! then, the cable, fathoms 'neath the keel
                            That shapes your course, is eloquent of you;
                            The old flag, too, at half-mast overhead
                            We doubt not that its gale-kissed ripples feel
                            A prouder sense of red and white and blue,
                            The starsAh, God, were they interpreted!
                        
                        
                            In strange lands were your latest honours won
                            In strange wilds, with strange dangers all beset;
                            With rain, like tears, the face of day was wet,
                            As rang the ambushed foeman's fateful gun:
                            And as you felt your final duty done,
                            We feel that glory thrills your spirit yet 
                            When at the front, in swiftest death, you met
                            The patriot's doom and best reward in one.
                            And so the tumult of that island war,
                            At last, for you, is stilled forevermore
                            Its scenes of blood blend white as ocean foam
                            On your rapt vision as you sight afar
                            The sails of peace, and from that alien shore
                            The proud ship bears you on your voyage home.
                        
                        
                        
                            Or rough or smooth the wave, or lowering day
                            Or starlit skyyou hold, by native right,
                            Your high tranquillitythe silent might
                            Of the true heroso you led the way
                            To victory through stormiest battle-fray,
                            Because your followers, high above the fight.
                            Heard your soul's lightest whisper bid them smite
                            For God and man and space to kneel and pray.
                            And thus you cross the seas unto your own
                            Beloved land, convoyed with honors meet,
                            Saluted as your home's first heritage
                            Nor salutation from your State alone,
                            But all the States, gathered in mighty fleet,
                            Dip colors as you move to anchore
                        
                    
                    
                        The Bed
                        
                            I
                            "THOU, of all God's gifts the best,
                            Blessed Bed!" I muse, and rest
                            Thinking how it havened me
                            In my dazed Infancy
                            Ere mine eyes could bear the kind
                            Daylight through the window-blind,
                            Or my lips, in yearning quest,
                            Groping found the mother breast,
                            Or mine utterance but owned
                            Minor sounds that sobbed and moaned.
                        
                        
                            II
                            Gracious Bed that nestled me
                            Even ere the mother's knee 
                            
                            Lulling me to slumber ere
                            Conscious of my treasure there
                            Save the tiny palms that kept
                            Fondling, even as I slept,
                            That rare dual-wealth of mine
                            Softest pillowsweetest wine!
                            Gentlest cheer for mortal guest,
                            And of Love's fare lordliest.
                        
                        
                            III
                            By thy grace, O Bed, the first
                            Blooms of Boyhood-mempries burst:
                            Dreams of riches, swift withdrawn
                            As I, wakening, find the dawn
                            With its glad Spring-face once more
                            Glimmering on me as of yore:
                            Then the bluebird's limpid cry
                            Lulls me like a lullaby,
                            Till falls every failing sense
                            Back to sleep's sheer impotence.
                        
                        
                            IV
                            Or, a truant, home again, 
                            With the moonlight through the pane,
                            And the kiss that ends the prayer
                            Then the footsteps down the stair;
                            And the close hush; and far click
                            Of the old clock; and the thick
                            Sweetness of the locust-bloom
                            Drugging all the enchanted room
                            
                            Into darkness fathoms deep
                            As mine own pure childish sleep.
                        
                        
                            v
                            Gift and spell, O Bed, retell
                            Every lovely miracle
                            Up from childhood's simplest dream
                            Unto manhood's pride supreme!
                            Sacredness no words express,
                            Lo, the young wife's fond caress
                            Of her first-born, while beside
                            Bends the husband, tearful-eyed,
                            Marveling of kiss and prayer
                            Which of these is holier there.
                        
                        
                            VI
                            Trace the vigils through the long.
                            Long nights, when the cricket's song
                            Stunned the sick man's fevered brain,
                            As he tossed and moaned in pain
                            Piteoustill thou, O Bed,
                            Smoothed the pillows for his head,
                            And thy soothest solace laid
                            Round him, and his fever weighed
                            Into slumber deep and cool,
                            And divinely merciful.
                        
                        
                            VII
                            Thus, O Bed, all gratefully
                            I would ever sing of thee
                            
                            Till the final sleep shall fall
                            O'er me, and the crickets call
                            In the grasses where at last
                            I am indolently cast
                            Like a play-worn boy at will.
                            'Tis a Bed befriends me still
                            Yea, and Bed, belike, the best,
                            Softest, safest, blessdest.
                        
                    
                    
                        Whittier--At Newburyport
                        SEPTEMBER 7,1892
                        
                            HAIL to thee, with all good cheer!
                            Though men say thou liest here
                            Dead,
                            And mourn, all uncomforted.
                        
                        
                            By thy faith refining mine,
                            Life still lights those eyes of thine,
                            Clear
                            As the Autumn atmosphere.
                        
                        
                            Ever still thy smile appears
                            As the rainbow of thy tears
                            Bent
                            O'er thy love's vast firmament.
                        
                        
                            Thou endurestshalt endure,
                            Purely, as thy song is pure.
                            Hear
                            Thus my hail: Good cheer! Good cheer!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Unheard
                        
                            I
                            ONE in the musical throng
                            Stood forth with his violin;
                            And warm was his welcome, and long
                            The later applause and the din.
                            He had uttered, with masterful skill,
                            A melody hailed of men;
                            And his own blood leapt a-thrill,
                            As they thundered again.
                        
                        
                            II
                            Another stood forth.And a rose
                            Bloomed in her hairlikewise
                            One at her tremulous throat
                            And a rapture bloomed in her eyes.
                            Tempests of cheers upon cheers,
                            Praises to last a life long;
                            Roses in showers of tears
                            All for her song.
                        
                        
                            III
                            One sat apart and alone,
                            Her lips clasped close and straight,
                            Uttering never a tone
                            That the World might hear, elate
                            Uttering never a low
                            Murmurous verse nor a part
                            Of the veriest songBut O
                            The song in her heart!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        In the Evening
                        
                            I
                            IN the evening of our days,
                            When the first far stars above
                            Glimmer dimmer, through the haze.
                            Than the dewy eyes of love,
                            Shall we mournfully revert
                            To the vanished morns and Mays
                            Of our youth, with hearts that hurt,
                            In the evening of our days?
                        
                        
                            II
                            Shall the hand that holds your own
                            Till the twain are thrilled as now,
                            Be withheld, or colder grown?
                            Shall my kiss upon your brow
                            Falter from its high estate?
                            And, in all forgetful ways,
                            Shall we sit apart and wait
                            In the evening of our days?
                        
                        
                            III
                            Nay, my wifemy life!the gloom
                            Shall enfold us velvetwise,
                            And my smile shall he the groom
                            Of the gladness of your eyes:
                            Gently, gently as the dew
                            Mingles with the darkening maze,
                            I shall fall asleep with you
                            In the evening of our days.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        At Sea
                        
                            YEA, we go down to sea in ships
                            But Hope remains behind.
                            And Love, with laughter on his lips,
                            And Peace, of passive mind;
                            While out across the deeps of night,
                            With lifted sails of prayer,
                            We voyage off in quest of light,
                            Nor find it anywhere.
                        
                        
                            O Thou who wroughtest earth and sea,
                            Yet keepest from our eyes
                            The shores of an eternity
                            In calms of Paradise,
                            Blow back upon our foolish quest
                            With all the driving rain
                            Of blinding tears and wild unrest,
                            And waft us home again!
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    HIS PA'S ROMANCE
                    
                        Her Beautiful Hands
                        
                            O YOUR handsthey are strangely fair!
                            Fairfor the jewels that sparkle there,
                            Fairfor the witchery of the spell
                            That ivory keys alone can tell;
                            But when their delicate touches rest
                            Here in my own do I love them best,
                            As I clasp with eager, acquisitive spans
                            My glorious treasure of beautiful hands!
                        
                        
                            Marvelouswonderfulbeautiful hands!
                            They can coax roses to bloom in the strands
                            Of your brown tresses; and ribbons will twine,
                            Under mysterious touches of thine,
                            Into such knots as entangle the soul
                            And fetter the heart under such a control
                            As only the strength of my love understands
                            My passionate love for your beautiful hands.
                        
                        
                            As I remember the first fair touch
                            Of those beautiful hands that I love so much,
                            I seem to thrill as I then was thrilled,
                            Kissing the glove that I found unfilled
                            When I met your gaze, and the queenly bow,
                            As you said to me, laughingly, "Keep it now!". . .
                            And dazed and alone in a dream I stand,
                            Kissing this ghost of your beautiful hand.
                        
                        
                        
                            When first I loved, in the long ago,
                            And held your hand as I told you so
                            Pressed and caressed it and gave it a kiss
                            And said "I could die for a hand like this!"
                            Little I dreamed love's fullness yet
                            Had to ripen when eyes were wet
                            And prayers were vain in their wild demands
                            For one warm touch of your beautiful hands.
                        
                        
                            Beautiful Hands!O Beautiful Hands!
                            Could you reach out of the alien lands
                            Where you are lingering, and give me, to-night,
                            Only a touchwere it ever so light
                            My heart were soothed, and my weary brain
                            Would lull itself into rest again;
                            For there is no solace the world commands
                            Like the caress of your beautiful hands.
                        
                    
                    
                        A Tinkle of Bells
                        
                            THE light of the moon on the white of the snow.
                            And the answering twinkles along the street,
                            And our sleigh flashing by, in the glamour and glow
                            Of the glorious nights of the long ago,
                            When the laugh of her lips rang clear and sweet
                            As the tinkle our horses shook out of the bells
                            And flung and tossed back
                            On our glittering track
                            In a shower of tremulous, murmuring swells
                            Of the echoing, airy, melodious bells!
                            
                            O the mirth of the bells!
                            And the worth of the bells!
                            Come tinkle again, in this dearth of the bells,
                            This laughter and love that I lack, yearning back
                            For the far-away sound of the bells!
                        
                        
                            Ah! the bells, they were glad in the long ago!
                            And the tinkles they had, they have thrilled me so
                            I have said: "It is they and her songs and face
                            Make summer for me of the wintriest place!"
                            And now but sobbings and sad farewells,
                            As I peer in the night through the sleeted pane,
                            Hearing a clangor and wrangle of bells,
                            And never a tinkle again!
                        
                        
                            The snow is a-swoon, and the moon dead-white,
                            And the frost is wild in the air to-night!
                            Yet still will I linger and listen and pray
                            Till the sound of her voice shall come this way,
                            With a tinkle of bells,
                            And the lisp-like tread
                            Of the hooves of the sleigh,
                            And the murmurs and swells
                            Of the vows she said.
                            And O, I shall listen as madmen may,
                            Till the tinkling bells ring down this way!
                            Till again the grasp of my hand entwines
                            The tensioned loops of the quivering lines,
                            And again we ride in the wake of the pride
                            And the strength of the coursers, side by side;
                        
                        
                        
                            With our faces smitten again by the spray
                            Of the froth of our steeds as we gallop away
                            In affright of the bells,
                            And the might of the bells,
                            And the infinite glee and delight of the bells,
                            As they tinkle and tinkle and tinkle, till they
                            Are heard through a dawn where the mists are drawn,
                            And we canter a gallop and dash away
                            And heard through a dawn where the mists are drawn,
                            Sheer into The Judgment Day!
                        
                    
                    
                        The Old Man of the Sea
                        
                            I 'M The Old Man of the SeaI am!
                            And this is my secret pride,
                            That I have a hundred shapes, all sham,
                            And a hundred names beside:
                            They have named me "Habit," and "Way,"
                                forsooth,
                            "Capricious," and "Fancy-free";
                            But to you, O Youth, I confess the truth,
                            I'm The Old Man of the Sea.
                        
                        
                            I'm The Old Man of the Sea, yo-ho!
                            So lift up a song with me,
                            As I sit on the throne of your shoulders, alone,
                            I'm The Old Man of the Sea.
                        
                        
                            Crowned with the crown of your noblest thought,
                            I'm The Old Man of the Sea:
                            I reign, rule, ruin, and palter not
                            In my pitiless tyranny:
                        
                        
                        
                            You, my lad, are my gay Sindbad,
                            Frisking about, with me
                            High on the perch I have always had
                            I'm The Old Man of the Sea.
                        
                        
                            I'm The Old Man of the Sea, yo-ho!
                            So lift up a song with me,
                            As I sit on the throne of your shoulders, alone,
                            I'm The Old Man of the Sea.
                        
                        
                            Tricked in the guise of your best intent,
                            I am your failuresall
                            I am the victories you invent,
                            And your high resolves that fall:
                            I am the vow you are breaking now
                            As the wassail-bowl swings free
                            And the red guilt flushes your cheek and brow
                            I'm The Old Man of the Sea.
                        
                        
                            I'm The Old Man of the Sea, yo-ho!
                            So lift up a song with me,
                            As I sit on the throne of your shoulders, alone,
                            I'm The Old Man of the Sea.
                        
                        
                            I am your false dreams of success
                            And your mythical future fame
                            Your life-long lies, and your soul's distress
                            And your slowly-dying shame:
                            I'm the chattering half of your latest laugh,
                            And your tongue's last perfidy
                            Your doom, your tomb, and your epitaph. . .
                            I'm The Old Man of the Sea.
                        
                        
                        
                            I'm The Old Man of the Sea, yo-hol
                            So lift up a song with me,
                            As 1 sit on the throne of your shoulders, alone.
                            I'm The Old Man of the Sea.
                        
                    
                    
                        Toil
                        
                            HE had toiled away for a weary while.
                            Thro' day's dull glare and night's deep gloom;
                            And many a long and lonesome mile
                            He had paced in the round of his dismal room;
                            He had fared on hungerhad drunk of pain
                            As the drouthy earth might drink of rain;
                            And the brow he leaned in his trembling palm
                            Throbbed with a misery so intense
                            That never again did it seem that calm
                            Might come to him with the gracious balm
                            Of old-time languor and indolence.
                            And he said, "I will leave the tale half told,
                            And leave the song for the winds to sing;
                            And the penthat pitiless blade of gold
                            That stabs my heart like a dagger-sting
                            I will drive to the hilt through the inkstand's top
                            And spill its blood to the last black drop!"
                            Then he masked his voice with a laugh, and went
                            Out in the world with a lawless grace
                            with a brazen lie in his eyes and face
                            Told in a smile of glad content:
                            He roved the round of pleasures through,
                            And tasted each as it pleased him to;
                        
                        
                        
                            He joined old songs, and the clink and din
                            Of the revelers at the banquet hall;
                            And he tripped his feet where the violin
                            Spun its waltz for the carnival;
                            He looked, bedazed, on the luring wile
                            And the siren-light of a woman's smile.
                            And peered in her eyes as a diver might
                            Peer in the sea ere he leaps outright,
                            Caught his breath, with a glance above,
                            And dropped full-length in the depths of love.
                        
                        
                            'Tis well if ever the false lights die
                            On the alien coasts where our wreck'd hopes lie!
                            'Tis well to feel, through the blinding rain,
                            Our outflung hands touch earth again!
                            Back at last to his lonely room,
                            Filled with its treasure of work to do
                            And radiant with the light and bloom
                            Of the summer sun and his glad soul, too!
                            And sweet as ever the song of birds,
                            Over his work he sang these words:
                        
                        
                            "O friends are good, with their princely ways,
                            And royal hearts they are goodly things;
                            And fellowship, in the long dark days
                            When the drear soul cowers with drooping wings,
                            Is a thing to yearn for.Mirth is good,
                            For a ringing laugh is a rhythmic cry
                            Blown like a hail from the Angelhood
                            To the barque of the lone soul drifting by.
                        
                        
                        
                            Goodly, too, is the mute caress
                            Of woman's hands and their tenderness
                            The warm breath wet with the dews of love
                            The vine-like arms, and the fruit thereof
                            The touch that thrills, and the kiss that melts,
                            But Toil is sweeter than all things else."
                        
                    
                    
                        The Mute Singer
                        
                            THE morning sun seemed fair as though
                            It were a great red rose ablow
                            In lavish bloom,
                            With all the air for its perfume
                            Yet he who had been wont to sing.
                            Could trill no thing.
                        
                        
                            Supine, at a noon, as he looked up
                            Into the vast inverted cup
                            Of heavenly gold,
                            Brimmed with its marvels manifold,
                            And his eye kindled, and his cheek
                            Song could not speak.
                        
                        
                            Night fell forebodingly; he knew
                            Soon must the rain be falling, too,
                            And, home, heartsore,
                            A missive met him at the door
                            Then Song lit on his lips, and he
                            Sang gloriously.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Old School-Day Romances
                        
                            OF the wealth of facts and fancies
                            That our memories may recall
                            The old school-day romances
                            Are the dearest, after all!
                            When some sweet thought revises
                            The half-forgotten tune
                            That opened "Exercises"
                            On "Friday Afternoon."
                        
                        
                            We seem to hear the clicking
                            Of the pencil and the pen,
                            And the solemn ceaseless ticking
                            Of the time-piece ticking then;
                            And we note the watchful master,
                            As he waves the warning rod,
                            With our own heart beating faster
                            Than the boy's who threw the wad.
                        
                        
                            Some little hand uplifted,
                            And the creaking of a shoe:
                            A problem left unsifted
                            For the teacher's hand to do.
                            The murmured hum of learning,
                            And the flutter of a book
                            The smell of something burning,
                            And the school's inquiring look.
                        
                        
                            The bashful boy in blushes;
                            And the girl, with glancing eyes,
                            Who hides her smiles, and hushes
                            The laugh about to rise,
                            
                            Then, with a quick invention,
                            Assumes a serious face,
                            To meet the words, "Attention!
                            Every scholar in his place!"
                        
                        
                            The opening song, page twenty
                            Ah! dear old "Golden Wreath,"
                            You willed your sweets in plenty;
                            And some who look beneath
                            The leaves of Time will linger,
                            And loving tears will start,
                            As Fancy trails her finger
                            O'er the index of the heart.
                        
                        
                            "Good news from Home"We hear it
                            Welling tremulous, yet clear
                            And holy as the spirit
                            Of the song we used to hear
                            "Good news for me"(A throbbing
                            And an aching melody)
                            "Has come across the"(sobbing,
                            Yea, and salty) "dark blue sea!"
                        
                        
                            Or the pan "Scotland's burning!"
                            With its mighty surge and swell
                            Of chorus, still returning
                            To its universal yell
                            Till we're almost glad to drop to
                            Something sad and full of pain
                            And "Skip verse three," and stop, too,
                            Ere our hearts are broke again.
                        
                        
                        
                            Then "the big girls' " compositions,
                            With their doubt, and hope, and glow
                            Of heart and face,conditions
                            Of "the big boys"even so,
                            When themes of "Spring" and "Summer,"
                            And of "Fall" and "Wintertime"
                            Droop our heads and hold us dumber
                            Than the sleighbell's fancied chime.
                        
                        
                            Elocutionary Science
                            Still in changeless infancy!
                            With its "Cataline's Defiance",
                            And "The Banner of the Free":
                            Orlured from Grandma's attic,
                            A ramshackle rocker there
                            Adds a skreek of the dramatic
                            To the poet's "Old Arm-Chair."
                        
                        
                            Or the "Speech of Logan" shifts us
                            From the pathos to the fire;
                            And Tell (with Gessler) lifts us
                            Many noble notches higher
                            Till a youngster, far from sunny,
                            With sad eyes of watery blue,
                            Winds up with something "funny,"
                            Like "Cock-a-doodlc-doo!"
                        
                        
                            Then a Dialogueselected
                            For its realistic worth:
                            The Cruel Boy detected
                            With a turtle turned to earth
                            
                            Back-downward; and, in pleading,
                            The Good Boystrangely gay
                            At such a sad proceeding
                            Says, "Turn him over, pray!"
                        
                        
                            So the exercises taper,
                            Through gradations of delight,
                            To the reading of "The Paper"
                            Which is entertainingquite!
                            For it goes ahead and mentions
                            "If a certain Mr. O.
                            Has serious intentions
                            That he ought to tell her so."
                        
                        
                            It also "Asks permission
                            To intimate to 'John'
                            The dubious condition
                            Of the ground he's standing on;"
                            And, dropping the suggestion
                            To "mind what he's about,"
                            It stuns him with the question
                            "Does his mother know he's out?"
                        
                        
                            And among the contributions
                            To this "Academic Press"
                            Are "Versified Effusions"
                            By"Our Lady Editress"
                            Which fact is proudly stated
                            By the Chief of the concern,
                            Though the verse communicated
                            Bears the pen-name "Fanny Fern."
                        
                        
                        
                            When all has been recited,
                            And the teacher's bell is heard,
                            And visitors, invited,
                            Have dropped a kindly word,
                            A hush of holy feeling
                            Falls down upon us there,
                            As though the day were kneeling,
                            With the twilight for the prayer.
                        
                        
                            Midst the wealth of fact and fancies
                            That our memories may recall,
                            Thus the old school-day romances
                            Are the dearest, after all!
                            When some sweet thought revises
                            The half-forgotten tune
                            That opened "Exercises "
                            On "Friday Afternoon."
                        
                    
                    
                        He Cometh in Sweet Sense
                        
                            HE Cometh in Sweet Sense to thee,
                            Be it or dawn or noon or night,
                            No deepest pain, nor halest glee,
                            But He discerneth it aright.
                        
                        
                            If there be tears bedim thine eyes,
                            His sympathy thou findest plain,
                            The darkest midnight of the skies
                            He weepeth with the tears of rain.
                        
                        
                        
                            If thou art joyful, He hath had
                            His gracious will, and lo, 'tis well,
                            As thou art glad, so He is glad,
                            Nor mercy strained one syllable.
                        
                        
                            Wild vows are words, as prayers are words.
                            God's mercy is not measured by
                            Our poor deservings: He affords
                            To listen, if we laugh or cry.
                        
                    
                    
                        In State
                        
                            IS it the martins or katydids?
                            Early morning or late at night?
                            A dream, belike, kneeling down on the lids
                            Of a dying man's eyesight.
                        
                        
                            Over and over I head the rain
                            Over and over I waked to see
                            The blaze of the lamp as again and again
                            Its stare insulted me.
                        
                        
                            It is not the click of the clock I hear
                            It is the pulse of the clock-and lo!
                            How it throbs and throbs on the quickened ear
                            Of the dead man listening so!
                        
                        
                        
                            I heard them whisper "She would not come;"
                            But, being dead, I knewI knew! . . .
                            Some hearts they love us alive, and some
                            They love us deadthey do!
                        
                        
                            And I am deadand I joy to be,
                            For here are my folded hands, so cold,
                            And yet blood-warm with the roses she
                            Has given me to hold.
                        
                        
                            Deadyea, dead!But I hear the beat
                            Of her heart, as her warm lips touch my brow
                            And O how sweethow blinding sweet
                            To know that she loves me now!
                        
                    
                    
                        A Noon Interval
                        
                            A DEEP, delicious hush in earth and sky
                            A gracious lullsince, from its wakening,
                            The morn has been a feverish, restless thing
                            In which the pulse of Summer ran too high
                            And riotous, as though its heart went nigh
                            To bursting with delights past uttering:
                            Now, as an o'erjoyed child may cease to sing
                            All falteringly at play, with drowsy eye
                            Draining the pictures of a fairy-tale
                            To brim his dreams withthere conies o'er the day
                            A loathful silence, wherein all sounds fail
                            Like loitering tones of some faint roundelay . . .
                            No wakeful effort longer may avail
                            The wand waves, and the dozer sinks away.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        His Room
                        
                            I'M home again, my dear old Room,
                            I'm home again, and happy, too,
                            As, peering through the brightening gloom,
                            I find myself alone with you:
                            Though brief my stay, nor far away,
                            I missed youmissed you night and day
                            As wildly yearned for you as now.
                            Old Room, how are you, anyhow?
                        
                        
                            My easy chair, with open arms,
                            Awaits me just within the door;
                            The littered carpet's woven charms
                            Have never seemed so bright before,
                            The old rosettes and mignonettes
                            And ivy-leaves and violets,
                            Look up as pure and fresh of hue
                            As though baptized in morning dew.
                        
                        
                            Old Room, to me your homely walls
                            Fold round me like the arms of love,
                            And over all my being falls
                            A blessing pure as from above
                            Even as a nestling child caressed
                            And lulled upon a loving breast,
                            With folded eyes, too glad to weep
                            And yet too sad for dreams or sleep.
                        
                        
                            You've been so kind to me, old Room
                            So patient in your tender care
                            My drooping heart in fullest bloom
                            Has blossomed for you unaware;
                            
                            And who but you had cared to woo
                            A heart so dark, and heavy too,
                            As in the past you lifted mine
                            From out the shadow to the shine?
                        
                        
                            For I was but a wayward boy
                            When first you gladly welcomed me
                            And taught me work was truer joy
                            Than rioting incessantly
                            And thus the din that stormed within
                            The old guitar and violin
                            Has fallen in a fainter tone
                            And sweeter, for your sake alone.
                        
                        
                            Though in my absence I have stood
                            In festal halls a favored guest,
                            I missed, in this old quietude,
                            My worthy work and worthy rest
                            By this I know that long ago
                            You loved me first, and told me so
                            In art' mute eloquence of speech,
                            The voice of praise may never reach.
                        
                        
                            For lips and eyes in truth's disguise
                            Confuse the faces of my friends,
                            Till old affection's fondest ties
                            I find unraveling at the ends;
                            But, as I turn to you, and learn
                            To meet my griefs with less concern,
                            Your love seems all I have to keep
                            Me smiling lest I needs must weep.
                        
                        
                        
                            Yet I am happy, and would fain
                            Forget the world and all its woes;
                            So set me to my tasks again
                            Old Room, and lull me to repose:
                            And as we glide adown the tide
                            Of dreams, forever side by side,
                            I'll hold your hands as lovers do
                            Their sweethearts' and talk love to you.
                        
                    
                    
                        A Lost Love
                        
                            'TPWAS a summer ago when he left me here
                            A summer of smiles, with never a tear
                            Till T said to him, with a sob, my dear 
                            Good-by, my lover; good-by!
                        
                        
                            For I loved him, O as the stars love night!
                            And my cheeks for him flashed red and white
                            When first he called me his Heart's delight,
                            Good-by, my lover; good-by!
                        
                        
                            The touch of his hand was a thing divine
                            As he sat with me in the soft moonshine
                            And drank of my love as men drink wine 
                            Good-by, my lover; good-by!
                        
                        
                            And never a night as I knelt in prayer,
                            In thought as white as our own souls were,
                            But in fancy he came and he kissed me there,
                            Good-by, my lover; good-by!
                        
                        
                        
                            But nowah, nou1! what an empty place
                            My whole heart is!Of the old embrace
                            And the kiss I loved there lives no trace
                            Good-by, my lover; good-hy!
                        
                        
                            He sailed not over the stormy sea,
                            And he went not down in the waves not he
                            But O, he is lostfor he married me
                            Good-by, my lover; good-by!
                        
                    
                    
                        The Paths of Peace
                        MAURICE THOMPSON--FEBRUARY 14, 1991
                        
                            HE would have holidayoutworn, in sooth,
                            Would turn again to seek the old release,
                            The open fieldsthe loved haunts of his youth
                            The woods, the waters, and the paths of peace.
                        
                        
                            The restthe recreation he would choose
                            Be his abidingly! Long has he served
                            And greatlyay, and greatly let us use
                            Our grief, and yield him nobly as deserved.
                        
                        
                            Perchancewith subtler senses than our own
                            And love exceeding ourshe listens thus
                            To ever nearer, clearer pipings blown
                            From out the lost lands of Theocritus.
                        
                        
                            Or, haply, he is beckoned from us here
                            By knight or yeoman of the bosky wood,
                            
                            Or, chained in roses, haled a prisoner
                            Before the blithe Immortal, Robin Hood.
                        
                        
                            Or, mayhap, Chaucer signals, and with him
                            And his rare fellows he goes pilgriming;
                            Or Walton signs him, o'er the morning brim
                            Of misty waters midst the dales of Spring.
                        
                        
                            Ho! whereso'er he gose, or whosoe'er
                            He fares with, he has bravely earned the boon.
                            Be his the open, and the glory there
                            Of April-buds, May-blooms and flowers of June!
                        
                        
                            Be his the glittering dawn, the twinkling dew,
                            The breathless pool or gush of laughing streams
                            Be his the triumph of the coming true
                            Of all his loveliest dreams!
                        
                    
                    
                        Kathleen Mavourneen
                        1894
                        
                            Frederick Nicholls Crouch, the musical genius and composer of the well-known
                                air, "Kathleen Mavourneen," was, at above date, living, in helpless
                                age, in his adopted country, Americaa citizen since 1849
                        
                        
                            KATHLEEN Mavourneen! The song is still ringing
                            As fresh and as dear as the trill of the birds;
                            In world-weary hearts it is throbbing and singing
                            In pathos too sweet for the tenderest words.
                            Oh, have we forgotten the one who first breathed it?
                            
                            Oh, have we forgotten his rapturous art
                            Our meed to the master whose genius bequeathed it?
                            Oh, why art thou silent, thou Voice of the Heart?
                            
                                Our meed to the master whose genius bequeathed it
                            
                            
                                Oh, why are we silent, Kathleen Mavourncen!
                            
                        
                        
                            Kathleen Mavourneen! Thy lover still lingers;
                            The long night is waning, the stars pale and few;
                            Thy sad serenader, with tremulous fingers,
                            Is bowed with his tears as the lily with dew;
                            The old harpstrings quaver, the old voice is shaking
                            In sighs and in sobs moans the yearning refrain;
                            The old vision dims, and the old heart is breaking . . .
                            Kathleen Mavourneen, inspire us again!
                            
                                The old vision dims, and the old heart is breaking:
                            
                            Oh, why are we silent, Kathleen Mavowneen!
                        
                    
                    
                        An Order for a Song
                        
                            MAKE me a song of all good things,
                            And fill it full of murmurings,
                            Of merry voices, such as we
                            Remember in our infancy;
                            But make it tender, for the sake
                            Of hearts that brood and tears that break,
                            And tune it with the harmony,
                            The sighs of sorrow make.
                            And pour such music down the rhyme
                        
                        
                            Make me a song of summer-time,
                            And pour such music down the rhyme
                            
                            As ripples over gleaming sands
                            And grassy brinks of meadow-lands;
                            But make it very sweet and low,
                            For need of them that sorrow so,
                            Because they reap with empty hands
                            The dreams of long ago.
                        
                        
                            Make me a song of such a tone,
                            That when we croon it all alone,
                            The tears of longing as they drip,
                            Will break in laughter on the lip;
                            And make it, oh, so pure and clear
                            And jubilant that every ear
                            Shall drink its rapture sip by sip
                            And Heaven lean to hear.
                        
                    
                    
                        Child's Christinas Carol
                        
                            CHRIST used to l, c like you and me,
                            When just a larl in Galilee,
                            So when we pray, on Christmas Day,
                            He favors first the prayers we say:
                            Then waste no tear, but pray with cheer,
                            This gladdest day of all the year:
                        
                        
                            O Brother mine of birth Divine,
                            Upon this natal day of Thine
                            Bear with our stress of happiness
                            Nor count our reverence the less
                            Because with glee and jubilee
                            Our hearts go singing up to Thee.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Old Hec's Idolatry
                        
                            HETGHO! our jolly tilts at New World song!
                            What was the poem indeed! and where the bard
                            "Stabbing his inkpot ever, not his heart,"
                            As Hector phrased it contumeliously,
                            Mouthing and munching, at the orchard-stile,
                            A water-cored rambo whose spirited juice
                            Glanced, sprayed and flecked the sunlight as he month'd
                            And muncht, and muncht and mouth'd. All loved the man!
                            "Our Hector" as his Alma Mater oozed
                            It into utterance"Old Hec" said we
                            Who knew him, hidc-and-tallow, hoof-and-horn!
                            So he: "O ay! my soul! our New World song
                            The tweedledeedles of our modern school
                            A school of minnows,not one gamy bass
                            To hook the angler, not the angler him.
                            Here! all ye little fishes: twcedledee!
                            Soh! onealong the vasty stream of time
                            Glints to the surface with a gasp,and, lo,
                            A bubble! and he thinks, 'My eye!see there,
                            Ye little fishes,there's a song I've sung!'
                            Another gapes: another bubble; then
                            He thinks: 'Well, is it not a wondrous art
                            To breathe a great immortal poem like that!'
                            And then anotherand another still
                            And yet anothertill from brim to brim
                            The tide is pustrded over with a pest
                            Of bubblesbursting bubbles! Ay! O ay!"
                            So, bluff old Hec. And we, who knew his mood
                            Had ramped its worstunless we roused it yet
                            To ire's horiffickest insanity
                            
                            By some inane, unguarded reference
                            To "verse beragged in Hoosier dialect"
                            (A strangely unforgotten coinage of
                            Old Hec's, long years agone)we, so, forbore
                            A word, each glimpsing each, as down we sank,
                            Couched limply in the orchard's selvage, where
                            The rambo finished and the soggy core
                            Zippt at a sapphire wasp with waist more slim
                            Than any slender lady's, of old wars,
                            Pent fasting for long sennights in tall towers
                            That overtop the undercringing seas
                            With one accordant voice, the while he creased
                            His scroll of manuscript, we said "Go on."
                            Then Hector thus:
                        
                        AN IDYL OF THE KING
                        
                            Erewhilc, as Autumn, to King Arthur's court
                            Came Raclus, clamoring: "Lo, has our house
                            Been sacked and pillaged by a lawless band
                            Of robber knaves, led on by Alstanes,
                            The Night-Flower named, because of her fair face,
                            All like a lily gleaming in the dusk
                            Of her dark hairand like a lily brimmed
                            With dewy eyes that drip their limpid smiles
                            Like poison out, for by them has been wro't
                            My elder brother's doom, as much I fear.
                            While three days gone was holden harvest-feast
                            At Lynion Castleclinging like a gull
                            High up the gray cliffs of Caerleon
                            Came, leaf-like lifted from the plain below
                            As by a twisted wind, a rustling pack
                            
                            Of bandit pillagers, with Alstans
                            Bright-fluttering like a red leaf in the front.
                            And ere we were aware of fell intent
                            Not knowing whether it was friend or foe
                            We found us in their toils, and all the house
                            In place of guests held only prisoners
                            Save that the host, my brother, wro't upon
                            By the strange beauty of the robber queen,
                            Was left unfettered, but by silken threads
                            Of fine-spun flatteries and wanton smiles
                            Of the enchantress, till her villain thieves
                            Had rifled as they willed and signal given
                            To gel to horse again. And so they went
                            Their leader flinging backward, as she rode,
                            A kiss to my mad brother-mad since then,
                            For from that sorry hour he but talked
                            Of Alstans, and her rare beauty, and
                            Her purityay, even that he said
                            Was star-white, and should light his life with love
                            Or leave him groping blindly in its quest
                            Thro' all eternity. So, sighing, he
                            Went wandering about till set of sun,
                            Then got to horse, and bade us all farewell;
                            And with his glamoured eyes bent trancedly
                            Upon the tumbled sands that marked the way
                            The robber-woman went, he turned and chased
                            His long black shadow o'er the edge of night."
                        
                        
                            So Raelus, all seemingly befret
                            With such concern as nipped his utterance
                            In scraps of speech: at which Sir Lancelot,
                            
                            Lifting a slow smile to the King, and then
                            Turning his cool eye on the youth"And you
                            Would track this siren-robber to her hold
                            And rout her rascal followers, and free
                            Your brother from the meshes of this queen
                            Of heartsfor there you doubtless think him?"
                            "Ay!"
                            Foamed Raelus, cheek flushed and eye aflame 
                            "So even have I tracked, and found them, too,
                            And know their burrow, shrouded in a copse,
                            Where, faring in my brother's quest, I heard
                            The nicker of his horse, and followed on,
                            And found him tethered in a thicket wild,
                            As tangled in its tress of leaf and limb
                            As is a madman's hair; and down the path
                            That parted it and ran across a knoll
                            And dipped again, all suddenly I came
                            I heard, blown o'er my senses faint and clear
                            As whiffs of summer wind, my brother's voice
                            Lilting a love-song, with the burden tricked
                            With dainty warblings of a woman's tongue:
                            And even as I listening bent, I heard
                            My own heart flutter as a bird that beats
                            For freedom at the bars that prison it.
                            So turned I then and fled as one who flies
                            To save himself alone-forgetful all
                            Of that my dearer selfmy brother.O!"
                            Breaking as sharply as the icy blade
                            
                            That loosens from the eave to slice the air
                            And splinter into scales of flying frost
                            "Thy help! Thy help! A dozen goodly knights
                            Ay, even that, if so it be their hearts
                            Are hungry as my own to right the wrong!"
                        
                        
                            So Raelus. And Arthur graciously
                            Gave ear to him, and, patient, heard him thro',
                            And pitied him, and grained all he asked;
                            Then took his hand and held it, saying. "Strong
                            And ever stronger may its grasp be knit
                            About the sword that flashes in the cause
                            Of good."
                        
                        
                            Thus Raelus, on the morrow' front,
                            Trapped like a knight and shining like a star,
                            Pranced from the archway of the court, and led
                            His glittering lances down the gleaming road
                            That river-like ran winding till it slipped
                            Out of the palace view and spilled their shields
                            Like twinkling bubbles o'er the mountain brim.
                        
                        
                            Then happed it that as Raelus rode, his tongue
                            Kept even pace and cantered ever on
                            Right merrily. His brother, as he said,
                            Had such an idle soul within his breast
                            Such shallowness of fancy for his heart
                            To drift about inthat he well believed
                            Its anchor would lay hold on any smile
                            The lees of womanhood might offer him
                            As for himself, he loved his brother well,
                            Yet had far liefer see him stark and white
                            In marble death than that his veins should burn
                            
                            With such vitality as spent its flame
                            So garishly it knew no steady blaze,
                            But ever wavered round as veered the wind
                            Of his conceit; for he had made his boast
                            Tho' to his own shame did he speak of it
                            That with a wink he could buy every smile
                            That virtue owned. So tattled Raelus
                            Till, heated with his theme, he lifted
                            voice And sang the song, "The Light of Woman's Eyes!"
                            And bright the moon, slipt from its sheath of night,
                        
                        
                            "O bright is gleaming morn on mountain hieght;
                            And bright the moon, slipt from its sheath of night,
                            But brighter is the light of woman's eyes.
                        
                        
                            "And bright the dewdrop, trembling on the lip
                            Of some red rose, or lily petal-tip,
                            Or lash of pink,but brighter woman's eyes.
                        
                        
                            "Bright is the firefly's ever-drifting spark
                            That throbs its pulse of light out in the dark;
                            And bright the stars,but brighter woman's eyes.
                        
                        
                            "Bright morn or even; bright or moon or star,
                            And all the many twinkling lights that are 
                            O brighter than ye all are woman's eyes."
                        
                        
                            So Raelus sang.-And they who rode with him
                            Bewildered were, and even as he sang
                            Went straggling, twos and threes, and fell behind
                            To whisper wonderingly, "Is he a fool?"
                            And "Does he waver in his mind?" and "Does
                            
                            The newness of adventure dazzle him?"
                            So spake they each to each, till far beyond,
                            With but one loathful knight in company,
                            They saw him quit the beaten track, and turn
                            And loitering, they fell in mocking jest
                            Into the grassy margin of a wood.
                            And loitering, they fell in mocking jest
                            Of their strange leader! "See! why, see!" said one 
                            "He needs no help to fight his hornets' nest,
                            But one brave knight to squire him!"pointing on
                            To where fared on the two and disappeared.
                            "O ay!" said one, "belike he is some old
                            War-battered knight of long-forgotten age,
                            That, bursting from his chrysalis, the grave,
                            Comes back to show us tricks we never dreamed!"
                            "Or haply," said another, with a laugh,
                            "He rides ahead to tell them that he comes
                            And shrive them ere his courage catches up."
                            And merry made they all, and each in turn
                            Filliped a witty pellet at his head:
                            Until, at last, their shadows shrunk away
                            And shortened 'neath them and the hour was noon.
                            They flung them from their horses listlessly
                            Within the grassy margin of the wood
                            Where had passed Raelus an hour agone:
                            And, hungered, spied a rustic; and they sent
                            To have them such refreshment as might be
                            Found at the nearest farm,where, as it chanced,
                            Was had most wholesome meat, and milk, and bread;
                            And honey, too, celled in its fretted vase
                            Of gummy gold and dripping nectar-sweet
                            As dreamed of kisses from the lips of love;
                            
                            Wine, too, was broughten, rosy as the dawn
                            That ushers in the morning of the heart;
                            And netted melon, musky as the breath
                            Of breezes blown from out the Orient;
                            And purple clusterings of plum and grape,
                            Blurred with a dust dissolving at the touch
                            Like flakes the fairies had snowed over them.
                            And as the idlers basked, with toast and song
                            And graceful dalliance and wanton jest,
                            A sound of trampling hooves and jingling reins
                            Brake sudden, stilled them; and from out a dim
                            Path leading from the bosky wood there came
                            A troop of mounted damsels, nigh a score,
                            Led by a queenly girl, in crimson clad,
                            With lissome figure lithe and willowy,
                            And face as fair and sweet and pure withal
                            As might a maiden lilyblossom be
                            Ere it has learned the sin of perfect bloom:
                            Her hair, blown backward like a silken scarf
                            And fondled by the sun, was glossier
                            And bluer black than any raven's wing.
                            "And O!" she laughed, not knowing she was heard
                            By any hut her fellows: "Men arc fools!"
                            Then drawing rein, and wheeling suddenly,
                            Her charger mincing backward,"Raelus
                            My Raelus is greater than ye all,
                            Since he is such a fool that he forgets
                            He is a man, and lets bis tongue of love
                            
                            Run babbling like a silly child's; and, pah!
                            I puff him to the winds like thistle-down!"
                            And, wheeling as she spake, found staring up,
                            Wide-eyed and wondering, a group of knights,
                            Half lifted, as their elbows propped their heads,
                            Half lying; and one, smirker than the rest,
                            Stood bowing very low, with upturned eyes
                            Lit with a twinkling smile: "Fair ladyand
                            Most gracious gentleman"seeing that
                            The others drew them back as tho' abashed
                            And veiled their faces with all modesty,
                            Tho' she, their leader, showed not any qualm,
                            "Since all unwittingly we overheard
                            Your latest speech, and since we know at last
                            'All men are fools,' right glad indeed am I
                            That such a nest of us remains for you
                            To vanquish with those eyes." Then, serious,
                            That she nor smiled nor winced, nor anything
                            "Your pardon will be to me as a shower
                            Of gracious rain unto a panting drouth."
                            So bowed in humblest reverence; at which
                            The damsel, turning to her followers,
                            Laughed musically,"See! he proves my words!"
                            Whereat the others joined with inward glee
                            Her pealing mirth; and in the merriment
                            The knights chimed, too, and he, the vanquished one,
                            Till all the wood rang as at hunting-tide
                            When bugle-rumors float about the air
                            And echoes leap and revel in delight.
                            Then spake the vanquished knight, with mental eye
                            Sweeping the vantage-ground that chance had gained,
                            
                            "Your further pardon, lady: Since the name
                            Of Raelus fell from those lips of thine,
                            We fain would know of him. He led us here,
                            And as he went the way wherefrom your path
                            Emerges, haply you may tell us where
                            He may be found?"
                            "What! Raelus?" she cried,
                            "He comes with you?The brave Sir Raelus?
                            That mighty champion?that gallant knight?
                            That peerless wonder of all nobleness?
                            Then proud am I to greet ye, knowin that;
                            And, certes, had I known of it ere now,
                            Then had I proffered you more courtesy
                            And told you, ere the asking, that he bides
                            The coming of his friends a league from this,
                            Hard by a reedy mere, where in high tune
                            We left him singing, nigh an hour agone."
                            Then, as she lightly wheeled her horse about
                            To follow, gaily cried: "Tell Raelus
                            His cousin sends to him her sad farewells
                            And fond regrets, and kisses many as
                            His valorous deeds are numbered in her heart."
                            And with "Fair morrow to ye, gentle knights!"
                            Her steed's hooves struck the highway at a bound;
                            And dimly thro' the dust they saw her lead
                            Her fluttering cavalcade as recklessly
                            As might a queen of Araby, fleet-horsed,
                            Skim o'er the level sands of Syria.
                            So vanished. And the knights with one accord
                            Put foot in stirrup, and, with puzzled minds
                            
                            And many-channeled marvelings, filed in
                            The woody path, and fared them on and on
                            Thro' denser glooms, and ways more intricate;
                            Till, mystified at last and wholly lost,
                            They made full halt, and would have turned them back
                            But that a sudden voice brake on their ears
                            All piteous and wailing, as distressed:
                            And, following these cries, they sharply came
                            Upon an open road that circled round
                            A reedy flat and sodden tract of sedge,
                            Moated with stagnant water, crusted thick
                            Entangled, and blind bubbles bulging up
                            And bursting where from middle way upshot
                            A tree-trunk, with its gnarled and warty hands
                            As tho' upheld to clutch at sliding snakes
                            Or nip the wet wings of the dragon-fly.
                            Here gazing, lo! they saw their comrade, he
                            That had gone on with Raelus; and he
                            Was tugging to fling back into its place
                            A heavy log that once had spanned the pool
                            And made a footway to the sedgy flat
                            Whence came the bitter wailing cries they heard.
                            Then hastened they to join him in his task;
                            But, panting, as they asked of Raelus,
                            All winded with his work, yet jollier
                            Than meadow-lark at morn, he sent his voice
                            In such a teittcring of merriment,
                            The wail of sorrow died and laugher strewed
                            Its grave with melody.
                            
                            "O Raelus!
                            Rare Raelus!" he cried and clapped his hands,
                            And even in the weeds that edged the pool
                            Fell wrestling with his mirth."Why, Raelus,"
                            He said, when he at last could speak again,
                            "Drew magnet-likeyou know that talk of his,
                            And so, adhesive, did I cling and cling
                            Until I found us in your far advance,
                            And, hidden in the wood, I stayed to say
                            "Twas better we should bide your coming. 'No.'
                            Then on again; and still a second time
                            Shall we not bide their coming?' 'No!' he said;
                            And on again, until the third; and 'No
                            We'll push a little further.' As we did;
                            And, sudden, came upon an open glade
                            There to the northward,by a thicket bound:
                            Then he dismounted, giving me his rein,
                            And, charging me to keep myself concealed,
                            And if he were not back a certain time
                            To ride for you and search where he had gone,
                            lie crossed the opening and passed from sight
                            Within the thicket. I was curious:
                            And so, dismounting, tethered our two steeds
                            And followed him; and, creeping warily,
                            Came on him whereunseen of himI saw
                            Him pause before the cave himself described
                            Before us yesternoon. And here he put
                            His fingers to his lips and gave a call
                            Bird-like and quavering: at which a face,
                            As radiant as summer sun at morn,
                            Parted the viny curtains of the cave;
                            And then, a moment later, came in view
                            
                            Might understand. 'What! dare you come again?'
                            As, lifting up her eyes all flashingly,
                            She scorched him with a look of hate.'Begone!
                            Or have youtraitor, villain, knave, and cur,
                            Bro't minions of the law to carry out
                            The vengeance of your whimpering jealousy?'
                            Then Raelus, all cowering before
                            Her queenly anger, faltered: 'Hear me yet;
                            I do not threaten. But your loveyour love!
                            O give me that. I know you pure as dew:
                            Your love! Your love! The smile that has gone out
                            And left my soul a midnight of despair!
                            Your love or life! For I have even now
                            Your stronghold girt about with certain doom
                            If you but waver in your choice.your love!'
                            At which, as quick as tho't, leapt on him there
                            A strong man from the covert of the gloom;
                            And others, like to him. from here and there
                            Came scurrying. I, turning, would have fled,
                            But found myself as suddenly beset
                            And tied and tumbled there with Raelns.
                            And him they haltered by his squirming heels
                            Until he did confess such villainy
                            As made me wonder if his wits were sound
                            Confessed himself a renegadea thief
                            Ay, even one of them, save that he knew
                            Not that nice honor even thieves may claim
                            Among themselves.And so ran on thro' such
                            A catalogue of littlenesses, I
                            For deafest shame had even stopped my ears
                            But that my wrists were lockt. And when he came
                            
                            To his confession of his lie at court,
                            By which was gained our knightly sympathy
                            And valiant service on this fools' crusade,
                            I seemed to feel the redness of my blush
                            Soak thro' my very soul. There I brake in:
                            Fair lady and most gallant,to my shame
                            Do I admit we have been duped by such
                            An ingrate as this bundled lump of flesh
                            That I am helpless to rise up and spurn:
                            Unbind me, and I promise such amends
                            As knightly hands may deign to wreak upon
                            A thing so vile as he.' Then, laughing, she:
                            'First tell me, by your honor, where await
                            Your knightly brothers and my enemies.'
                            To which I answered, truthfully, I knew
                            Not where you lingered, but not close at hand
                            I was assured. Then all abrupt, she turned:
                            'Get every one within! We ride at once!'
                            And scarce a dozen minutes ere they came
                            Outpouring from the cave in such a guise
                            As made me smile from very wonderment,
                            From head to heel in woman's dress they came,
                            Clad richly, too, and trapped and tricked withal
                            As maidenly, but in the face and hand,
                            As ever damsels flock at holiday.
                            Then were their chargers bro't, caparisoned
                            In keeping; and they mounted, lifting us,
                            Still bounden, with much jest and mockery
                            Of soft caress and wanton blandishments,
                            As tho' they were of sex their dress declared.
                            And so they carried us until they came
                            Upon the road there as it nicks the copse;
                            
                            And so drew rein, dismounted, leaving some
                            To guard their horses; hurried us across
                            This footway to the middle of the flat.
                            Here Raelus was bounden to a tree,
                            Stript to the waist; my fetters cut, and then
                            A long, keen switch put in my hand, and 'Strike!
                            Strike as all duty bids you!' said the queen.
                            And so I did, with right good will at first;
                            Till, softened as I heard the wretch's prayers
                            Of anguish, I at last withheld my hand.
                            'What! tiring?' chirpt the queen: 'Give me the
                                stick!'
                            And swish, and swish, and mercy how it rained!
                            Then all the others, forming circlewise,
                            Danced round and round the howling wretch, and jeered
                            And japed at him, and mocked and scoffed at him,
                            And spat upon him. And I turned away
                            And hid my face; then raised it pleadingly:
                            Nor would they listen my appeal for him;
                            But left him so, and thonged and took me back
                            Across the mere, and drew the bridge, that none
                            Might go to him, and carried me with them
                            And back I turned, tho" loath, to succor him."
                            And even as he ceased they heard the wail
                            And Raelus they found, and without word
                            They loosed him. And he brake away and ran
                            As runs a lie the truth is hard upon.
                        
                        
                            Thus did it fare with Raelus. And they
                            Who knew of it said naught at court of it,
                            Nor from that day spake ever of him once,
                            Nor heard of him again, nor cared to hear.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        My Bachelor Chum
                        
                            O A corpulent man is my bachelor chum.
                            With a neck apoplectic and thick
                            An abdomen on him as big as a drum,
                            And a fist big enough for the stick;
                            With a walk that for grace is clear out of the case,
                            And a wobble uncertain-as though
                            His little bow-legs had forgotten the pace
                            That in youth used to favor him so.
                        
                        
                            He is forty, at least; and the lop of his head
                            Is a bald and a glittering thing;
                            And his nose and his two chubby cheeks are as red
                            As three rival roses in spring.
                            His mouth is a grin with the corners tucked in,
                            And his laugh is so breezy and bright
                            That it ripples his features and dimples his chin
                            With a billowy look of delight.
                        
                        
                            He is fond of declaring he "don't care a straw"
                            That "the ills of a bachelor's life
                            Are blisses compared with a mother-in-law,
                            And a boarding-school miss for a wife!"
                            So he smokes and he drinks, and he jokes and he winks,
                            And he dines and he wines, all alone,
                            With a thumb ever ready to snap as he thinks
                            Of the comforts he never has known.
                        
                        
                            But up in his den(Ah, my bachelor chum!) 
                            I have sat with him there in the gloom,
                            When the laugh of bis lips died away to become
                            But a phanton of irth in the room.
                        
                        
                        
                            And to look on him there you would love him, for all
                            His ridiculous ways, and be dumb
                            As the little girl-face that smiles down from the wall
                            On the tears of my bachelor chum.
                        
                    
                    
                        An Old Friend
                        
                            HEY, Old Midsummer! arc you here again,
                            With all your harvest-store of olden joys,
                            Vast overhanging meadow-lands of rain,
                            And drowsy dawns, and noons when golden grain
                            Nods in the sun, and lazy truant boys
                            Drift ever listlessly adown the day,
                            Too full of joy to rest, and dreams to play.
                        
                        
                            The same old Summer, with the same old smile
                            Beaming upon us in the same old way
                            We knew in childhood! Though a weary while
                            Since that far time, yet memories reconcile
                            The heart with odorous breaths of clover-hay;
                            And again I hear the doves, and the sun streams through
                            The old barn-door just as it used to do.
                        
                        
                            And so it seems like welcoming a friend
                            An old, old friend, upon his coming home
                            From some far countrycoming home to spend
                            Long, loitering days with me: And I extend
                            My hand in rapturous glee:And so you've come!
                            Ho. I'm so glad! Come in and take a chair:
                            Well, this is just like old times, I declare!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Edgar Wilson Nye
                        FEBRUARY 22 1896
                        
                            THE saddest silence falls when Laughter lays
                            Finger on lip, and falteringly breaks
                            The glad voice into gting minor shakes
                            And quavers, lorn as airs the wind-harp plays
                            At urge of drearest Winter's bleakest days:
                            A troubled hush, in which all hope forsakes
                            Us, and the yearing upstrained vision aches
                            With tears that drown e'en heaven from our gaze.
                            Such silence-after such glad merriment!
                            O prince of halest humor, wit and cheer!
                            Could you yet speak to us, I doubt not we
                            Should catch your voice, still blithely eloquent
                            Above all murmurings of sorrow here,
                            Calling your love back to us laughingly.
                        
                    
                    
                        I Smoke My Pipe
                        
                            I CAN'T extend to every friend
                            In need a helping hand
                            No matter though I wish it so,
                            'Tis not as Fortune planned;
                            But haply may I fancy they
                            Are men of different stripe
                            Than others think who hint and wink,
                            And so-I smoke my pipe!
                        
                        
                            A golden coal to crown the bowl
                            My pipe and I alone,
                            I sit and muse with idler views
                            Perchance than I should own:
                            
                            It might be worse to own the purse
                            Whose glutted bowels gripe
                            In little qualms of stinted alms;
                            And so I smoke my pipe.
                        
                        
                            And if inclined to moor my mind
                            And cast the anchor Hope,
                            A puff of breath will put to death
                            The morbid misanthrope
                            That lurks inside-as errors hide
                            In standing forms of type
                            To mar at birth some line of worth;
                            And so I smoke my pipe.
                        
                        
                            The subtle stings misfortune flings
                            Can give me little pain
                            When my narcotic spell has wrought
                            This quiet in my brain:
                            When I can waste the past in taste
                            So luscious and so ripe
                            That like an elf I hug myself;
                            And so I smoke my pipe.
                        
                        
                            And wrapped in shrouds of drifting clouds
                            I watch the phantom's flight,
                            Till alien eyes from Paradise
                            Smile on me as I write:
                            And I forgive the wrongs that live,
                            As lightly as I wipe
                            Away the tear that rises here;
                            And so I smoke my pipe.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Dave Field
                        
                            LET me write you a rune of a rhyme, Dave Field,
                            For the sake of the past we knew,
                            When we were vagrants along the road,
                            Yet glad as the skies were blue;
                            When we struck hands, as in alien lands
                            Old friend to old friend is revealed,
                            And each hears a tongue that he understands,
                            And a laugh that he loves, Dave Field.
                        
                        
                            Ho! let me chant you a stave, Dave Field,
                            Of those indolent days of ours,
                            With our chairs atilt at the wayside inn
                            Or our backs in the woodland flowers;
                            With your pipe alit, and the breath of it
                            Like a nimbus about your head,
                            While I sipped, like a monk, of your winey wit,
                            With my matins all unsaid.
                        
                        
                            Let me drone you a dream of the world, Dave Field,
                            And the glory it held for us
                            You with your pencil-and-canvas dreams,
                            And I with my pencil thus;
                            Yet with never a thought of the prize we sought,
                            Being at best but a pain,
                            As we looked from the heights and our blurred eyes caught
                            The scenes of our youth again
                        
                        
                            O, let me sing you a song, Dave Field,
                            Jolly and hale, but yet
                            With a quaver of pathos along the lines,
                            And the throb of a vain regret;
                        
                        
                        
                            A sigh for the dawn long dead and gone,
                            But a laugh for the dawn concealed,
                            As bravely a while we still toil on
                            Toward the topmost heights, Dave Field.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Young Old Man
                        VOLUNTARY BY ARTLESS "LITTLE BROTHER"
                        
                            MAMMA is a widow: There's only us three
                            Our pretty Mamma, little sister, and me:
                            And we've come to live in this new neighborhood
                            Where all seems so quiet, old-fashioned and good.
                            Mamma sits and sews at the window, and I
                            I'm out at the gate when an old man goes by
                            Such a lovely old man,though I can't tell you why,
                            Unless it's his greeting"Good morning!
                            Good morning! good morning!" the old man will say,
                            "Fine bracing weather we're having to-day!
                            And how's little brother
                            And sisterand mother?
                            So dear to each other!
                            Good morning!"
                        
                        
                            The old man goes by, in his glossy high-hat,
                            And stripe-trousers creased, and all turned-tip, at that,
                            And his glancing nose-glassesand pleasantest eyes,
                            As he smiles on me, always in never surprise:
                            And though his mustache is as white as the snow,
                            He wears it waxed out and all pointed, you know,
                            And gloves, and high collar and bright, jaunty bow,
                            And stylish umbrella"Good morning!
                            
                            Good morning! good morning!" the old men will say,
                            "Fine falling weather we're promised to-day!
                            And how's little brother
                            And sister-and mother?
                            So font of each other!
                            Good morning!"
                        
                        
                            It's Christmas!it's Christmas! and oh, but we're gay!
                            The postman's been here, and Ma says, "Run and play:
                            You must leave your Mamma to herself for a while!"
                            And so sweet is her voice, and so tender her smile!
                            And she looks so pretty and happy and-Well! 
                            She's just too delicious for language to tell!
                            So Sis hugs her more-and I answer the bell 
                            And there in the doorway"Good morning!
                            Good morning! good morning!" the old man will say,
                            Fine Christmas weather we're having to-day!
                            And how 's little brother
                            Dear sister-er, ruther
                            Why, here is your mother. . .
                            Good morning!"
                        
                    
                    
                        Lockerbie Fair
                        
                            O THE Lockerbie Fair!-Have you beard of its fame
                            And its fabulous riches, too rare for a name!
                            The gold of the noon of the June-time refined
                            To the Orient-Night, till the eyes and the mind
                            Are dazed with the sights, in the earth and the air,
                            Of the opulent splendors of Lockerbie Fair.
                        
                        
                        
                            What more fortunate fate might to mortal befall,
                            Midst the midsummer beauty and bloom of it all,
                            Than to glit with the moon o'er the rapturous scene
                            And twink with the stars as they laughingly lean
                            O'er the luminous revel and glamour and glare
                            Fused in one dazzling glory at Lockerbie Fair.
                        
                        
                            The Night, like a queen in her purple and lace,
                            With her diamonded brow, and imperious grace,
                            As she leads her fair votaries, train upon train,
                            A-dance thro' the feasts of this mystic domain
                            To the mandolin's twang, and the warble and blare
                            Of voice, flute and bugle at Lockerbie Fair.
                        
                        
                            All strange, ever-changing, enchanted delights
                            Found now in this newer Arabian Nights,
                            Where each lovely maid is a Princess, and each
                            Lucky swain an Aladdinall treasures in reach
                            Of the "lamps" and the "rings"-and with Genii to spare,
                            Simply waiting your orders, at Lockerbie Fair.
                        
                    
                    
                        Ylladmar
                        
                            HER hair was, oh, so dense a blur
                            Of darkness, midnight envied her;
                            And stars grew dimmer in the skies
                            To see the glory of her eyes;
                            And all the summer-rain of light
                            That showered from the moon at night
                            Fell o'er her features as the gloom
                            Of twilight o'er a lily-bloom.
                        
                        
                        
                            The crimson fruitage of her lips
                            Was ripe and lush with sweeter wine
                            Than burgundy or muscadine
                            Or vintage that the burgher sips
                            And I to taste of it could well
                            Believe my heart a crucible
                            Of molten love-and I could feel
                            The drunken soul within me reel
                            And rock and stagger till it fell.
                        
                        
                            And do you wonder that I bowed
                            Before her splendor as a cloud
                            Of storm the golden-sandaled sun
                            Had set his conquering foot upon?
                            And did she will it, I could lie
                            In writhing rapture down and die
                            A death so full of precious pain
                            I'd waken up to die again.
                        
                    
                    
                        "Go Read Your Book!"
                        
                            HOW many times that grim old phrase
                            Has silenced me, in childish days!
                            And nowas then it did
                            And dominant, rings,and I hear,
                            And do as I am bid.
                        
                        
                            "Go read your book!" my good old sire
                            Commanded, in affected ire,
                            
                            When I, with querying look
                            And speech, dared vex his studious mind
                            With idle words of any kind.
                            And so I read my book.
                        
                        
                            Though seldom, in that wisest age,
                            Did I discern on Wisdom's page
                            More than the task: That led
                            At least to thinking, and at last
                            To reading less, and not so fast
                            And longing as I read.
                        
                        
                            And, lo! in gracious time, I grew
                            To love a book all through and through!
                            With yearning eyes I look
                            On any volume,old, maybe,
                            Or new-'t is meat and drink to me 
                            And so I read my book.
                        
                        
                            Old dog's-eared Readers, scarred and inked
                            With school-boy hatred, long extinct;
                            Old Histories that bored
                            Me worst of all the school;old, worn
                            Arithmetics, frayed, ripped, and torn
                            Now Ye are all adored.
                        
                        
                            And likewise I revere and praise
                            My sire, as now, with vainest gaze
                            And hearing, still I look
                            For the old face so grave yet 
                            Nay, still I see, and still I hear!
                            And so I read my book.
                        
                        
                        
                            Next even to my nearest kin 
                            My wifemy children romping in
                            From school to ride my knee,
                            I love a book, and dispossess
                            My lap of it with loathfulness,
                            For all their love of me.
                        
                        
                            For, grave or gay the book, it takes
                            Me as an equalcalms, or makes
                            Me, laughing, overlook
                            My little selfforgetful all
                            Of being so exceeding small.
                            And so I read my book.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Tribute of His Home
                        BENJAMIN HAERISON, INDIANAPOLIS MARCH 14, 1901
                        
                            BOWED, midst a universal grief that makes
                            Columbia's self a stricken mourner, cast
                            In tears beneath the old Flag at half-mast,
                            A sense of glory rouses us and breaks
                            The dew from our drenched eyes, that smile at last
                            In childish prideas though the great man passed
                            To his most high reward for our poor sakes
                            Loved of all menwe museyet ours he was
                            Choice of the Nation's mighty brotherhood
                            Her soldier, statesman, ruler.Ay, but then,
                            We knew himlong before the world's applause
                            And afteras a neighbor, kind and good,
                            Our common friend and fellow-citizen.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Songs of a Life-Time
                        MRS SARAH T BOLTON'S POEMS
                        1897
                        
                            SONGS of a Life-Timewith the Singer's head
                            A silvery glory shining midst the green
                            Of laurel-leaves that bind a brow serene
                            And godlike as was ever garlanded.
                            So seems her glory who herein has wed
                            Melodious Beauty to the strong of mien
                            And kingly Speech-made kinglier by this queen
                            In lilied cadence voiced and raimented.
                            Songs of a Life Time; by your own sweet stress
                            Of singing were ye loved of bygone years
                            As through our day ye are, and shall be hence.
                            Till fame
                                divine marks your melodiousness
                            And on the Singer's lips, with smiles and tears,
                            Seals there the kiss of love and reverence.
                        
                    
                    
                        Unless
                        
                            WHO has not wanted does not guess
                            What plenty is.-Who has not groped
                            In depths of doubt and hopelessness
                            Has never truly hoped.
                            Unless, sometimes, a shadow falls
                            Upon his mirth, and veils his sight,
                            And from the darkness drifts the light
                            Of love at intervals.
                        
                        
                        
                            And that most dear of everything,
                            I hold, is love; and who can sit
                            With lightest heart and laugh and sing,
                            Knows not the worth of it 
                            Unless, in some strange throng, perchance,
                            He feels how thrilling sweet it is,
                            One yearning look that answers his
                            The troth of glance and glance.
                        
                        
                            Who knows not pain, knows not, alas!
                            What pleasure is.Who knows not of
                            The bitter cup that will not pass,
                            Knows not the taste of love.
                            O souls that thirst, and hearts that fast,
                            And natures faint with famishing,
                            God lift and lead and safely bring
                            You to your own at last!
                        
                    
                    
                        Envoy
                        
                            BE our fortunes as they may,
                            Touched with loss or sorrow,
                            Saddest eyes that weep to-day
                            May be glad to-morrow.
                        
                        
                            Yesterday the rain was here,
                            And the winds were blowing
                            Sky and earth and atmosphere
                            Brimmed and overflowing.
                        
                        
                        
                            But to-day the sun is out,
                            And the drear November
                            We were then so vexed about
                            Now we scarce remember.
                        
                        
                            Yesterday you lost a friend
                            Bless your heart and love it!
                            For you scarce could commprehend
                            All the aching of it;
                        
                        
                            But I sing to you and say:
                            Let the lost friend sorrow
                            Here's another come to-day,
                            Others may to-morrow.
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    MORNING
                    
                        Morning
                        
                            BREATH of Morningbreath of May
                            With your zest of yesterday
                            And crisp, balmy freshness, smite
                            Our old hearts with Youth's delight.
                        
                        
                            Tilt the cap of Boyhoodyea,
                            Where no "forelock" waves, to-day,
                            Back, in breezy, cool excess,
                            Stroke it with the old caress.
                        
                        
                            Let us see as we have seen
                            Where all paths are dewy-green,
                            And all human-kind are kin
                            Let us be as we have been!
                        
                    
                    
                        The Great God Pan
                        
                            "What was he doing, the great god Pan?"
                        
                        
                            Mrs. Browning.
                        
                        
                            OPAN is the goodliest god, I wist,
                            Of all of the lovable gods that be!
                            For his two strong hands were the first to twist
                            From the depths of the current, through spatter and mist,
                            The long-hushed reeds that he pressed in glee
                            To his murmurous mouth, as he chuckled and kissed
                            Their souls into melody.
                        
                        
                        
                            And the wanton winds are in love with Pan:
                            They loll in the shade with him day by day;
                            And the bedtimes as beast, and betimes as man,
                            They love him as only the wild winds can,
                            Or sleeking the coat of his limbs one way,
                            Or brushing his brow with the locks they fan
                            To the airs he loves to play.
                        
                        
                            And he leans by the river, in gloom and gleam,
                            Blowing his reeds as the breezes blow
                            His cheeks puffed out, and his eyes in a dream,
                            And his hoof-tips, over the leaves in the stream,
                            Tapping the time of the tunes that flow
                            As sweet as the drowning echoes seem
                            To his rollicking wraith below.
                        
                    
                    
                        His Heart of Constant Youth
                        
                            "And I never hear the drums beat
                            that I do not think of him."
                            Major Charles L. Holstein.
                        
                        
                            TURN through his life, each word and deed
                            Now sacred as it is
                            How helped and soothed we are to read
                            A history like his!
                        
                        
                            To turn the years, in far review,
                            And find himas To-day
                            In orchard-lands of bloom and dew
                            Again a boy at play:
                        
                        
                        
                            The jeweled grassthe sumptuous trees
                            And flower and fragrance there,
                            With song of birds and drone of bees
                            And Springtime everywhere:
                        
                        
                            Turn any chapter that we will,
                            Read any page, in sooth,
                            We find his glad heart owning still
                            The freshness of his youth.
                        
                        
                            With such a heart of tender care
                            He loved his own, and thus
                            His home was, to the loved ones there,
                            A temple glorious.
                        
                        
                            And, ever youthful, still his love
                            Enshrined, all manifold,
                            The peopleall the poor thereof,
                            The helpless and the old.
                        
                        
                            And little childrenAh! to them
                            His love was as the sun
                            Wrought in a magic diadem
                            That crowned them, every one.
                        
                        
                            And every young his reference for
                            The laws: like morning-dew
                            He shone as counsel, orator,
                            And clear logician, too.
                        
                        
                        
                            And, as a boy, his gallant soul
                            Made answer to the trill
                            Of battle-trumpet and the roll
                            Of drums that echo still:
                        
                        
                            His comradesas his country, dear
                            They knew, and ever knew
                            That buoyant, boyish love, sincere
                            As truth itself is true:
                        
                        
                            He marched with them, in tireless tramp
                            Laughed, cheered and lifted up
                            The battle-chorus, and in camp
                            Shared blanket, pipe and cup.
                        
                        
                            His comrades!. . . When you meet again,
                            In anguish though you bow,
                            Remember how he loved you then,
                            And how he loves you now.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        The Soldier
                        THE DEDICATION OF THE SOLDIERS' AND SAILORS' MONUMENT, INDIANAPOLIS, MAY 15, 1902
                        
                            THE Soldier!meek the title, yet divine:
                            Therefore, with reverence, as with wild acclaim,
                            We fain would honor in exalted line
                            The glorious lineage of the glorious name:
                            The Soldier.Lo, he ever was and is,
                            Our Country's high custodian, by right
                            Of patriot blood that brims that heart of his
                            With fiercest love, yet honor infinite.
                        
                        
                        
                            The Soldierwithin whose inviolate care
                            The Nation takes repose,her inmost fane
                            Of Freedom ever has its guardian there,
                            As have her forts and fleets on land and main:
                            The Heavenward Banner, as its ripples stream
                            In happy winds, or float in languid flow,
                            Through silken meshes ever sifts the gleam
                            Of sunshine on its Sentinel below.
                        
                        
                            The Soldier!Why, the very utterance
                            Is musicas of rallying bugles, blent
                            With blur of drums and cymbals and the chants
                            Of battle-hymns that shake the continent!
                            The thunder-chorus of a world Is stirred
                            To awful, universal jubilee,
                            Yet ever through it, pure and sweet, are heard
                            The prayers of Womanhood, and Infancy.
                        
                        
                            Even as a fateful tempest sudden loosed
                            Upon our senses, so our thoughts are blown
                            Back where The Soldier battled, nor refused
                            A grave all nameless in a clime unknown.
                            The Soldierthough, perchance, worn, old and gray;
                            The Soldierthough, perchance, the merest lad,
                            The Soldierthough he gave his life away,
                            Hearing the shout of "Victory," was glad;
                        
                        
                            Aye, glad and grateful, that in such a cause
                            His veins were drained at Freedom's holy shrine
                            Rechristening the landas first it was,
                            His blood poured thus in sacramental sign
                        
                        
                        
                            Of new baptism of the hallowed name
                            "My Country"now on every lip once more
                            And blest of God with still enduring fame.
                            This thought even then The Soldier gloried o'er
                        
                        
                            The dying eyes upraised in rapture there,
                            As, haply, he remembered how a breeze
                            Once swept his boyish brow and tossed his hair,
                            Under the fresh bloom of the orchard-trees
                            When his heart hurried, in some wistful haste
                            Of ecstasy, and his quick breath was wild
                            And balmy-sharp and chilly-sweet to taste,
                            And he towered godlike, though a trembling child!
                        
                        
                            Again, through luminous mists, he saw the skies'
                            Far fields white-tented; and in gray and blue
                            And dazzling gold, he saw vast armies rise
                            And fuse in firefrom which, in swiftest view,
                            The Old Flag soared, and friend and foe as one
                            Blent in an instant's vivid mirage. . .Then
                            The eyes closed smiling on the sun smiling sun
                            That changed the seer to a child again.
                        
                        
                            And, even so, The Soldier slept.Our own!
                            The Soldier of our plaudits, flowers and tears,
                            O this memorial of bronze and stone
                            His love shall outlast this a thousand years!
                            Yet, as the towering symbol bids us do 
                            With soul saluting, as salutes the hand,
                            We answer as The Soldier answered to
                            The Captain's high command.
                        
                        
                    
                    
                        The Little Woman
                        
                            MY little woman, of you I sing
                            With a fervor all divine,
                            For I know the clasp of the hands that cling
                            So closely here in mine.
                        
                        
                            Though the rosy palms I used to press
                            Are faded and worn with care,
                            And tremulous is the old caress
                            That nestles in my hair,
                        
                        
                            Your heart to me is a changeless page;
                            I have read it bit by bit,
                            From the dawn of love to the dusk of age,
                            And the tale is Holy Writ.
                        
                        
                            Fold your eyes,for the twilight bends
                            As a mother o'er her child
                            Even as when, in the long-lost Then,
                            You bent o'er ours and smiled. . . .
                        
                        
                            (Nay, but I spoke all unaware!
                            See! I am kneeling, too,
                            And with mine, dear, is the rose's prayer,
                            With a blur of tears and dew.)
                        
                        
                            But O little woman, I often grieve,
                            As I think of the vanished years
                            And trace the course of the cares that leave
                            Your features dim with tears:
                        
                        
                        
                            I often grieve, for the frowns I wore
                            When the world seemed all untrue,
                            When my hard, proud heart was sick and sore
                            And would not come to you!
                        
                        
                            I often grieve, as I hold your hand
                            As I hold your hand to-night,
                            That it takes so long to understand
                            The lesson of love aright!
                        
                        
                            But sing the song that I taught you once,
                            Dear little woman, as then
                            
                            Away far back in the golden months;
                            Sing me the song again!
                        
                        
                            For, as under the stars we loved of yore
                            When the nights of love were long,
                            Your poor, pale lips grow glad once more
                            And I kiss them into song:
                        
                        
                            
                                My little woman's hands are fair
                            
                            
                                As even the moonflowers be
                            
                            
                                When fairies creep in their depths and sleep
                            
                            
                                Till the sun leaps out o' the sea.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                And O her eyes, they are spheres of light
                            
                            
                                So brighter than stars are they,
                            
                            
                                The brightest day is the darkest night
                            
                            
                                When my little woman's away.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            
                                For my little woman has ever a tear
                            
                            
                                And a sigh when I am sad;
                            
                            
                                And I have a thousand smiles for her
                            
                            
                                When my little woman is glad.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                But my little women is strong and brave
                            
                            
                                For all of her tears and sighs,
                            
                            
                                Her stanch little heart knows how to behave
                            
                            
                                Whenever the storms arise.
                            
                        
                        
                            My little woman, of you I sing
                            With a fervor all divine,
                            For I know the clasp of the hands that cling
                            So closely here in mine.
                        
                    
                    
                        America
                        BUFFALO, NEW YORK,
                                SEPTEMBER 14, 1901
                        O Thou, AmericaMessiah of Nations!
                        
                            I
                            IN the need that bows us thus
                            America!
                            Shape a mighty song for us
                            America!
                            Song to whelm a hundred years'
                            Roar of wars and rain of tears
                            'Neath a world's triumphant cheers:
                            America! America!
                        
                        
                        
                            II
                            Lift the trumpet to thy mouth,
                            America!
                            East and West and North and South
                            America!
                            Call us round the dazzling shrine
                            Of the starry old ensign
                            New-baptized in blood of thine,
                            America! America!
                        
                        
                            III
                            Dying eyes through pitying mists,
                            America!
                            See the Assassin's shackled wrists,
                            America!
                            Patient eyes that turn their sight
                            From all blackening crime and blight
                            Still toward Heaven's holy light
                            America! America!
                        
                        
                            IV
                            High o'erlooking sea and land,
                            America!
                            Trustfully with outheld hand,
                            America!
                            Thou dost welcome all in quest
                            Of thy freedom, peace and rest
                            Every exile is thy guest,
                            America! America!
                        
                        
                        
                            V
                            Thine a universal love,
                            America!
                            Thine the cross and crown thereof,
                            America!
                            Aid us, then, to sing thy worth:
                            God hath builded, from thy birth,
                            The first nation of the earth
                            America! America!
                        
                    
                    
                        General Lew Wallace
                        FEBRUARY 15, 1905
                        
                            NAY, Death, thou mightiest of all
                            Dread conquerorsthou dreadest chief,
                            Thy heavy hand can here but fall
                            Light as the Autumn leaf:
                            As vainly, too, its weight is laid
                            Upon the warrior's knightly sword;
                            Still through the charge and cannonade
                            It flashes for the Lord.
                        
                        
                            In forumas in battlefield
                            His voice rang for the truththe right
                            Keyed with the shibboleth that pealed
                            His Soul forth to the fight:
                            The inspiration of his pen
                            Glowed as a star, and lit anew
                            The faces and the hearts of men
                            Watching, the long night through.
                        
                        
                        
                            A destiny ordaineddivine
                            It seemed to hosts of those who saw
                            His rise since youth and marked the line
                            Of his ascent with awe:
                            From the now-storied little town
                            That gave him birth and worth, behold,
                            Unto this day of his renown,
                            His sword and word of gold.
                        
                        
                            Serving the Land he loved so well
                            Hailed midsea or in foreign port,
                            Or in strange-bannered citadel
                            Or Oriental Court, 
                            Hehonored for his Nation's sake,
                            And loved and honored for his ownmdsah;
                            Hath seen his Flag in glory shake
                            Above the Pagan Throne.
                        
                    
                    
                        A Humble Singer
                        
                            A MODEST singer, with meek soul and heart,
                            Sat, yearning that his art
                            Might but inspire and suffer him to sing
                            Even the simplest thing.
                        
                        
                            And as he sang thus humbly, came a Voice:
                            "All mankind shall rejoice,
                            Hearing thy pure and simple melody
                            sing on immortally."
                        
                        
                    
                    
                        The Hoosier in Exile
                        
                            THE Hoosier in Exilea toast
                            That by its very sound
                            Moves us, at first, to tears almost,
                            And sympathy profound;
                            But musing for a little space,
                            We lift the glass and smile,
                            And poise it with a royal grace
                            The Hoosier in Exile!
                        
                        
                            The Hoosier in Exile, forsooth!
                            For thought his steps may roam
                            The earth's remotest bounds, in truth
                            His heart is ever home!
                            O loyal still to every tie
                            Of native fields and streams,
                            His boyhood friends, and paths whereby
                            He finds them in his dreams!
                        
                        
                            Though he may fare the thronging maze
                            Of alien city streets,
                            His thoughts are set in grassy ways
                            And woodlands' cool retreats;
                            Forever, clear and sweet above
                            The traffic's roar and din,
                            In breezy groves he hears the dove,
                            And is at peace within.
                        
                        
                            When newer friends and generous hands
                            Advance him; he returns
                            Due gratefulness, yet, pausing, stands
                            As one who strangely yearns
                        
                        
                        
                            To pay still further thanks, but sighs
                            To think he knows not where,
                            Tilllike as lifewith misty eyes
                            He sees his mother there.
                        
                        
                            The Hoosier in Exile? Ah, well,
                            Accept the phrase, but know
                            The Hoosier heart must ever dwell
                            Where orchard blossoms grow
                            The whitest, apples reddest, and,
                            In cornslands, mile on mile,
                            The old homesteads forever stand
                            "The Hoosier in Exile!"
                        
                    
                    
                        Longfellow
                        1807-FEBRUARY 271907
                        
                            O GENTLEST kinsman of Humanity!
                            Thy love hath touched all hearts, even as thy Song
                            Hath touched all chords of music that belong
                            To the quavering heaven-strung harp of harmony:
                            Thou hast made man to feel and hear and see
                            Divinely;made the weak to be the strong;
                            By thy melodious magic, changed the wrong
                            To changeless rightand joyed and wept as we.
                            Worlds listen, lulled and solaced at the spell
                            That folds and holds ussoul and body, too,
                            As though thy songs, as loving arms in stress
                            Of sympathy and trust ineffable,
                            Where thrown about us thus by one who knew
                            Our common human need of kindliness.
                        
                        
                    
                    
                        The Quest of the Fathers
                        
                            WHAT were our Forefathers trying to find
                            When they weighed anchor, that desperate hour
                            They turned from home, and the warning wind
                            Sighed in the sails of the old Mayflower?
                            What sought they that could compensate
                            Their hearts for the loved ones left behind
                            The household group at the glowing grate?
                            What were our Forefathers trying to find?
                        
                        
                            What were they trying to find more dear
                            Than their native land and its annals old,
                            Its throneits churchand its worldly cheer
                            Its princely state, and its hoarded gold?
                            What more dear than the mounds of green
                            There o'er the brave sires, slumbering long?
                            What more fair than the rural scene
                            What more sweet than the throstle's song?
                        
                        
                            Faces pallid, but sternly set,
                            Lips locked close, as in voiceless prayer,
                            And eyes with never a teardrop wet
                            Even the tenderest woman's there!
                            But O the light from the soul within,
                            As each spake each with a flashing mind
                            As the lightning speaks to its kith and kin!
                            What were our Forefathers trying to find?
                        
                        
                            Argonauts of a godless day
                            Seers of visions, and dreamers vain!
                            Their ship's foot set in a pathless way,
                            The fogs, the mists, and the blinding rain!
                        
                        
                        
                            When the gleam of sun, and moon and star
                            Seemed lost so long they were half forgot
                            When the fixed eyes found nor near nor far,
                            And the night whelmed all, and the world was not.
                        
                        
                            And yet, befriended in some strange wise,
                            They groped their way in the storm and stress
                            Through whichthough their look found not the skies
                            The Lord's look found them
                                ne'ertheless
                            Found them, yea, in their piteous lot,
                            As they in their faith from the first divined
                            Found them, and favored themtoo. But what
                            What were our Forefathers trying to find?
                        
                        
                            Numb and agasp, with the frost for breath,
                            They came on a frozen shore, at last,
                            As bleak and drear as the coasts of death,
                            And yet their psalm o'er the wintry blast
                            Rang glad as though 'twere the chiming mirth
                            Of jubilant children landing there
                            Until o'er all of the icy earth
                            The snows seemed warm, as they knelt in prayer.
                        
                        
                            For, lo! they were close on the trail they sought:
                            In the sacred soil of the rights of men
                            They marked where the Master-hand had wrought;
                            And there they garnered and sowed again.
                            
                                Their landthen ours, as to-day it is,
                            With its flag of heaven's own light designed,
                            And God's vast love o'er all. . . .And this
                            
                            Is what our Forefathers were trying to find.
                        
                        
                    
                    
                        The Loveliness
                        
                            AH, what a long and loitering way
                            And ever-lovely way, in truth,
                            We travel on from day to day
                            Out of the realms of youth!
                        
                        
                            How eagerly we onward press
                            The lovely path that lures us still
                            With ever-changing loveliness
                            Of grassy vale and hill:
                        
                        
                            Of groves of May and morning-lands
                            Dew-diamonded and gemmed with bloom;
                            With amber streams and golden sands
                            And aisles of gleam and gloom;
                        
                        
                            Where lovely little Fairy-folk,
                            In careless ambush, pipe and call
                            From tousled ferns 'neath elm and oak
                            By shoal and waterfall:
                        
                        
                            Transparent even as the stream,
                            The gnarld prison-tree reveals
                            Its lovely Dryad in a dream
                            That scarce itself conceals;
                        
                        
                            The sudden redbird trips the sight
                            And tricks the earor doubtless we
                            With happy palms had clapped the Sprite
                            In new captivity.
                        
                        
                        
                            Onon, through all the gathering years,
                            Still gleams the loveliness, thougth seen
                            Through dusks of loss and mists of tears
                            That vainly intervene.
                        
                        
                            Time stints us not of lovely things
                            Old Age hath still a treasure-store,
                            The loveliness of songs and wings
                            And voices on before.
                        
                        
                            Andloveliness beyond all grace
                            Of lovely words to say or sing,
                            The loveliness of Hope's fair face
                            Forever brightening.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Country Editor
                        
                            A THOUGHTFUL brow and faceof sallow hue,
                            But warm with welcome, as we find him there,
                            Throned in his old misnomered "easy-chair,"
                            Scrawling a "leader," or a book-review;
                            Or staring through the roof for something new
                            With which to lift a wretched rival's hair,
                            Or blow some petty clique in empty air
                            And snap the party-ligaments in two.
                            A man he is deserving well of thee,
                            So be compassionateyea, pay thy dues,
                            Nor pamper him with thy spring-poetry,
                            But haul him wood, or something he can use;
                            And promptly act, nor tarry long when he
                            Gnaweth his pen and glareth rabidly.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        His Last Picture
                        
                            THE skies have grown troubled and dreary;
                            The clouds gather fold upon fold;
                            The hand of the painter is weary
                            And the pencil has dropped from its hold:
                            The easel still leans in the grasses,
                            And the palette beside on the lawn,
                            But the rain o'er the sketch as it passes
                            Weeps lowfor the artist is gone.
                        
                        
                            The flowers whose fairy-like features
                            Smiled up in his own as he wrought
                            And the leaves and the ferns were his teachers,
                            And the tints of the sun what they taught;
                            The low swinging vines, and the mosses
                            The shadow-filled boughs of the trees,
                            And the blossomy spray as it tosses
                            The song of the bird to the breeze.
                        
                        
                            The silent white laugh of the lily
                            He learned; and the smile of the rose
                            Glowed back on his spirit until he
                            Had mastered the blush as it glows;
                            And his pencil has touched and caressed them,
                            And kissed them, through breaths of perfume,
                            To the canvas that yet shall have blessed them
                            With years of unwithering bloom.
                        
                        
                            Then come!Leave his palette and brushes
                            And easel there, just as his hand
                            Has left them, ere through the dark hushes
                            Of death, to the shadowy land,
                        
                        
                        
                            He wended his way, happy-hearted
                            As when, in his youth, his rapt eyes
                            Swept the pathway of Fame where it started,
                            To where it wound into the skies.
                        
                    
                    
                        An Empty Nest
                        
                            I FIND an old deserted nest,
                            Half-hidden in the underbrush:
                            A withered leaf, in phantom jest,
                            Has nestled in it like a thrush
                            With weary, palpitating breast.
                        
                        
                            I muse as one in sad surprise
                            Who seeks his childhood's home once more,
                            And finds it in a strange disguise
                            Of vacant rooms and naked floor,
                            With sudden teardrops in his eyes.
                        
                        
                            An empty nest! It used to bear
                            A happy burden, when the breeze
                            Of summer rocked it, and a pair
                            Of merry tattlers told the trees
                            What treasures they had hidden there.
                        
                        
                            But Fancy, flitting through the gleams
                            Of youth's sunshiny atmosphere,
                            Has fallen in the past, and seems,
                            Like this poor leaflet nestled here,
                            A phantom guest of empty dreams.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        A Spring Song and a Later
                        
                            SHE sang a song of May for me,
                            Wherein once more I heard
                            The mirth of my glad infancy
                            The orchard's earliest bird
                            The joyous breeze among the trees
                            New-clad in leaf and bloom,
                            And there the happy honey-bees
                            In dewy gleam and gloom.
                        
                        
                            So purely, sweetly on the sense
                            Of heart and spirit fell
                            Her song of Spring, its influence
                            Still irresistible,
                            Commands me herewith eyes ablur
                            To mate her bright refrain,
                            Though I but shed a rhyme for her
                            As dim as Autumn rain.
                        
                    
                    
                        On Reading Dr. Henry Van Dyke's Volume of Poems--Music
                        
                            MUSIC!Yea, and the airs you play
                            Out of the faintest Far-Away
                            And the sweetest, too; and the dearest Here,
                            With its quavering voice but its bravest cheer
                            The prayer that aches to be all expressed
                            The kiss of love at its tenderest:
                            Musicmusic, with glad heart-throbs
                            Within it; and music with tears and sobs
                            Shaking it, as the startled soul
                            Is shaken at shriek of the fife and roll
                            Of the drums;then as suddenly lulled again
                            With the whisper and lisp of the summer rain:
                            
                            Mist of melodies fragrance-fine
                            The birdsong flicked from the eglantine
                            With the dews when the springing bramble throws
                            A rarer drench on its ripest rose,
                            And the wingd song soars up and sinks
                            To the dove's dim coo by the river-brinks
                            Where the ripple's voice still laughs along
                            Its glittering path of light and song.
                            Music, O Poet, and all your own
                            By right of capture and that alone,
                            For in it we hear the harmony
                            Born of the earth and the air and the sea,
                            And over and under it, and all through,
                            We catch the chime of The Anthem, too.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Rose-Lady
                        TO THE ROSE
                        
                            I DREAM that you are kisses Allah sent
                            In forms material, that all the earth
                            May taste of you and guess of Heaven's worth,
                            Since it can waste such sweetness with content,
                            Seeing you showered o'er the Battlement
                            By Angel-hands plucked ripe from lips of mirth
                            And flung in lavish clusters, yet no dearth
                            Of rapture for the Anthem! . . . I have bent
                            Above you, nestled in some low retreat,
                            Pressing your velvet mouths against the dust,
                            And, ever nurturing this old conceit,
                            Have lifted up your lips in perfect trust
                            Against my mouth, nor found them the less sweet
                            For having kissed the dust beneath my feet.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Henry Irving
                        [OCTOBER 13, 1905]
                        
                            'T IS Art reclaims him! By those gifts of hers
                            With which so nobly she endowed his mind,
                            He brought back Shakespeare, in quick grief and glee
                            Tasting the world's salt tears and sweet applause,
                            For, even as through his master's, so there ran
                            Through all his multitudinous characters
                            Kinship and love and honor of mankind.
                            So all mankind shall grace his memory
                            In musing proudly: Great as his genius was,
                            Great likewise was the man.
                        
                    
                    
                        We Must Believe
                        
                            "Lord, I believe: help Thou mine unbelief."
                        
                        
                            I
                            WE must believe
                            Being from birth endowed with love and trust
                            Born unto loving;and how simply just
                            That lovethat faith!even in the blossom-face
                            The babe drops dreamward in its resting-place,
                            Intuitively conscious of the sure
                            Awakening to rapture ever pure
                            And sweet and saintly as the mother's own
                            Or the awed father's, as his arms are thrown
                            O'er wife and child, to round about them weave
                            And wind and bind them as one harvest-sheaf
                            Of loveto cleave to, and forever cleave. . . .
                            Lord, I believe:
                            Help Thou mine unbelief.
                        
                        
                        
                            II
                            We must believe
                            Impelled since infancy to seek some clear
                            Fulfilment, still withheld all seekers here;
                            For never have we seen perfection nor
                            The glory we are ever seeking for:
                            But we have seenall mortal souls as one
                            Have seen its promise, in the sun
                            Its blest assurance, in the stars of night;
                            The ever-dawning of the dark to light;
                            The tears down-falling from all eyes that grieve
                            The eyes uplifting from all deeps of grief,
                            Yearning for what at last we shall receive. . . .
                            Lord, I believe:
                            Help Thou mine unbelief.
                        
                        
                            III
                            We must believe:
                            For still all unappeased our hunger goes,
                            From life's first waking, to its last repose:
                            The briefest life of any babe, or man
                            Outwearing even the allotted span,
                            Is each a life unfinishedincomplete:
                            For these, then, of th' outworn, or unworn feet
                            Denied one toddling step O there must be
                            Some fair, green, flowery pathway endlessly
                            Winding through lands Elysian! Lord, receive
                            And lead each as Thine Own Childeven the Chief
                            Of us who didst Immortal life achieve. . . .
                            Lord, I believe:
                            Help Thou mine unbelief.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Even as a Child
                        CANTON SEPTEMBER 19 1901
                        
                            EVEN as a child to whom sad neighbors speak
                            In symbol, saying that his father "sleeps"
                            Who feels their meaning, even as his cheek
                            Feels the first teardrop as it stings and leaps
                            Who keenly knows his loss, and yet denies
                            Its awful importgrieves unreconciled,
                            Moans drowsesrouses, with new-drowing eyes
                            Even as a child.
                        
                        
                            Even as a child; with empty, aimless hand
                            Clasped sudden to the heart all hope deserts
                            With tears that blur all lights on sea or land
                            The lip that quivers and the throat that hurts:
                            Even so, the Nation that has known his love
                            Is orphaned now; and, whelmed in anguish wild,
                            Knows but its sorrow and the ache thereof,
                            Even as a child.
                        
                    
                    
                        An Autumnal Tonic
                        
                            WHAT mystery is it? The morning as rare
                            As the Indian Summer may bring!
                            A tang in the frost and a spice in the air
                            That no city poet can sing!
                            The crimson and amber and gold of the leaves,
                            As they loosen and flutter and fall
                            In the path of the park, as it rustlingly weaves
                            Its way through the maples and under the eaves
                            Of the sparrows that chatter and call.
                        
                        
                        
                            What hint of delight is it tingles me through?
                            What vague, indefinable joy?
                            What yearning for something divine that I knew
                            When a wayward and wood-rovine boy?
                            Ah-ha! and O-ho! but I have it, I say
                            Oh, the mystery brightens at last,
                            'Tis the longing and zest of the far, far away,
                            For a bountiful, old-fashioned dinner to-day,
                            With the hale harvest-hands of the past.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Rainy Morning
                        
                            THE dawn of the day was dreary,
                            And the lowering clouds o'erhead
                            Wept in a silent sorrow
                            Where the sweet sunshine lay dead;
                            And a wind came out of the eastward
                            Like an endless sigh of pain,
                            And the leaves fell down in the pathway
                            And writhed in the falling rain.
                        
                        
                            I had tried in a brave endeavor
                            To chord my harp with the sun,
                            But the strings would slacken ever,
                            And the task was a weary one:
                            And so, like a child impatient
                            And sick of a discontent,
                            I bowed in a shower of teardrops
                            And mourned with the instrument.
                        
                        
                        
                            And lo! as I bowed, the splendor
                            Of the sun bent over me,
                            With a touch as warm and tender
                            As a father's hand might be:
                            And even as I felt its presence,
                            My clouded soul grew bright,
                            And the tears, like the rain of morning,
                            Melted in mists of light.
                        
                    
                    
                        We Must Get Home
                        
                            WE must get home! How could we stray like this?
                            So far from home, we know not where it is,
                            Only in some fair, apple-blossomy place
                            Of children's facesand the mother's face
                            We dimly dream it, till the vision clears
                            Even in the eyes of fancy, glad with tears.
                        
                        
                            We must get homefor we have been away
                            So long, it seems forever and a day!
                            And O so very homesick we have grown,
                            The laughter of the world is like a moan
                            In our tired hearing, and its songs as vain,
                            We must get homewe must get home again!
                        
                        
                            We must get home! With heart and soul we yearn
                            To find the long-lost pathway, and return!. . .
                            The child's shout lifted from the questing band
                            Of old folk, faring weary, hand in hand,
                            But faces brightening, as if clouds at last
                            Were showing sunshine on us as they passed,
                        
                        
                        
                            We must get home: It hurts so, staying here,
                            Where fond hearts must be wept out tear by tear,
                            And where to wear wet lashes means, at best,
                            When most our lack, the least our hope of rest
                            When most our need of joy, the more our pain
                            We must get homeWe must get home again!
                        
                        
                            We must get homehome to the simple things
                            The morning-gloris twirling up the strings
                            And bugling color, as they blared in blue-
                            And-white o'er garden-gates we scampered through;
                            The long grape-arbor, with its under-shade
                            Blue as the green and purple overlaid.
                        
                        
                            We must get home: All is so quiet there:
                            The touch of loving hands on brow and hair
                            Dim rooms, wherein the sunshine is made mild
                            The lost love of the mother and the child
                            Restored in restful lullabies of rain,
                            We must get homewe must get home again!
                        
                        
                            The rows of sweetcorn and the China beans
                            Beyond the lettuce-beds where, towering, leans
                            The giant sunflower in barbaric pride
                            Guarding the barn-door and the lane outside;
                            The honeysuckles, midst the hollyhocks,
                            That clamber almost to the martin-box.
                        
                        
                            We must get home, where, as we nod and drowse,
                            Time humors us and tiptoes through the house,
                            And loves us best when sleeping baby-wise,
                        
                        
                        
                            With dreamsnot tear-dropsbrimming our clenched eyes,
                            Pure dreams that know nor taint nor earthly stain
                            We must get homewe must get home again!
                        
                        
                            We must get home! There only may we find
                            The little playmates that we left behind,
                            Some racing down the road; some by the brook;
                            Some droning at their desks, with wistful look
                            Across the fields and orchardsfarther still
                            Where laughs and weeps the old wheel at the mill.
                        
                        
                            We must get home! The willow-whistle's call
                            Trills crisp and liquid as the waterfall
                            Mocking the trillers in the cherry-trees
                            And making discord of such rhymes as these,
                            That know nor lilt nor cadence but the birds
                            First warbledthen all poets afterwards.
                        
                        
                            we must get home and, unremembering there
                            All gain of all ambition otherwhere,
                            Restfrom the feverish victory, and the crown
                            Of conquest whose waste glory weighs us down.
                            Fame's fairest gifts we toss back with disdain
                            We must get homeWe must get home again!
                        
                        
                            We must get home againWe mustWe must!
                            (Our rainy faces pelted in the dust)
                            Creep back from the vain quest through endless strife
                            To find not anywhere in all of life
                            A happier happiness than blest us then. . . .
                            We must get homewe must get home again!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Sis Rapalye
                        
                            WHEN rainy-greener shoots the grass
                            And blooms the cherry-tree,
                            And children laugh by glittering brooks,
                            Wild with the ecstasy
                            Of bursting Spring, with twittering bird
                            And hum of honey-bee,
                            "Sis Rapalye!" my spirit shouts. . .
                            And she is here with me!
                        
                        
                            As laughs the children, so her laugh
                            Haunts all the atmosphere;
                            Her song is in the brook's refrain;
                            Her glad eyes, flashing clear,
                            Are in the morning dews; her speech
                            Is melody so dear,
                            The bluebird trills,"Sis Rapalye!
                            I hear!I hear!I hear!"
                        
                        
                            Again in races, at "Recess,"
                            I see her braided hair
                            Toss past me as I stay to lift
                            Her straw hat, fallen there;
                            The school-bell sends a vibrant pang
                            My heart can hardly bear.
                            Yet still she leadsSis Rapalye
                            And leads me everywhere!
                        
                        
                            Now I am old.Yet she remains
                            The selfsame child of ten.
                            Gay, gallant little girl, to race
                            On into Heaven then!
                            
                            Yet gallant, gay Sis Rapalye
                            In blossom-time, and when
                            The trees and grasses beckon her
                            Comes back to us again.
                        
                        
                            And so, however long since youth
                            Whose raptures wild and free
                            And old man's heart may claim no more,
                            With more than memory
                            I share the Spring's own joy that brings
                            My boyhood back to me
                            With laughter, blossoms, singing birds
                            And sweet Sis Rapalye.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Voice of Peace
                        INDEPENDENCE BELL
                        INDIANAPOLIS, NOVEMBER 17, 1904
                        
                            THOUGH now forever still
                            Your voice of jubilee
                            We hearwe hear, and ever will,
                            The Bell of Liberty!
                            Clear as the voice to them
                            In that far night agone
                            Pealed from the heavens o'er Bethlehem,
                            The voice of Peace peals on!
                        
                        
                            Stir all your memories up,
                            O Independence Bell,
                            And pour from your inverted cup
                            The song we love so well!
                            
                            As you rang in the dawn
                            Of Freedomtolled the knell
                            Of Tyranny,ring onring on
                            O Independence Bell!
                        
                        
                            Ring numb the wounds of wrong
                            Unhealed in brain and breast;
                            With music like a slumber-song
                            Lull tearful eyes to rest
                            Ring! Independence Bell!
                            Ring on till worlds to be
                            Shall listen to the tale you tell
                            Of Love and Liberty!
                        
                    
                    
                        What Title?
                        
                            WHAT title best befits the man
                            We hold our first American?
                            Or Statesman; Soldier; Hero; Chief,
                            Whose Country is his first belief;
                            Or sanest, safest Leader; or
                            True Patriot; or Orator,
                            Heard still at Inspiration's height,
                            Because he speaks for truth and right;
                            Or shall his people be content
                            With Our Republic's President,
                            Or trust his ringing worth to live
                            In song as Chief Executive?
                            Nayhis the simplest namethough set
                            Upon him like a coronet,
                            God names our first American
                            The highest, noblest nameThe MAN.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        To Edmund Clarence Stedman
                        THE AUTHOR'S CLUB RECEPTION, NEW YORK
                        
                        
                            DECEMBER 6, 1900
                        
                            IT is a various tribute you command,
                            O Poet-seer and World-sage in one!
                            The scholar greets you; and the student; and
                            The stoicand his visionary son:
                            The painter, harvesting with quiet eye
                            Your features; and the sculptor, dreaming, too,
                            A classic marble figure, lifted high
                            Where Fame's immortal ones are waiting you.
                        
                        
                            The man of letters, with his wistful face;
                            The grizzled scientist; the young A. B.;
                            The true historian, of force and grace;
                            The orator, of pure simplicity;
                            The journalistthe editor, likewise;
                            The young war-correspondent; and the old
                            War-seasoned general, with sagging eyes,
                            And nerve and hand of steel, and heart of gold.
                        
                        
                            The serious humorist; the blithe divine;
                            The lawyer, with that twinkling look he wears;
                            The bleak-faced man in the dramatic line;
                            The social lionand the bulls and bears;
                            Thesethese, and more, O favored guest of all,
                            Have known your benefactions, and are led
                            To pay their worldly homage, and to call
                            Down Heaven's blessings on your honored head.
                        
                        
                            Ideal, to the utmost plea of art
                            As real, to labor's most exacting need,
                            Your dual services of soul and heart
                            Enrich the world alike in dream and deed:
                        
                        
                        
                            For you have brought to us, from out the mine
                            Delved but by genius in scholastic soil,
                            The blended treasures of a wealth divine,
                            Your peerless gift of songyour life of toil.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Rest
                        V. K.NATURALIST
                        
                            HE rests at last, as on the mother-breast
                            The playworn child at evening lies at rest,
                            For he, a buoyant child, in veriest truth,
                            Has looked on life with eyes of changeless youth:
                            Has loved our green old earth here from the hour
                            Of his first memory of bud and flower
                            Of morning's grassy lawns and dewy trees
                            And orchard-blossoms, singing birds and bees:
                        
                        
                            When all the world about him was a land
                            Elysian, with the mother near at hand:
                            With steadfast gaze of wonder and delight
                            He marked the miracles of day and night:
                            Beheld the kingly sun, in dazzling reign
                            By day; and, with her glittering, glimmering train
                            Of stars, he saw the queenly moon possess
                            Her throne in midmost midnight's mightiness.
                        
                        
                            All living least of things he ever knew
                            Of mother Earth's he was a brother to:
                            The lone rose by the brookor, under, where
                            The swaying water-lilies anchored there;
                            
                            His love dipped even to the glossy things
                            That walked the waters and forgot their wings
                            In sheer insanity of some delight
                            Known but to that ecstatic parasite.
                        
                        
                            It was enough, thus childishly to sense
                            All workssince worthy of Omnipotence
                            As worshipful: Therefor, as any child,
                            He knelt in tenderness of tears, or smiled
                            His gratefulness, as to a playmate glad
                            To share His pleasures with a poorer lad.
                            And so he lived: And so he died?Ah, no,
                            We'll not believe that till he tells us so.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Doctor
                        [APRIL 29, 1907]
                        
                            "He took the suffering human race,
                            He read each wound each weakness clear;
                            And struck his finger on the place,
                            And said: 'Thou ailest here, and here!'"
                        
                        
                            Matthew Arnold.
                        
                        
                            WE may idealize the chief of men
                            Idealize the humblest citizen,
                            Idealize the ruler in his chair
                            The poor man, or the poorer millionaire;
                            Idealize the soldiersailoror
                            The simple man of peaceat war with war;
                            The hero of the sword or fife-and-drum. . . .
                            Why not idealize the Doctor some?
                        
                        
                        
                            The Doctor is, by principle, we know,
                            Opposed to sentiment: he veils all show
                            Of feeling, and is proudest when he hides
                            The sympathy which natively abides
                            Within the stoic precincts of a soul
                            Which owns strict duty as its first control,
                            And so must guard the ill, lest worse may come. . . .
                            Why not idealize the Doctor some?
                        
                        
                            He is the master of emotionshe
                            Is likewise certain of that mastery,
                            Or dare he face contagion in its ire,
                            Or scathing fever in its leaping fire?
                            He needs must smile upon the ghastly face
                            That yearns up toward him in that warded place
                            Where even the Saint-like Sisters' lips grow dumb.
                            Why not idealize the Doctor some?
                        
                        
                            He wisely hides his heart from you and me
                            He hath grown tearless, of necessity,
                            He knows the sight is clearer, being blind;
                            He knows the cruel knife is very kind;
                            Ofttimes he must be pitiless, for thought
                            Of the remembered wife or child he sought
                            To save through kindness that was overcome.
                            Why not idealize the Doctor some?
                        
                        
                            Bear with him, trustful, in his darkest doubt
                            Of how the mystery of death comes out;
                            He knowshe knows,aye, better yet than we,
                            That out of Time must dawn Eternity;
                        
                        
                        
                            He knows his own compassionwhat he would
                            Give in relief of all ills, if he could.
                            We wait alike one Master: He will come.
                            Do we idealize the Doctor some?
                        
                    
                    
                        Ours
                        LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY, DECEMBER 8, 1906
                        
                            Read at Banquet in Honor of Henry Watterson Upon His Departure for
                            Spain
                        
                        
                            HERE where of old was heard
                            The ringing, singing word
                            That orator and bard
                            Alike set free
                            To soar, through heights profound,
                            Our land's remotest bound,
                            Till all is holy ground
                            From sea to sea
                        
                        
                            Here still, with voice and pen,
                            ONE cheers the hopes of men
                            And gives us faith again
                            This gifted one
                            We hold here as the guest
                            Most honoredloved the best
                            Wisest and worthiest
                            Our Watterson.
                        
                        
                        
                            His spirit is the Seer's
                            For, though he sees and hears
                            Through human doubts and fears,
                            His heart is one
                            With Earth's and the Divine
                            With his home-heartsand mine
                            And the child's heart is thine,
                            Our Watterson!
                        
                        
                            Give us to touch and praise
                            His worth in subtlest ways,
                            Lest even our fondest gaze
                            He fain would shun
                            Laugh, though a mist appears
                            The glad wine salt with tears
                            Laugh, as we drain it"Here's
                            Our Watterson!"
                        
                    
                    
                        "Out of Reach"
                        
                            YOU think them "out of reach," your dead?
                            Nay, by my own dead, I deny
                            Your "out of reach."Be comforted:
                            'Tis not so far to die.
                        
                        
                            O by their dear remembered smiles
                            And outheld hands and welcoming speech,
                            They wait for us, thousands of miles
                            This side of "out of reach."
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Life at the Lake
                        
                            THE green below and the blue above!
                            The waves caressing the shores they love:
                            Sails in haven, and sails afar
                            And faint as the waterlilies are
                            In inlets haunted of willow wands,
                            Listless lovers, and trailing hands
                            With spray to gem them and tan to glove.
                            The green below and the blue above.
                        
                        
                            The blue above and the green below!
                            Would that the world were always so!
                            Always summer and warmth and light,
                            With mirth and melody day and night!
                            Birds in the boughs of the beckoning trees,
                            Chirr of locusts and whiff of breeze
                            World-old roses that bud and blow.
                            The blue above and the green below.
                        
                        
                            The green below and the blue above!
                            Heigh! young hearts and the hopes thereof!
                            Kate in the hammock, and Tom sprawled on
                            The swardlike a lover's picture, drawn
                            By the lucky dog himself, with Kate
                            To moon o'er his shoulder and meditate
                            On a fat old purse or a lank young love.
                            The green below and the blue above.
                        
                        
                            The blue above and the green below!
                            Shadow and sunshine to and fro.
                            Season for dreamswhate'er befall
                            Hero, heroine, hearts and all!
                        
                        
                        
                            Wave or wildwoodthe blithe bird sings,
                            And the leaf-hid locust whets his wings
                            Just as a thousand years ago
                            The blue above and the green below.
                        
                    
                    
                        Our Little Girl
                        
                            HER heart knew naught of sorrow,
                            Nor the vaguest taint of sin
                            'Twas an ever-blooming blossom
                            Of the purity within:
                            And her hands knew only touches
                            Of the mother's gentle care,
                            And the kisses and caresses
                            Through the interludes of prayer.
                        
                        
                            Her baby-feet had journeyed
                            Such a little distance here,
                            They could have found no briars
                            In the path to interfere;
                            The little cross she carried
                            Could not weary her, we know,
                            For it lay as lightly on her
                            As a shadow on the snow.
                        
                        
                            And yet the way before us
                            O how empty now and drear!
                            How ev'n the dews of roses
                            Seem as dripping-tears for her!
                            And the songbirds all seem crying,
                            As the winds cry and the rain,
                            All sobbingly,"We wantwe want
                            Our little girl again!"
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        A Parting Guest
                        
                            WHAT delightful hosts are they
                            Life and Love!
                            Lingeringly I turn away,
                            This late hour, yet glad enough
                            They have not withheld from me
                            Their high hospitality.
                            So, with face lit with delight
                            And all gratitude, I stay
                            Yet to press their hands and say,
                            "Thanks.So fine a time! Good night."
                        
                    
                    
                        Laughing Song
                        
                            SING us something full of laughter;
                            Tune your harp, and twang the strings
                            Till your glad voice, chirping after,
                            Mates the song the robin sings:
                            Loose your lips and let them flutter
                            Like the wings of wanton birds,
                            Though they naught but laughter utter,
                            Laugh, and we'll not miss the words.
                        
                        
                            Sing in ringing tones that mingle
                            In a melody that flings
                            Joyous echoes in a jingle
                            Sweeter than the minstrel sings:
                            Sing of Winter, Spring or Summer,
                            Clang of war, or low of herds;
                            Trill of cricket, roll of drummer
                            Laugh, and we'll not miss the words.
                        
                        
                        
                            Like the lisping laughter glancing
                            From the meadow brooks and springs,
                            Or the river's ripples dancing
                            To the tune the current sings
                            Sing of Now, and the Hereafter;
                            Let your glad song, like the birds',
                            Overflow with limpid laughter
                            Laugh, and we'll not miss the words.
                        
                    
                    
                        A Good Man
                        
                            A GOOD man never dies
                            In worthy deed and prayer
                            And helpful hands, and honest eyes,
                            If smiles or tears be there:
                            Who lives for you and me
                            Lives for the world he tries
                            To helphe lives eternally.
                            A good man never dies.
                        
                        
                            II
                            Who lives to bravely take
                            His share of toil and stress,
                            And, for his weaker fellow's sake,
                            Makes every burden less,
                            He may, at last, seem worn
                            Lie fallenhands and eyes
                            Foldedyet, though we mourn and mourn,
                            A good man never dies.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Children of the Childless
                        
                            THE Children of the Childless!Yoursand mine.
                            Yea, though we sit here in the pitying gaze
                            Of fathers and mothers whose fond fingers twine
                            Their children's locks of living gold, and praise
                            With warm, caressing palms, the head of brown,
                            Or crown
                            Of opulent auburn, with its amber floss
                            In all its splendor loosed and jostled down
                            Across
                            The mother-lap at prayer.Yea, even when
                            These sweet petitioners are kissed, and then
                            Are kissed and kissed again
                            The pursed mouths lifted with the worldlier prayer
                            That bed and oblivion spare
                            Them yet a little while
                            Beside their envied elders by the glow
                            Of the glad firelight; or wresting, as they go,
                            Some promise for the morrow, to beguile
                            Their long exile
                            Within the wild waste lands of dream and sleep.
                            Nay, nay, not even these most stably real
                            Of children are more loved than our ideal
                            More tangible to the soul's touch and sight
                            Than these
                                our children by Divine birthright. . . .
                            Thesethese of ours, who soothe us, when we weep,
                            With tenderest ministries,
                            Or, flashing into smiling ecstasies,
                            Come dashing through our tearsaye, laughing leap
                            Into our empty arms, in Fate's despite,
                            And nestle to our hearts. O Heaven's delight!
                            The children of the childlesseven these!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        My Foe
                        
                            MY Foe? You name yourself, thenI refuse
                            A term so dark to designate you by.
                            To me you are most kind and true; and I
                            Am grateful as the dust is for the dews
                            That brim the dusk, and falter, drip and ooze
                            From the dear darkness of the summer sky.
                            Vex not yourself for lack of moan or cry
                            Of mine. Not any harm, nor ache nor bruise
                            Could reach my soul through any stroke you fain
                            Might launch upon me,it were as the lance
                            Even of the lightning did it leap to rend
                            A ray of sunshine'twould recoil again.
                            So, blessing you, with pitying countenance,
                            I wave a hand to you, my helpless friend.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Old Days
                        
                            THE old daysthe far days
                            The overdear and fair!
                            The old daysthe lost days
                            How lovely they were!
                            The old days of Morning,
                            With the dew-drench on the flowers
                            And apple-buds and blossoms
                            Of those old days of ours.
                        
                        
                            Then was the real gold
                            Spendthrift Summer flung;
                            Then was the real song
                            Bird or Poet sung!
                        
                        
                        
                            There was never censure then,
                            Only honest praise
                            And all things were worthy of it
                            In the old days
                        
                        
                            There bide the true friends
                            The first and the best;
                            There clings the green grass
                            Close where they rest:
                            Would they were here? No;
                            Would we were there! . . .
                            The old daysthe lost days
                            How lovely they were!
                        
                    
                    
                        LincolnThe Boy
                        
                            O SIMPLE as the rhymes that tell
                            The simplest tales of youth,
                            Or simple as a miracle
                            Beside the simplest truth
                            So simple seems the view we share
                            With our Immortals, sheer
                            From Glory looking down to where
                            They were as children here.
                        
                        
                            Or thus we know, nor doubt it not,
                            The boy he must have been
                            Whose budding heart bloomed with the thought
                            All men are kith and kin
                        
                        
                        
                            With love-light in his eyes and shade
                            Of prescient tears:Because
                            Only of such a boy were made
                            The loving man he was.
                        
                    
                    
                        You May Not Remember
                        
                            
                                In the deep grave's charmd chamber,
                            
                            
                                Lying tranced in breathless slumber,
                            
                            
                                You may haply not remember.
                            
                        
                        
                            YOU may not remember whether
                            It was Spring or Summer weather;
                            But I knowwe two together
                            At the dim end of the day
                            How the fireflies in the twilight
                            Drifted by like flakes of starlight,
                            Till o'er floods of flashing moonlight
                            They were wave-like swept away.
                        
                        
                            You may not remember any
                            Word of mine of all the many
                            Poured out for you there, though then a
                            Soul inspird spake my love;
                            But I knewand still review it,
                            All my passion, as with awe it
                            Welled in speech as from a poet
                            Gifted of the gods above.
                        
                        
                        
                            Sleeping here, this hour I grieve in,
                            You may not remember even
                            Any kiss I still believe in,
                            Or caress of ectasy,
                            May not even dreamO can't you?
                            That I kneel hereweep herewant you
                            Feign me in your grave, to haunt you,
                            Since you come not back to me!
                        
                        
                            Vain! ah, vain is all my yearning
                            As the West's last embers burning
                            Into ashes, slowly turning
                            Ever to a denser gray!
                            While the fireflies in the twilight
                            Drift about like flakes of starlight,
                            Till o'er wastes of wannest moonlight
                            They are wave-like swept away.
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    POEMS HERE AT HOME
                    
                        The Used-To-Be
                        
                            BEYOND the purple, hazy trees
                            Of summer's utmost boundaries;
                            Beyond the sandsbeyond the seas
                            Beyond the range of eyes like these,
                            And only in the reach of the
                            Enraptured gaze of Memory,
                            There lies a land, long lost to me,
                            The land of Used-to-be!
                        
                        
                            A land enchantedsuch as swung
                            In golden seas when sirens clung
                            Along their dripping brinks, and sung
                            To Jason in that mystic tongue
                            That dazed men with its melody
                            O such a land, with such a sea
                            Kissing its shores eternally,
                            Is the fair Used-to-be.
                        
                        
                            A land where music ever girds
                            The air with belts of singing-birds,
                            And sows all sounds with such sweet words,
                            That even in the low of herds
                            A meaning lives so sweet to me,
                            Lost laughter ripples limpidly
                            From lips brimmed over with the glee
                            Of rare old Used-to-be.
                        
                        
                        
                            Lost laughter, and the whistled tunes
                            Of boyhood's mouth of crescent runes,
                            That rounded, through long afternoons,
                            To serenading plenilunes
                            When starlight fell so mistily
                            That, peering up from bended knee,
                            I dreamed 'twas bridal drapery
                            Snowed over Used-to-be.
                        
                        
                            O land of love and dreamy thoughts,
                            And shining fields, and shady spots
                            Of coolest, greenest grassy plots,
                            Embossed with wild forget-me-nots!
                            And all ye blooms that longingly
                            Lift your fair faces up to me
                            Out of the past, I kiss in ye
                            The lips of Used-to-be.
                        
                    
                    
                        Song of the Bullet
                        
                            IT whizzed and whistled along the blurred
                            And red-blent ranks; and it nicked the star
                            Of an epaulet, as it snarled the word
                            War!
                        
                        
                            On it spedand the lifted wrist
                            Of the ensign-bearer stung, and straight
                            Dropped at his side as the word was hissed
                            Hate!
                        
                        
                        
                            On went the missilesmoothed the blue
                            Of a jaunty cap and the curls thereof,
                            Cooing, soft as a dove might do
                            Love!
                        
                        
                            Sang!sang on!sang hatesang war
                            Sang love, in sooth, till it needs must cease,
                            Hushed in the heart it was questing for.
                            Peace!
                        
                    
                    
                        Dead, My Lords
                        
                            DEAD, my lords and gentlemen!
                            Stilled the tongue, and stayed the pen;
                            Cheek unflushed and eye unlit
                            Done with life, and glad of it.
                        
                        
                            Curb your praises now as then:
                            Dead, my lords and gentlemen.
                            What he wrought found its reward
                            In the tolerance of the Lord.
                        
                        
                            Ye who fain had barred his path,
                            Dread ye now this look he hath?
                            Dead, my lords and gentlemen
                            Dare ye not smile back again?
                        
                        
                            Low he lies, yet high and great
                            Looms he, lying thus in state.
                            How exalted o'er ye when
                            Dead, my lords and gentlemen!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Bereaved
                        
                            LET me come in where you sit weeping,ay,
                            Let me, who have not any child to die,
                            Weep with you for the little one whose love
                            I have known nothing of.
                        
                        
                            The little arms that slowly, slowly loosed
                            Their pressure round your neck; the hands you used
                            To kiss.Such armssuch hands I never knew.
                            May I not weep with you?
                        
                        
                            Fain would I be of servicesay some thing,
                            Between the tears, that would be comforting,
                            But ah! so sadder than yourselves am I,
                            Who have no child to die.
                        
                    
                    
                        A Vision of Summer
                        
                            'TWAS a marvelous vision of Summer.
                            That morning the dawn was late,
                            And came, like a long dream-ridden guest,
                            Through the gold of the Eastern gate.
                        
                        
                            Languid it came, and halting,
                            As one that yawned, half roused,
                            With lifted arms and indolent lids
                            And eyes that drowsed and drowsed.
                        
                        
                            A glimmering haze hung over
                            The face of the smiling air;
                            And the green of the trees and the blue of the leas
                            And the skies gleamed everywhere.
                        
                        
                        
                            And the dewdrops' dazzling jewels,
                            In garlands and diadems,
                            Lightened and twinkled and glanced and shot
                            As the glints of a thousand gems:
                        
                        
                            Emeralds of dew on the grasses;
                            The rose with rubies set;
                            On the lily, diamonds; and amethysts
                            Pale on the violet.
                        
                        
                            And there were the pinks of the fuchsias
                            And the peony's crimson hue,
                            The lavender of the hollyhocks,
                            And the morning-glory's blue:
                        
                        
                            The purple of the pansy bloom,
                            And the passionate flush of the face
                            Of the velvet-rose; and the thick perfume
                            Of the locust every place.
                        
                        
                            The air and the sun and the shadows
                            Were wedded and made as one;
                            And the winds ran over the meadows
                            As little children run:
                        
                        
                            And the winds poured over the meadows
                            And along the willowy way
                            The river ran, with its ripples shod
                            With the sunshine of the day:
                        
                        
                            O the winds flowed over the meadows
                            In a tide of eddies and calms,
                        
                        
                        
                            And the bared brow felt the touch of it
                            As a sweetheart's tender palms.
                        
                        
                            And the lark went palpitating
                            Up through the glorious skies,
                            His song spilled down from the blue profound
                            As a song from Paradise.
                        
                        
                            And here was the loitering current
                            Stayed by a drift of sedge
                            And sodden logsscummed thick with the gold
                            Of the pollen from edge to edge.
                        
                        
                            The cat-bird piped in the hazel,
                            And the harsh kingfisher screamed;
                            And the crane, in amber and oozy swirls,
                            Dozed in the reeds and dreamed.
                        
                        
                            And in through the tumbled driftage
                            And the tangled roots below,
                            The waters warbled and gurgled and lisped
                            Like the lips of long ago.
                        
                        
                            And the senses caught, through the music,
                            Twinkles of dabbling feet,
                            And glimpses of faces in coverts green,
                            And voices faint and sweet.
                        
                        
                            And back from the lands enchanted,
                            Where my earliest mirth was born,
                            The trill of a laugh was blown to me
                            Like the blare of an elfin horn.
                        
                        
                        
                            Again I romped through the clover;
                            And again I lay supine
                            On grassy swards, where the skies, like eyes,
                            Looked lovingly back in mine.
                        
                        
                            And over my vision floated
                            Misty illusive things
                            Trailing strands of the gossamer
                            On heavenward wanderings:
                        
                        
                            Figures that veered and wavered,
                            Luring the sight, and then
                            Glancing away into nothingness,
                            And blinked into shape again.
                        
                        
                            From out far depths of the forest,
                            Ineffably sad and lorn,
                            Like the yearning cry of a long-lost love,
                            The moan of the dove was borne.
                        
                        
                            And through lush glooms of the thicket
                            The flash of the redbird's wings
                            On branches of star-white blooms that shook
                            And thrilled with its twitterings.
                        
                        
                            Through mossy and viny vistas,
                            Soaked ever with deepest shade,
                            Dimly the dull owl stared and stared
                            From his bosky ambuscade.
                        
                        
                            And up through the rifted tree-tops
                            That signaled the wayward breeze,
                        
                        
                        
                            I saw the hulk of the hawk becalmed
                            Far out on the azure seas.
                        
                        
                            Then sudden an awe fell on me,
                            As the hush of the golden day
                            Rounded to noon, as a May to June
                            That a lover has dreamed away.
                        
                        
                            And I heard, in the breathless silence,
                            And the full, glad light of the sun,
                            The tinkle and drip of a timorous shower
                            Ceasing as it begun.
                        
                        
                            And my thoughts, like the leaves and grasses,
                            In a rapture of joy and pain,
                            Seemed fondled and petted and beat upon
                            With a tremulous patter of rain.
                        
                    
                    
                        From a Balloon
                        
                            HO! we are loose. Hear how they shout,
                            And how their clamor dwindles out
                            Beneath us to the merest hum
                            Of earthly acclamation. Come,
                            Lean with me here and look below
                            Why, bless you, man! don't tremble so!
                            There is no need of fear up here
                            Net higher than the buzzard swings
                            About upon the atmosphere,
                            With drowsy eyes and open wings!
                        
                        
                        
                            There, steady, now, and feast your eyes;
                            See, we are trancedwe do not rise;
                            It is the earth that sinks from us:
                            But when I first beheld it thus,
                            And felt the breezes downward flow,
                            And heard all noises fail and die,
                            Until but silence and the sky
                            Above, around me, and below,
                            Why, like you now, I swooned almost,
                            With mingled awe and fear and glee
                            As giddy as an hour-old ghost
                            That stares into eternity.
                        
                    
                    
                        Dead Selves
                        
                            HOW many of my selves are dead?
                            The ghosts of many haunt me: Lo,
                            The baby in the tiny bed
                            With rockers on, is blanketed
                            And sleeping in the long ago;
                            And so I ask, with shaking head,
                            How many of my selves are dead?
                        
                        
                            A little face with drowsy eyes
                            And lisping lips comes mistily
                            From out the faded past, and tries
                            The prayers a mother breathed with sighs
                            Of anxious care in teaching me;
                            But face and form and prayers have fled
                            How many of my selves are dead?
                        
                        
                        
                            The little naked feet that slipped
                            In truant paths, and led the way
                            Through dead'ning pasture-lands, and tripped
                            O'er tangled poison-vines, and dipped
                            In streams forbiddenwhere are they?
                            In vain I listen for their tread
                            How many of my selves are dead?
                        
                        
                            The awkward boy the teacher caught
                            Inditing letters filled with love,
                            Who was compelled, for all he fought,
                            To read aloud each tender thought
                            Of "Sugar Lump" and "Turtle Dove.". . .
                            I wonder where he hides his head
                            How many of my selves are dead?
                        
                        
                            The earnest features of a youth
                            With manly fringe on lip and chin,
                            With eager tongue to tell the truth,
                            To offer love and life, forsooth,
                            So brave was he to woo and win;
                            A prouder man was never wed
                            How many of my selves are dead?
                        
                        
                            The great, strong hands so all-inclined
                            To welcome toil, or smooth the care
                            From mother-brows, or quick to find
                            A leisure-scrap of any kind,
                            To toss the baby in the air,
                            Or clap at babbling things it said
                            How many of my selves are dead?
                        
                        
                        
                            The pact of brawn and scheming brain
                            Conspiring in the plots of wealth,
                            Still delving, till the lengthened chain,
                            Unwindlassed in the mines of gain,
                            Recoils with dregs of ruined health
                            And pain and poverty instead
                            How many of my selves are dead?
                        
                        
                            The faltering step, the faded hair
                            Head, heart and soul, all echoing
                            With maundering fancies that declare
                            That life and love were never there,
                            Nor ever joy in anything,
                            Nor wounded heart that ever bled
                            How many of my selves are dead?
                        
                        
                            So many of my selves are dead,
                            That, bending here above the brink
                            Of my last grave, with dizzy head,
                            I find my spirit comforted,
                            For all the idle things I think:
                            It can but be a peaceful bed,
                            Since all my other selves are dead.
                        
                    
                    
                        Someday
                        
                            SOMEDAY:So many tearful eyes
                            Are watching for thy dawning light;
                            So many faces toward the skies
                            Are weary of the night!
                        
                        
                        
                            So many failing prayers that reel
                            And stagger upward through the storm,
                            And yearning hands that reach and feel
                            No pressure true and warm.
                        
                        
                            So many hearts whose crimson wine
                            Is wasted to a purple stain
                            And blurred and streaked with drops of brine
                            Upon the lips of Pain.
                        
                        
                            Oh, come to them!these weary ones!
                            Or if thou still must bide a while,
                            Make stronger yet the hope that runs
                            Before thy coming smile:
                        
                        
                            And haste and find them where they wait
                            Let summer winds blow down that way,
                            And all they long for, soon or late,
                            Bring round to them, Someday.
                        
                    
                    
                        One Afternoon
                        
                            BELOW, cool grasses: over us
                            The maples waver tremulous.
                        
                        
                            A slender overture above,
                            Low breathing as a sigh of love
                        
                        
                            At first, then gradually strong
                            And stronger: 'tis the locust's song,
                        
                        
                            Swoln midway to a pan of glee,
                            And lost in silence dwindlingly.
                        
                        
                        
                            Not utter silence; nay, for hid
                            In ghosts of it, the katydid
                        
                        
                            Chirrs a diluted echo of
                            The loveless song he makes us love.
                        
                        
                            The low boughs are drugged heavily
                            With shade; the poem you read to me
                        
                        
                            Is not more gracious than the trill
                            Of birds that twitter as they will.
                        
                        
                            Half consciously, with upturned eyes,
                            I hear your voiceI see the skies,
                        
                        
                            Where, o'er bright rifts, the swallows glance
                            Like glad thoughts o'er a countenance;
                        
                        
                            And voices near and far are blent
                            Like sweet chords of some instrument
                        
                        
                            Awakened by the trembling touch
                            Of hands that love it overmuch.
                        
                        
                            Dear heart, let be the book awhile!
                            I want your faceI want your smile!
                        
                        
                            Tell me how gladder now are they
                            Who look on us from heaven to-day.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Old Chums
                        
                            "IF I die first," my old chum paused to say,
                            "Mind! not a whimper of regret;instead,
                            Laugh and be glad, as I shall.Being dead,
                            I shall not lodge so very far away
                            But that our mirth shall mingle.So, the day
                            The word comes, joy with me." "I'll try," I
                                said,
                            Though, even speaking, sighed and shook my head
                            And turned, with misted eyes. His roundelay
                            Rang gaily on the stair; and then the door
                            Opened andclosed. . . . Yet something of the clear,
                            Hale hope, and force of wholesome faith he had,
                            Abided with mestrengthened more and more.
                            Thenthen they brought his broken body here:
                            And I laughedwhisperinglyand we were glad.
                        
                    
                    
                        What a Dead Man Said
                        
                            HEAR what a dead man said to me.
                            His lips moved not, and the eyelids lay
                            Shut as the leaves of a white rose may
                            Ere the wan bud blooms out perfectly;
                            And the lifeless hands they were stiffly crossed
                            As they always cross them over the breast
                            When the soul goes nude and the corpse is dressed;
                            And over the form, in its long sleep lost,
                            From forehead down to the pointed feet
                            That peaked the foot of the winding-sheet,
                            Pallid patience and perfect rest
                        
                        
                        
                            It was the voice of a dream, may be,
                            But it seemed that the dead man said to me:
                            "I, indeed, am the man that died
                            Yesternightand you weep for this;
                            But, lo, I am with you, side by side,
                            As we have walked when the summer sun
                            Made the smiles of our faces one
                            And touched our lips with the same warm kiss.
                            Do not doubt that I tell you true
                            I am the man you once called friend,
                            And caught my hand when I came to you,
                            And loosed it only because the end
                            Of the path I walked of a sudden stopped
                            And a dead man's hand must needs be dropped
                            And Ithough it's strange to think so now
                            
                                I have wept, as you weep for me,
                            And pressed hot palms to my aching brow
                            And moaned through the long night ceaselessly.
                            Yet have I lived to forget my pain,
                            As you will live to be glad again
                            Though never so glad as this hour am I,
                            Tasting a rapture of delight
                            Vast as the heavens are infinite,
                            And dear as the hour I came to die.
                            Living and loving, I dreamed my cup
                            Brimmed sometimes, and with marvelings
                            I have lifted and tipped it up
                            And drunk to the dregs of all sweet things.
                            Living, 'twas but a dream of bliss
                            Now I realize all it is;
                            And now my only shadow of grief
                            Is that I may not give relief
                        
                        
                        
                            Unto those living and dreaming on,
                            And woo them graveward, as I have gone,
                            And show death's loveliness,for they
                            Shudder and shrink as they walk this way,
                            Never dreaming that all they dread
                            Is their purest delight when dead."
                        
                        
                            Thus it was, or it seemed to be,
                            That the voice of the dead man spoke to me.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Poet of the Future
                        
                            O THE Poet of the Future! He will come to us as comes
                            The beauty of the bugle's voice above the roar of drums
                            The beauty of the bugle's voice above the roar and din
                            Of battle-drums that pulse the time the victor marches in.
                            His hands will hold no harp, in sooth; his lifted brow will bear
                            No coronet of laurelnay, nor symbol anywhere,
                            Save that his palms are brothers to the toiler's at the plow,
                            His face to heaven, and the dew of duty on his brow.
                        
                        
                            He will sing across the meadow,and the woman at the well
                            Will stay the dripping bucket, with a smile ineffable;
                            And the children in the orchard will gaze wistfully the way
                            The happy song comes to them, with the fragrance of the hay;
                        
                        
                        
                            The barn will neigh in answer, and the pasture-lands behind
                            Will chime with bells, and send responsive lowings down the wind;
                            And all the echoes of the wood will jubilantly call
                            In sweetest mimicry of that one sweetest voice of all.
                        
                        
                            O the Poet of the Future! He will come as man to man,
                            With the honest arm of labor, and the honest face of tan,
                            The honest heart of lowliness, the honest soul of love
                            For human-kind and nature-kind about him and above.
                            His hands will hold no harp, in sooth; his lifted brow will bear
                            No coronet of laurelnay, nor symbol anywhere,
                            Save that his palms are brothers to the toiler's at the plow,
                            His face to heaven, and the dew of duty on his brow.
                        
                    
                    
                        A Sea-Song From the Shore
                        
                            HAIL! Ho!
                            Sail! Ho!
                            Ahoy! Ahoy! Ahoy!
                            Who calls to me,
                            So far at sea?
                            Only a little boy!
                        
                        
                            Sail! Ho!
                            Hail! Ho!
                            The sailor he sails the sea:
                            I wish he would capture
                            A little sea-horse
                            And send him home to me.
                        
                        
                        
                            I wish, as he sails
                            Through the tropical gales,
                            He would catch use a sea-bird, too,
                            With its silver wings
                            And the song it sings,
                            And its breast of down and dew!
                        
                        
                            I wish he would catch me a
                            Little mermaid,
                            Some island where he lands,
                            With her dripping curls,
                            And her crown of pearls,
                            And the looking-glass in her hands!
                        
                        
                            Hail! Ho!
                            Sail! Ho!
                            Sail far o'er the fabulous main!
                            And if I were a sailor
                            I'd sail with you,
                            Though I never sailed back again.
                        
                    
                    
                        A Song of the Cruise
                        
                            O THE sun and the rain, and the rain and the sun!
                            There'll be sunshine again when the tempest is done:
                            And the storm will beat back when the shining is past
                            But in some happy haven we'll anchor at last.
                            Then murmur no more,
                            In lull or in roar,
                            But smile and be brave till the voyage is o'er.
                        
                        
                        
                            O the rain and the sun, and the sun and the rain!
                            When the tempest is done, then the sunshine again;
                            And in rapture we'll ride through the stormiest gales,
                            For God's hand 's on the helm and His breath in the sails.
                            Then murmur no more,
                            In lull or in roar,
                            But smile and be brave till the voyage is o'er.
                        
                    
                    
                        In Swimming-Time
                        
                            CLOUDS above, as white as wool,
                            Drifting over skies as blue
                            As the eyes of beautiful
                            Children when they smile at you;
                            Groves of maple, elm, and beech,
                            With the sunshine sifted through
                            Branches, mingling each with each,
                            Dim with shade and bright with dew;
                            Stripling trees, and poplars hoar,
                            Hickory and sycamore,
                            And the drowsy dogwood bowed
                            Where the ripples laugh aloud,
                            And the crooning creek is stirred
                            To a gaiety that now
                            Mates the warble of the bird
                            Teetering on the hazel-bough.
                            Grasses long and fine and fair
                            As your school-boy sweetheart's hair,
                            Backward roached and twirled and twined
                            By the fingers of the wind.
                        
                        
                        
                            Vines and mosses, interlinked
                            Down dark aisles and deep ravines,
                            Where the stream runs, willow-brinked,
                            Round a bend where some one leans
                            Faint and vague and indistinct
                            As the like reflected thing
                            In the current shimmering.
                            Childish voices farther on,
                            Where the truant stream has gone
                            Vex the echoes of the wood
                            Till no word is understood,
                            Save that one is well aware
                            Happiness is hiding there.
                            There, in leafy coverts, nude
                            Little bodies poise and leap,
                            Spattering the solitude
                            And the silence everywhere
                            Mimic monsters of the deep!
                            Wallowing in sandy shoals
                            Plunging headlong out of sight;
                            And, with spurtings of delight,
                            Clutching hands, and slippery soles,
                            Climbing up the treacherous steep
                            Over which the spring-board spurns
                            Each again as he returns.
                            Ah! the glorious carnival!
                            Purple lips and chattering teeth
                            Eyes that burnbut, in beneath,
                            Every care beyond recall,
                            Every task forgotten quite
                            And again, in dreams at night,
                            Dropping, drifting through it all!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        "The Little Man in the Tin-shop"
                        
                            WHEN I was a little boy, long ago,
                            And spoke of the theatre as the "show,"
                            The first one that I went to see,
                            Mother's brother it was took me
                            (My uncle, of course, though he seemed to be
                            Only a boy-I loved him so!)
                            And ah, how pleasant he made it all!
                            And the things he knew that I should know!
                            The stage, the "drop," and the frescoed wall;
                            The sudden flash of the lights; and oh,
                            The orchestra, with its melody,
                            And the lilt and jingle and jubilee
                            Of "The Little Man in the Tin-shop!"
                        
                        
                            For Uncle showed me the "Leader" there,
                            With his pale, bleak forehead and long, black hair;
                            Showed me the "Second," and "Cello," and
                                "Bass,"
                            And the "B-Flat," pouting and puffing his face
                            At the little end of the been he blew
                            Silvery bubbles of music through;
                            And he coined me names of them, each in turn,
                            Some comical name that I laughed to learn,
                            Clean on down to the last and best,
                            The lively little man, never at rest,
                            Who hides away at the end of the string,
                            And tinkers and plays on everything,
                            That's "The Little Man in the
                            Tin-shop!"
                        
                        
                            Raking a drum like a rattle of hail,
                            Clinking a cymbal or castanet;
                        
                        
                        
                            Chirping a twitter or sending a wail
                            Through a piccolo that thrills me yet;
                            Reeling ripples of riotous bells,
                            And tipsy tinkles of triangles
                            Wrangled and tangled in skeins of sound
                            Till it seemed that my very soul spun round,
                            As I leaned, in a breathless joy, toward my
                            Radiant uncle, who snapped his eye
                            And said, with the courtliest wave of his hand,
                            "Why, that little master of all the band
                            Is The Little Man in the Tin-shop!
                        
                        
                            "And I've heard Verdi, the Wonderful,
                            And Paganini, and Ole Bull,
                            Mozart, Handel, and Mendelssohn,
                            And fair Parepa, whose matchless tone
                            Karl, her master, with magic bow,
                            Blent with the angels', and held her so
                            Tranced till the rapturous Infinite
                            And I've heard arias, faint and low,
                            From many an operatic light
                            Glimmering on my swimming sight
                            Dimmer and dimmer, until, at last,
                            I still sit, holding my roses fast
                            For The Little Man in the Tin-shop."
                        
                        
                            Oho! my Little Man, joy to you
                            And yoursand theirsyour lifetime through!
                            Though I've heard melodies, boy and man,
                            Since first the "show" of my life began,
                        
                        
                        
                            Never yet have I listened to
                            Sadder, madder, or gladder glees
                            Than your unharmouied harmonies;
                            For yours is the music that appeals
                            To all the fervor the boy's heart feels
                            All his glories, his wildest cheers,
                            His bravest hopes, and his brightest tears;
                            And so, with his first bouquet, he kneels
                            To "The Little Man in the Tin-shop."
                        
                    
                    
                        Little Marjorie
                        
                            WHERE is little Marjorie?"
                            There's the robin in the tree,
                            With his gallant call once more
                            From the boughs above the door!
                            There's the bluebird's note, and there
                            Are Spring-voices everywhere
                            Calling, calling ceaselessly
                            "Where is little Marjorie?"
                        
                        
                            And her old playmate, the rain,
                            Calling at the window-pane
                            In soft syllables that win
                            Not her answer from within
                            "Where is little Marjorie?"
                            Or is it the rain, ah me!
                            Or wild gusts of tears that were
                            Calling usnot calling her!
                        
                        
                        
                            "Where is little Marjorie?"
                            Oh, in high security
                            She is hidden from the reach
                            Of all voices that beseech:
                            She is where no troubled word,
                            Sob or sigh is ever heard,
                            Since God whispered tenderly
                            "Where is little Marjorie?"
                        
                    
                    
                        To a Skull
                        
                            TURN your face this way;
                            I'm not weary of it
                            Every hour of every day
                            More and more I love it
                            Grinning in that jolly guise
                            Of bare bones and empty eyes!
                        
                        
                            Was this hollow dome,
                            Where I tap my finger,
                            Once the spirit's narrow home
                            Where you loved to linger,
                            Hiding, as to-day are we,
                            From the selfsame destiny?
                        
                        
                            O'er and o'er again
                            Have I put the query
                            Was existence so in vain
                            That you look so cheery?
                            Death of such a benefit
                            That you smile, possessing it?
                        
                        
                        
                            Did your throbbing brow
                            Tire of all the flutter
                            Of such fancyings as now
                            You, at last, may utter
                            In that grin so grimly bland
                            Only death can understand?
                        
                        
                            Has the shallow glee
                            Of old dreams of pleasure
                            Left you ever wholly free
                            To float out, at leisure,
                            O'er the shoreless, trackless trance
                            Of unsounded circumstance?
                        
                        
                            Only this I read
                            In your changeless features,
                            You, at least, have gained a meed
                            Held from living creatures:
                            You have naught to ask.Beside,
                            You do grin so satisfied!
                        
                    
                    
                        The All-Kind Mother
                        
                            LO, whatever is at hand
                            Is full meet for the demand:
                            Nature ofttitnes giveth best
                            When she seentetlr chariest.
                            She bath shaper shower and sun
                            To the need of every one
                            Summer bland and n inter drear,
                            Dimpled pool and frozen mere.
                        
                        
                        
                            All thou lackest she hath still
                            Near thy finding and thy fill.
                            Yield her fullest faith, and she
                            Will endow thee royally.
                        
                        
                            Loveless weed and lily fair
                            She attendeth, here and there
                            Kindly to the weed as to
                            The lorn lily teared with dew.
                            Each to her hath use as dear
                            As the other; an thou clear
                            Thy cloyed senses thou may'st see
                            Haply all the mystery.
                            Thou shalt see the lily get
                            Its divinest blossom; yet
                            Shall the weed's tip bloom no less
                            With the song-bird's gleefulness.
                        
                        
                            Thou art poor, or thou art rich
                            Never lightest matter which;
                            All the glad gold of the noon,
                            All the silver of the moon,
                            She doth lavish on thee, while
                            Thou withholdest any smile
                            Of thy gratitude to her,
                            Baser used than usurer.
                            Shame be on thee an thou seek
                            Not her pardon, with hot cheek,
                            And bowed head, and brimming eyes,
                            At her merciful "Arise."
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Your Violin
                        
                            YOUR violin! Ah me!
                            'Twas fashioned o'er the sea,
                            In storied Italy
                            What matter where?
                            It is its voice that sways
                            And thrills me as it plays
                            The airs of other days
                            The days that were!
                        
                        
                            Then let your magic bow
                            Glide lightly to and fro.
                            I close my eyes, and so,
                            In vast content,
                            I kiss my hand to you,
                            And to the tunes we knew
                            Of old, as well as to
                            Your instrument!
                        
                        
                            Poured out of some dim dream
                            Of lulling sounds that seem
                            Like ripples of a stream
                            Twanged lightly by
                            The slender, tender hands
                            Of weeping-willow wands
                            That droop where gleaming sands
                            And pebbles lie.,. . .
                        
                        
                            A melody that swoons
                            In all the truant tunes
                            Long listless afternoons
                            Lure from the breeze,
                        
                        
                        
                            When woodland boughs are stirred,
                            And moaning doves are heard,
                            And laughter afterward
                            Beneath the trees.
                        
                        
                            Through all the chorusing,
                            I hear on leaves of Spring
                            The drip and pattering
                            Of April skies,
                            With echoes faint and sweet
                            As baby-angel feet
                            blight wake along a street
                            Of Paradise.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Dead Wife
                        
                            ALWAYS I see her in a saintly guise
                            Of lilied raiment, white as her own brow
                            When first I kissed the tear-drops to the eyes
                            That smile forever now.
                        
                        
                            Those gentle eyes! They seem the same to me,
                            As, looking through the warm dews of mine own,
                            I see them gazing downward patiently
                            Where, lost and all alone
                        
                        
                            In the great emptiness of night, I bow
                            And sob aloud for one returning touch
                            Of the dear hands that, Heaven having now,
                            I need so muchso much!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Give Me the Baby
                        
                            GIVE me the baby to hold, my dear
                            To hold and hug, and to love and kiss.
                            Ah! he will come to me, never a fear
                            Come to the nest of a breast like this,
                            As warm for trim as his face with cheer.
                            Give me the baby to hold, my dear!
                        
                        
                            Trustfully yield him to my caress.
                            "Bother," you say? What! a "bother"
                                to me?
                            
                            To fill up my soul with such happiness
                            As the love of a baby that laughs to be
                            Snuggled away where my heart can hear!
                            Give me the baby to hold, my dear!
                        
                        
                            Ah, but his hands are grimed, you say,
                            And would soil my laces and clutch my hair.
                            Well, what would pleasure one more, I pray,
                            Than the touch and tug of the wee hands there?
                            The wee hands there, and the warm face here
                            Give me the baby to hold, my dear!
                        
                        
                            Give me the baby! (Oh, won't you see?
                            . . . Somewhere, out where the green of the lawn
                            Is turning to gray, and the maple-tree
                            Is weeping its leaves of gold upon
                            A little mound, with a dead rose near. . . .)
                            Give me the baby to hold, my dear!
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    THE BOOK OF JOYOUS CHILDREN
                    
                        The Little Lady
                        
                            O THE Little Lady 's dainty
                            As the picture in a book,
                            And her hands are creamy-whiter
                            Than the water-lilies look;
                            Her laugh 's the undrown'd music
                            Of the maddest meadow-brook.
                            Yet all in vain I praise The Little Lady!
                        
                        
                            Her eyes are blue and dewy
                            As the glimmering Summer-dawn,
                            Her face is like the eglantine
                            Before the dew is gone;
                            And were that honied mouth of hers
                            A bee's to feast upon,
                            He'd be a bee bewildered, Little Lady!
                        
                        
                            Her brow makes light look sallow;
                            And the sunshine, I declare,
                            Is but a yellow jealousy
                            Awakened by her hair
                            For O, the dazzling glint of it
                            Nor sight nor soul can bear,
                            So Love goes groping for The Little Lady.
                        
                        
                        
                            And yet she 's neither Nymph nor Fay,
                            Nor yet of Angelkind:
                            She 's but a racing school-girl, with
                            Her hair blown out behind
                            And tremblingly unbraided by
                            The fingers of the Wind,
                            As it wildly swoops upon The Little Lady.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Boy Patriot
                        
                            I WANT to be a Soldier!
                            A Soldier!
                            A Soldier!
                            I want to be a Soldier, with a sabre in my hand
                            Or a little carbine rifle, or a musket on my shoulder,
                            Or just a snare-drum, snarling in the middle of the band;
                            I want to hear, high overhead, The Old Flag flap her wings
                            While all the Army, following, in chorus cheers and sings;
                            I want to hear the tramp and jar
                            Of patriots a million,
                            As gayly dancing off to war
                            As dancing a cotillion.
                        
                        
                            
                                I want to be a Soldicr!
                            
                            
                                A Soldier!
                            
                            
                                A Soldier!
                            
                            
                                I want to be a Soldier, with a sabre in my hand
                            
                            
                                Or a little carbine rifle, ore musket on my shoulder,
                            
                            
                                Or just a snare-drum, snarling in the middle of the band.
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            I want to see the battle!
                            The battle!
                            The battle!
                            I want to see the battle, and be in it to the end,
                            I want to hear the cannon clear their throats and catch the prattle
                            Of all the pretty compliments the enemy can send!
                            And then I know my wits will go,and where I should n't
                                be
                            Well, there's the spot, in any fight, that you may search for me.
                            So, when our foes have had their fill,
                            Though I'm among the dying,
                            To see The Old Flag flying still,
                            I'll laugh to leave her flying!
                        
                        
                            
                                I want to be a Soldier!
                            
                            
                                A Soldier!
                            
                            
                                A Soldier!
                            
                            
                                I want to be a Soldier, with a sabre in nay hand
                            
                            
                                Or a little carbine rifle, or a musket on my shoulder,
                            
                            
                                Or just a snare-drum, snarling in the middle of the band.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        No Boy Knows
                        
                            THERE are many things that boys may know
                            Why this and that are thus and so,
                            Who made the world in the dark and lit
                            The great sun up to lighten it:
                        
                        
                        
                            Boys know new things every day
                            When they study, or when they play,
                            When they idle, or sow and reap
                            But no boy knows when he goes to sleep.
                        
                        
                            Boys who listenor should, at least,
                            May know that the round old earth rolls East;
                            And know that the ice and the snow and the rain
                            Ever repeating their parts again
                            Are all just water the sunbeams first
                            Sip from the earth in their endless thirst,
                            And pour again till the low streams leap.
                            But no boy knows when he goes to sleep.
                        
                        
                            A boy may know what a long, glad while
                            It has been to him since the dawn's first smile,
                            When forth he fared in the realm divine
                            Of brook-laced woodland and spun-sunshine;
                            He may know each call of his truant mates,
                            And the paths they went,and the pasture-gates
                            Of the 'cross-lots home through the dusk so deep.
                            But no boy knows when he goes to sleep.
                        
                        
                            O I have followed me, o'er and o'er,
                            From the flagrant drowse on the parlor-floor,
                            To the pleading voice of the mother when
                            I even doubted I heard it then
                            To the sense of a kiss, and a moonlit room,
                            And dewy odors of locust-bloom
                            A sweet white cotand a cricket's cheep.
                            But no boy knows when he goes to sleep.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        A Masque of the Seasons
                        SCENE
                            A kitchen.Group of Children, popping corn.The Fairy Queen of the Seasons
                                discovered in the smoke of the corn-popper.Waving her wand, and, with eerie, sharp,
                                imperious ejaculations, addressing the bespelled auditors, who neither see nor hear her
                                nor suspect her presence.
                        
                        QUEEN
                        
                            Summer or Winter or Spring or Fall,
                            Which do you like the best of all?
                        
                        LITTLE JASPER
                        
                            When I'm dressed warm as warm can be,
                            And with boots, to go
                            Through the deepest snow,
                            Winter-time is the time for me!
                        
                        QUEEN
                        
                            Summer or Winter or Spring or Fall,
                            Which do you like the best of all?
                        
                        LITTLE MILDRED
                        
                            I like blossoms, and birds that sing;
                            The grass and the dew,
                            And the sunshine, too,
                            So, best of all I like the Spring.
                        
                        
                        QUEEN
                        
                            Summer or Winter or Spring or Fall,
                            Which do you like the best of all?
                        
                        LITTLE MANDEVILLE
                        
                            O little friends, I most rejoice
                            When I hear the drums
                            As the Circus comes,
                            So Summer-time's my special choice.
                        
                        QUEEN
                        
                            Summer or Winter or Spring or Fall,
                            Which do you like the best of all?
                        
                        LITTLE EDITH
                        
                            Apples of ruby, and pears of gold,
                            And grapes of blue
                            That the bee stings through.
                            Fallit is all that my heart can hold!
                        
                        QUEEN
                        
                            Soh! my lovelings and pretty dears,
                            You've each a favorite, it appears,
                            Summer and Winter and Spring and Fall.
                            That's the reason I send them all!
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Some Songs After Master-Singers
                        SONG [W. S.]
                        
                            WITH a hey! and a hi! and a hey-ho rhyme!
                            O the shepherd lad
                            He is ne'er so glad
                            As when he pipes, in the blossom-time,
                            So rare!
                            While Kate picks by, yet looks not there.
                            So rare! so rare!
                            
                                With a hey! and a hi! and a ho!
                            
                            
                                The grasses curdle where the daisies blow!
                            
                        
                        
                            With a hey! and a hi! and a hey-ho vow!
                            Then he sips her face
                            At the sweetest place
                            And ho! how white is the hawthorn now!
                            So rare!
                            And the daisied world rocks round them there.
                            So rare! so rare!
                            
                                With a hey! and a hi! and a ho!
                            
                            
                                The grasses curdle where the daisies blow!
                            
                        
                        TO THE CHILD JULIA [R. H.]
                        
                            LITTLE Julia, since that we
                            May not as our elders be,
                            Let as blithely fill the days
                            Of our youth with pleasant plays.
                        
                        
                        
                            First we 'll up at earliest dawn,
                            While as yet the dew is on
                            The sooth'd grasses and the pied
                            Blossomings of morningtide;
                            Next, with rinsd cheeks that shine
                            As the enamell'd eglantine,
                            We will break our fast on bread
                            With both cream and honey spread;
                        
                        
                            Then, with many a challenge-call,
                            We will romp from house and hall,
                            Gypsying with the birds and bees
                            Of the green-tress'd garden trees.
                            In a bower of leaf and vine
                            Thou shalt be a lady fine
                            Held in duress by the great
                            Giant I shall personate.
                            Next, when many mimics more
                            Like to these we have played o'er,
                            We'll betake us home-along
                            Hand in hand at evensong.
                        
                        THE DOLLY'S MOTHER [w. w.]
                        
                            A LITTLE maid, of summers four
                            Did you compute her years,
                            And yet how infinitely more
                            To me her age appears:
                        
                        
                        
                            I mark the sweet child's serious air,
                            At her unplayful play,
                            The tiny doll she mothers there
                            And lulls to sleep away,
                        
                        
                            Grows'neath the grave similitude
                            An infant real, to me,
                            And she a saint of motherhood
                            In hale maturity.
                        
                        
                            So, pausing in my lonely round,
                            And all unseen of her,
                            I stand uncoveredher profound
                            And abject worshipper.
                        
                        WIND OF THE SEA [A. T.]
                        
                            WIND of the Sea, come fill my sail
                            Lend me the breath of a freshening gale
                            And bear my port-worn ship away!
                            For O the greed of the tedious town
                            The shutters up and the shutters down!
                            Wind of the Sea, sweep over the bay
                            And bear me away!away!
                        
                        
                            Whither you bear me, Wind of the Sea,
                            Matters never the least to me:
                            Give me your fogs, with the sails adrip,
                        
                        
                        
                            Or the weltering path thro' the starless night
                            On, somewhere, is a new daylight
                            And the cheery glint of another ship
                            As its colors dip and dip!
                        
                        
                            Wind of the Sea, sweep over the bay
                            And bear me away!-away!
                        
                        BORN TO THE PURPLE [W. M.]
                        
                            MOST-LIKE it was this kingly lad
                            Spake out of the pure joy he had
                            In his child-heart of the wee maid
                            Whose eerie beauty sudden laid
                            A spell upon him, and his words
                            Burst as a song of any bird's:
                        
                        
                            A peerless Princess thou shalt be,
                            Through wit of love's rare sorcery:
                            To crown the crown of thy gold hair
                            Thou shalt have rubies, bleeding there
                            Their crimson splendor midst the marred
                            Pulp of great pearls, and afterward
                            Leaking in fainter ruddy stains
                            Adown thy neck-and-armlet-chains
                            Of turquoise, chrysoprase, and mad
                            Light-frenzied diamonds, dartling glad
                            Swift spirts of shine that interfuse
                            As though with lucent crystal dews
                        
                        
                        
                            That glance and glitter like split rays
                            Of sunshine, born of burgeoning Mays
                            When the first bee tilts down the lip
                            Of the first blossom, and the drip
                            Of blended dew and honey heaves
                            Him blinded midst the underleaves.
                            For raiment, Fays shall weave for thee
                            Out of the phosphor of the sea
                            And the frayed floss of starlight, spun
                            With counterwarp of the firm sun
                            A vesture of such filmy sheen
                            As, through all ages, never queen
                            Therewith strove truly to make less
                            One fair line of her loveliness.
                            Thus gowned and crowned with gems and gold,
                            Thou shalt, through centuries untold,
                            Rule, ever young and ever fair,
                            As now thou rulest, smiling there.
                        
                        SUBTLETY [R. B.]
                        
                            WHILST little Paul, convalescing, was staying
                            Close indoors, and his boisterous classmates paying
                            Him visits, with fresh school-notes and surprises
                            With nettling pride they sprung the word "Athletic,"
                            With much advice and urgings sympathetic
                            Anent "athletic exercises." Wise as
                            Lad might look, quoth Paul: "I've pondered o'er that
                            'Athletic,' but I mean to take, before that,
                            Dowustairic and outdooric exercises."
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Treasure of the Wise Man
                        
                            O THE night was dark and the night was late,
                            And the robbers came to rob him;
                            And they picked the locks of his palace-gate,
                            The robbers that came to rob him
                            They picked the locks of his palace-gate,
                            Seized his jewels and gems of state,
                            His coffers of gold and his priceless plate,
                            The robbers that came to rob him.
                        
                        
                            But loud laughed he in the morning red!
                            For of what had the robbers robbed him?
                            Ho! hidden safe, as he slept in bed,
                            When the robbers came to rob him,
                            They robbed him not of a golden shred
                            Of the childish dreams in his wise old head
                            "And they're welcome to all things else," he said,
                            When the robbers came to rob him.
                        
                    
                    
                        Evensong
                        
                            LAY away the story,
                            Though the theme is sweet,
                            There 's a lack of something yet,
                            Leaves it incomplete:
                            There 's a nameless yearning
                            Strangely undefined
                            For a story sweeter still
                            Than the written kind.
                        
                        
                        
                            Therefore read no longer
                            I 've no heart to hear
                            But just something you make up,
                            O my mother dear.
                            With your arms around me,
                            Hold me, folded-eyed,
                            Only let your voice go on
                            I 'll be satisfied.
                        
                    
                    
                        A Song of Singing
                        
                            SING! gangling lad, along the brink
                            Of wild brook-ways of shoal and deep,
                            Where killdees dip, and cattle drink,
                            And glinting little minnows leap!
                            Sing! slimpsy lass who trips above
                            And sets the foot-log quivering!
                            Sing! bittern, bumble-bee, and dove
                            Sing! Sing! Sing!
                        
                        
                            Sing as you will, O singers all
                            Who sing because you want to sing!
                            Sing! peacock on the orchard wall,
                            Or tree-toad by the trickling spring!
                            Sing! every bird on every bough
                            Sing! every living, loving thing
                            Sing any song, and anyhow,
                            But Sing! Sing! Sing!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Book of Joyous Children
                        
                            BOUND and bordered in leaf-green,
                            Edged with trellised buds and flowers
                            And glad Summer-gold, with clean
                            White and purple morning-glories
                            Such as suit the songs and stories
                            Of this book of ours,
                            Unrevised in test or scene,
                            The Book of Joyous Children.
                        
                        
                            Wild and breathless in their glee
                            Lawless rangers of all ways
                            Winding through lush greenery
                            Of Elysian valesthe viny,
                            Bowery groves of shady, shiny
                            Haunts of childish days.
                            Spread and read again with me
                            The Book of Joyous Children.
                        
                        
                            What a whir of wings, and what
                            Sudden drench of dews upon
                            The young brows, wreathed, all unsought,
                            With the apple-blossom garlands
                            Of the poets of those far lands
                            Whence all dreams are drawn
                            Set herein and soiling not
                            The Book of Joyous Children.
                        
                        
                            In their blithe companionship
                            Taste again, these pages through,
                            The hot honey on your lip
                            Of the sun-smit wild strawberry,
                            Or the chill tart of the cherry;
                        
                        
                        
                            Kneel, all glowing, to
                            The cool spring, and with it sip
                            The Book of Joyous Children.
                        
                        
                            As their laughter needs no rule,
                            So accept their language, pray.
                            Touch it not with any tool:
                            Surely we may understand it,
                            As the heart has parsed or scanned it
                            Is a worthy way,
                            Though found not in any School
                            The Book of Joyous Children.
                        
                        
                            Be a truantknow no place
                            Of prison under heaven's rim!
                            Front the Father's smiling face
                            Smiling, that you smile the brighter
                            For the heavy hearts made lighter,
                            Since you smile with Him.
                            Takeand thank Hine for His grace
                            The Book of Joyous Children.
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    MISCELLANY
                    
                        God Bless Us Every One
                        
                            "GOD bless us every one!" prayed Tiny Tim,
                            Crippled and dwarfed of body, yet so tall
                            Of soul, we tiptoe earth to look on him,
                            High towering over all.
                        
                        
                            He loved the loveless world, nor dreamed indeed
                            That it, at best, could give to him, the while,
                            But pitying glances, when his only need
                            Was but a cheery smile.
                        
                        
                            And thus he prayed, "God bless us every one!"
                            Enfolding all the creeds within the span
                            Of his child-heart; and so, despising none,
                            Was nearer saint than man.
                        
                        
                            I like to fancy God, in Paradise,
                            Lifting a finger o'er the rhythmic swing
                            Of chiming harp and song, with eager eyes
                            Turned earthward, listening
                        
                        
                            The Anthem stilledthe Angels leaning there
                            Above the golden wallsthe morning sun
                            Of Christmas bursting flower-like with the prayer,
                            "God bless us every one!"
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        When She Comes Home
                        
                            WHEN she comes home again! A thousand ways
                            I fashion, to myself, the tenderness
                            Of my glad welcome: I shall trembleyes;
                            And touch her, as when first in the old days
                            I touched her girlish hand, nor dared upraise
                            Mine eyes, such was my faint heart's sweet distress.
                            Then silence: and the perfume of her dress:
                            The room will sway a little, and a haze
                            Cloy eyesightsoulsight, evenfor a space;
                            And tearsyes; and the ache here in the throat,
                            To know that I so ill deserve the place
                            Her arms make for me; and the sobbing note
                            I stay with kisses, ere the tearful face
                            Again is hidden in the old embrace.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Romaunt of King Mordameer
                        
                            HO! did ye hear of Mordameer,
                            The King of Slumberland!
                            A lotus-crown upon his brow
                            A poppy in his hand,
                            And all the elves that people dreams
                            To bow at his command.
                        
                        
                            His throne is wrought of blackest night,
                            Enriched with rare designs
                            Wherein the blazing comet runs
                            And writhes and wreaths and twines
                            About a crescent angel-face
                            That ever smiling shines.
                        
                        
                        
                            The dais is of woven rays
                            Of starlight fringed with shade,
                            And jewelled o'er with gems of dew,
                            And dyed and interlaid
                            With every gleaming tint and hue
                            Of which the flowers are made.
                        
                        
                            And when the day has died away
                            In darkness o'er the land,
                            The King bends down his dusky face
                            And takes the sleeper's hand,
                            And lightly o'er his folded eyes
                            He waves his magic wand.
                        
                        
                            And lo! within his princely home,
                            Upon his downy bed,
                            With soft and silken coverlets
                            And curtains round him spread,
                            The rich man rolls in troubled sleep,
                            And moans in restless dread:
                        
                        
                            His eyes are closed, yet Mordameer
                            May see their stony stare
                            As plainly fixed in agony
                            As though the orbs were bare
                            And glaring at the wizard throng
                            That fills the empty air:
                        
                        
                            A thousand shapes, with phantom japes,
                            Dance o'er the sleeper's sight,
                            With fingers bony-like and lean,
                        
                        
                        
                            And faces pinched and white,
                            And withered cheeks, and sunken eyes
                            With ever-ravening sight.
                        
                        
                            And such the dreams that Mordameer
                            Brings to the child of Pride,
                            The worn and wasted forms that he
                            Hath stinted and denied
                            Of those who filled his coffers up
                            And empty-handed died.
                        
                        
                            And then again he waves his wand:
                            And from his lair of straw
                            The felon, with his fettered limbs,
                            Starts up with fear and awe,
                            And stares with starting eyes upon
                            A vision of the law:
                        
                        
                            A grim procession passes by,
                            The while he glares in fear
                            With faces, from a wanton's smile
                            Down to a demon's leer,
                            The woman marching at the front,
                            The hangman at the rear.
                        
                        
                            All ways are clear to Mordameer:
                            The ocean knows his tread;
                            His feet are free on land or sea:
                            Above the sailor's head
                            He hangs a dream of home, and bends
                            Above his cottage-bed:
                        
                        
                        
                            And, nestled in the mother's arms,
                            A child surpassing fair,
                            In slumber lies, its tiny hands
                            Entangled in her hair,
                            And round its face a smile that moves
                            Its lips as though in prayer.
                        
                        
                            And lo! the good king feasts its eyes
                            With fruits from foreign shores,
                            And pink-lipped shells that ever mock
                            The ocean as it roars;
                            And in the mother's arms he folds
                            The form that she adores.
                        
                        
                            Through all the hovels of the poor
                            He steals with noiseless tread,
                            And presses kisses o'er and o'er
                            Where sorrow's tears are shed,
                            Till old caresses live once more
                            That are forever dead.
                        
                        
                            Above the soldier in his tent
                            Are glorious battles fought;
                            And o'er the prince's velvet couch,
                            And o'er the peasant's cot,
                            And o'er the pallet of disease
                            His wondrous spells are wrought.
                        
                        
                            He bends him o'er the artist's cot,
                            And fills his dazzled mind
                            With airy forms that float about
                        
                        
                        
                            Like clouds in summer wind,
                            O'er landscapes that the angels wrought
                            And God Himself designed.
                        
                        
                            And drifting through the poet's dreams
                            The seraph trails her wings,
                            And fills the chancels of his soul
                            With heavenly whisperings;
                            Till, swooning with delight, he hears
                            The song he never sings.
                        
                        
                            He walks the wide world's every way,
                            This monarch grand and grim;
                            All paths that reach the human heart,
                            However faint and dim,
                            He journeys, for the darkest night
                            Is light as day to him.
                        
                        
                            And thus the lordly Mordameer
                            Rules o'er his mystic realm,
                            With gems from out the star's red core
                            To light his diadem,
                            And kings and emperors to kneel
                            And kiss his garment's hem.
                        
                        
                            For once, upon a night of dreams,
                            Adown the aisles of space
                            I strayed so far that I forgot
                            Mine own abiding-place,
                            And wandered into Slumberland,
                            And met him face to face.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Werewife
                        
                            SHE came to me in a dazzling guise
                            Of gleaming tresses and glimmering eyes,
                            With long, limp lashes that drooped and made
                            For their baleful glances bowers of shade;
                            And a face so whiteso white and sleek
                            That the roses blooming in either cheek
                            Flamed and burned with a crimson glow
                            Redder than ruddiest roses blow
                            Redder than blood of the roses know
                            That Autumn spills in the drifted snow.
                            And what could my fluttering, moth-winged soul
                            Do but hover in her control?
                            With its little, bewildered bead-eyes fixed
                            Where the gold and the white and the crimson mixed?
                            And when the tune of her low laugh went
                            Up from that ivory instrument
                            That you would have called her throat, I swear
                            The notes built nests in her gilded hair,
                            And nestled and whistled and twittered there,
                            And wooed me and won me to my despair.
                            And thus it was that she lured me on,
                            Till the latest gasp of my love was gone,
                            And my soul lay dead, with a loathing face
                            Turned in vain from her dread embrace,
                            For even its poor dead eyes could see
                            Her sharp teeth sheathed in the flesh of me,
                            And her dripping lips, as she turned to shake
                            The red froth off that her greed did make,
                            As my heart gripped hold of a deathless ache,
                            And the kiss of her stung like the fang of a snake.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Out of the Dark and the Dearth
                        
                            HO! but the darkness was densely black!
                            And young feet faltered and groped their way,
                            With never the gleam of a star, alack!
                            Nor a moonbeam's lamest ray!
                            Blind of light as the blind of sight.
                            And that was the nightthe night!
                        
                        
                            And out of the blackness, vague and vast,
                            And out of the dark and the dearth, behold!
                            A great ripe radiance grew at last
                            And burst like a bubble of gold,
                            Gilding the way that the feet danced on.
                            And that was the dawnThe Dawn!
                        
                    
                    
                        For You
                        
                            FOR you, I could forget the gay
                            Delirium of merriment,
                            And let my laughter die away
                            In endless silence of content.
                            I could forget, for your dear sake,
                            The utter emptiness and ache
                            Of every loss I ever knew.
                            What could I not forget for you?
                        
                        
                            I could forget the just deserts
                            Of mine own sins, and so erase
                            The tear that burns, the smile that hurts,
                            And all that mars and masks my face.
                        
                        
                        
                            For your fair sake I could forget
                            The bonds of life that chafe and fret,
                            Nor care if death were false or true.
                            What could I not forget for you?
                        
                        
                            What could I not forget? All me!
                            One thing I know would still abide
                            Forever in my memory,
                            Though all of love were lost beside
                            I yet would feel how first the wine
                            Of your sweet lips made fools of mine
                            Until they sting, all drunken through
                            "What could I not forget for you?"
                        
                    
                    
                        Laughter
                        
                            WITHIN the cosiest corner of my dreams
                            He sits, high-throned above all gods that be
                            Portrayed in marble-cold mythology,
                            Since from his joyous eyes a twinkle gleams
                            So warm with life and light it ever seems
                            Spraying in mists of sunshine over me,
                            And mingled with such rippling ecstasy
                            As overleaps his lips in laughing streams.
                            Ho! look on him, and say if he be old
                            Or youthful! Hand in hand with gray old Time
                            He toddled when an infant; and, behold!
                            He bath not aged, but to the lusty prime
                            Of babyhoodhis brow a trifle bold
                            His hair a ravelled nimbus of gray gold.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Witch of Erkmurden
                        
                            I
                            WHO cantereth forth in the night so late
                            So late in the night, and so nigh the dawn?
                            'Tis The Witch of Erkmurden who leapeth the gate
                            Of the old churchyard where the three Sprites wait
                            Till the whir of her broom is gone.
                        
                        
                            And who peereth down from the belfry tall,
                            With the ghost-white face and the ghastly stare,
                            With lean hands clinched in the grated wall
                            Where the red vine rasps and the rank leaves fall,
                            And the clock-stroke drowns his prayer?
                        
                        
                            II
                            The wee babe wails, and the storm grows loud,
                            Nor deeper the dark of the night may be,
                            For the lightning's claw, with a great wet cloud,
                            Hath wiped the moon and the wild-eyed crowd
                            Of the stars out wrathfully.
                        
                        
                            Knuckled and kinked as the hunchback shade
                            Of a thorn-tree bendeth the beldam old
                            Over the couch where the mother-maid,
                            With her prayerful eyes, and the babe are laid,
                            Waiting the doom untold.
                        
                        
                            "Mother, O Mother, I only crave
                            Mercy for him and the babenot me!"
                        
                        
                        
                            "Hush! for it maketh my brain to rave
                            Of my two white shrouds, and my one wide grave,
                            And a mound for my children three."
                        
                        
                            "Mother, O Mother, I only pray
                            Pity for him who is son to thee
                            And more than my brother." "Wilt hush, I say!
                            Though I meet thee not at the Judgment Day,
                            I will bury my children three!"
                        
                        
                            "Then hark! O Mother, I hear his cry
                            Hear his curse from the church-tower now,
                            'Ride thou witch till thy hate shall die,
                            Yet hell as heaven eternally
                            Be sealed to such as thou!'"
                        
                        
                            An infant's wailthen a laugh, god wot,
                            That strangled the echoes of deepest hell;
                            And a thousand shuttles of lightning shot,
                            And the moon bulged out like a great red blot,
                            And a shower of blood-stars fell.
                        
                        
                            III
                            There is one wide grave scooped under the eaves
                            Under the eaves as they weep and weep;
                            And, veiled by the mist that the dead storm weaves,
                            The hag bends low, and the earth receives
                            Mother and child asleep.
                        
                        
                            There's the print of the hand at either throat,
                            And the frothy ooze at the lips of each,
                            But both smile up where the new stars float,
                        
                        
                        
                            And the moon sails out like a silver boat
                            Unloosed from a stormy beach.
                        
                        
                            IV
                            Bright was the morn when the sexton gray
                            Twirled the rope of the old church bell,
                            But it answered not, and he tugged away
                            And lo, at his feet a dead man lay
                            Dropped down with a single knell.
                        
                        
                            And the scared wight found, in the lean hand gripped,
                            A scrip which read: "O the grave is wide,
                            But it empty waits, for the low eaves dripped
                            Their prayerful tears, and the three Sprites slipped
                            Away with my babe and bride."
                        
                    
                    
                        Songs Tuneless
                        
                            I
                            HE kisses me! Ah, now, at last,
                            He says good-night as it should be,
                            His great warm eyes bent yearningly
                            Above my facehis arms locked fast
                            About me, and mine own eyes dim
                            With happy tears for love of him.
                        
                        
                            He kisses me! Last night, beneath
                            A swarm of stars, he said I stood
                            His one fair form of womanhood,
                        
                        
                        
                            And springing, shut me in the sheath
                            Of a caress that almost hid
                            Me from the good his kisses did.
                        
                        
                            He kisses me! He kisses me!
                            This is the sweetest song I know,
                            And so I sing it very low
                            And faint, and O so tenderly
                            That, though you listen, none but he
                            May hear it as he kisses me.
                        
                        
                            II
                            "How can I make you love me more?"
                            A thousand times she asks me this,
                            Her lips uplifted with the kiss
                            That I have tasted o'er and o'er,
                            Till now I drain it with no sense
                            Other than utter indolence.
                        
                        
                            "How can I make you love me more?"
                            A thousand times her questioning face
                            Has nestled in its resting-place
                            Unanswered, till, though I adore
                            This thing of being loved, I doubt
                            Not I could get along without.
                        
                        
                            "How can she make me love her more?"
                            Ah! little woman, if, indeed,
                            I might be frank as is the need
                            Of frankness, I would fall before
                            Her very feet, and there confess
                            My love were more if hers were less.
                        
                        
                        
                            III
                            Since I am old I have no care
                            To babble silly tales of when
                            I loved, and lied, as other men
                            Have done, who boasted here and there,
                            They would have died for the fair thing
                            They after murdered, marrying.
                        
                        
                            Since I am old I reason thus
                            No thing survives, of all the past,
                            But just regret enough to last
                            Us till the clods have smothered us;
                            Then, with our dead loves, side by side,
                            We may, perhaps, be satisfied.
                        
                        
                            Since I am old, and strive to blow
                            Alive the embers of my youth
                            And early loves, I find, in sooth,
                            An old man's heart may burn so low,
                            'Tis better just to calmly sit
                            And rake the ashes over it.
                        
                    
                    
                        Tommy Smith
                        
                            DIMPLE-CHEEKED and rosy-lipped,
                            With his cap-rim backward tipped,
                            Still in fancy I can see
                            Little Tommy smile on me
                            Little Tommy Smith.
                        
                        
                        
                            Little unsung Tommy Smith
                            Scarce a name to rhyme it with;
                            Yet most tenderly to me
                            Something sings unceasingly
                            Little Tommy Smith.
                        
                        
                            On the verge of some far land
                            Still forever does he stand,
                            With his cap-rim rakishly
                            Tilted; so he smiles on me
                            Little Tommy Smith.
                        
                        
                            Elder-blooms contrast the grace
                            Of the rover's radiant facemdash;
                            Whistling back, in mimicry,
                            "OldBobWhite!" all liquidly
                            Little Tommy Smith.
                        
                        
                            Oh, my jaunty statuette
                            Of first love, I see you yet,
                            Though you smile so mistily,
                            It is but through tears I see,
                            Little Tommy Smith.
                        
                        
                            But, with crown tipped back behind,
                            And the glad hand of the wind
                            Smoothing back your hair, I see
                            Heaven's best angel smile on me,
                            Little Tommy Smith.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Eternity
                        
                            OWHAT a weary while it is to stand,
                            Telling the countless ages o'er and o'er,
                            Till all the finger-tips held out before
                            Our dazzled eyes by heaven's starry hand
                            Drop one by one, yet at some dread command
                            Are held again, and counted evermore!
                            How feverish the music seems to pour
                            Along the throbbing veins of anthems grand!
                            And how the cherubim sing on and on
                            The seraphim and angelsstill in white
                            Still harpingstill enrapturedfar withdrawn
                            In hovering armies tranced in endless flight!
                            . . . God's mercy! is there never dusk or dawn,
                            Or any crumb of gloom to feed upon?
                        
                    
                    
                        Death
                        
                            Lo, I am dying! And to feel the King
                            Of Terrors fasten on me, steeps all sense
                            Of life, and love, and loss, and everything,
                            In such deep calms of restful indolence,
                            His keenest fangs of pain are sweet to me
                            As fusd kisses of mad lovers' lips
                            When, flung shut-eyed in spasmed ecstasy,
                            They feel the world spin past them in eclipse,
                            And so thank God with ever-tightening lids!
                            But what I see, the soul of me forbids
                            All utterance of; and what I hear and feel,
                            The rattle in my throat could ill reveal
                        
                        
                        
                            Though it were music to your ears as to
                            Mine own.Press closercloserI have grown
                            So great, your puny arms about me thrown
                            Seem powerless to hold me here with you;
                            I slip awayI waverandI fall
                            Christ! What a plunge! Where am I dropping? All
                            My breath bursts into dustI can not cry
                            I whirlI reel and veer up overhead,
                            And drop flat-faced againstagainstthe sky
                            Soh, bless me! I am dead!
                        
                    
                    
                        A Twintorette
                        
                            HO! my little maiden
                            With the glossy tresses,
                            Come thou and dance with me
                            A measure all divine;
                            Let my breast be laden
                            With but thy caresses
                            Come thou and glancingly
                            Mate thy face with mine.
                        
                        
                            Thou shalt trill a rondel,
                            While my lips are purling
                            Some dainty twitterings
                            Sweeter than the birds';
                            And, with arms that fondle
                            Each as we go twirling,
                            We will kiss, with titterings,
                            Lisps and loving words.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Dolores
                        
                            LITHE-ARMED, and with satin-soft shoulders
                            As white as the cream-crested wave;
                            With a gaze dazing every beholder's,
                            She holds every gazer a slave:
                            Her hair, a fair haze, is outfloated
                            And flared in the air like a flame;
                            Bare-breasted, bare-browed and bare-throated
                            Too smooth for the soothliest name.
                        
                        
                            She wiles you with wine, and wrings for you
                            Ripe juices of citron and grape;
                            She lifts up her lute and sings for you
                            Till the soul of you seeks no escape;
                            And you revel and reel with mad laughter,
                            And fall at her feet, at her beck,
                            And the scar of her sandal thereafter
                            You wear like a gyve round your neck.
                        
                    
                    
                        There Was a Cherry-Tree
                        
                            THERE was a cherry-tree. Its bloomy snows
                            Cool even now the fevered sight that knows
                            No more its airy visions of pure joy
                            As when you were a boy.
                        
                        
                            There was a cherry-tree. The Bluejay set
                            His blue against its whiteO blue as jet
                            He seemed there then!But nowWhoever knew
                            He was so pale a blue!
                        
                        
                        
                            There was a cherry-treeOur child-eyes saw
                            The miracle:Its pure white snows did thaw
                            Into a crimson fruitage, far too sweet
                            But for a boy to eat.
                        
                        
                            There was a cherry-tree, give thanks and joy!
                            There was a bloom of snowThere was a boy
                            There was a Bluejay of the realest blue
                            And fruit for both of you.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Light of Love
                        
                            Song
                        
                        
                            THE clouds have deepened o'er the night
                            Till, through the dark profound,
                            The moon is but a stain of light,
                            And all the stars are drowned;
                            And all the stars are drowned, my love,
                            And all the skies are drear;
                            But what care we for light above,
                            If light of love is here?
                        
                        
                            The wind is like a wounded thing
                            That beats about the gloom
                            With baffled breast and drooping wing,
                            And wail of deepest doom;
                            And wail of deepest doom, my love;
                            But what have we to fear
                            From night, or rain, or winds above,
                            With love and laughter here?
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        While the Heart Beats Young
                        
                            WHILE the heart beats young!O the splendor of the
                            Spring,
                            With all her dewy jewels on, is not so fair a thing!
                            The fairest, rarest morning of the blossom-time of May
                            Is not so sweet a season as the season of to-day
                            While Youth's diviner climate folds and holds us, close
                            caressed,
                            As we feel our mothers with us by the touch of face and
                            breast;
                            Our bare feet in the meadows, and our fancies up among
                            The airy clouds of morningwhile the heart beats young.
                        
                        
                            While the heart beats young and our pulses leap and dance,
                            With every day a holiday and life a glad romance,
                            We hear the birds with wonder, and with wonder watch
                            their flight
                            Standing, still the more enchanted, both of hearing and of
                            sight,
                            When they have vanished wholly,for, in fancy, wing-to-
                            wing
                            We fly to Heaven with them; and, returning, still we sing
                            The praises of this lower Heaven with tireless voice and
                            tongue,
                            Even as the Master sanctionswhile the heart beats young.
                        
                        
                            While the heart beats young!While the heart beats young!
                            O green and gold old Earth of ours, with azure overhung
                            
                            And looped with rainbows!grant us yet this grassy lap of thine
                            We would be still thy children, through the shower and the shine!
                            So pray we, lisping, whispering, in childish love and trust,
                            With our beseeching hands and faces lifted from the dust
                            By fervor of the poem, all unwritten and unsung,
                            Thou givest us in answer, while the heart beats young.
                        
                    
                    
                        Ere I Went Mad
                        
                            ERE I went mad
                            O you may never guess what dreams I had!
                            Such hosts of happy things did come to me.
                            One time, it seemed, I knelt at some one's knee,
                            My wee lips threaded with a strand of prayer,
                            With kinks of kisses in it here and there
                            To stay and tangle it the while I knit
                            A mother's long-forgotten name in it.
                            Be sure, I dreamed it all, but I was glad
                            Ere I went mad!
                        
                        
                            Ere I went mad,
                            I dreamed there came to me a fair-faced lad,
                            Who led me by the wrist where blossoms grew
                            In grassy lands, and where the skies were blue
                            As his own eyes. And he did lisp and sing,
                            And weave me wreaths where I sat marvelling
                            What little prince it was that crowned me queen
                            And caught my face so cunningly between
                            His dimple-dinted hands, and kept me glad
                            Ere I went mad!
                        
                        
                        
                            Ere I went mad,
                            Not even winter weather made me sad
                            I dreamed, indeed, the skies were ne'er so dull
                            That his smile might not make them beautiful.
                            And now, it seemed, he had grown O so fair
                            And straight and strong that, when he smoothed my hair,
                            I felt as any lily with drooped head
                            That leans, in fields of grain unharvested,
                            By some lithe stalk of barleypure and glad
                            Ere I went mad!
                        
                        
                            Ere I went mad,
                            The last of all the happy dreams I had
                            Was of a peerless kinga conqueror
                            Who crowned me with a kiss, and throned me for
                            One hour! Ah, God of Mercy! what a dream
                            To tincture life with! Yet I made no scream
                            As I awakenedwith these eyes you see,
                            That may not smile till love comes back to me,
                            And lulls me back to those old dreams I had
                            Ere I went mad.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Speeding of the King's Spite
                        
                            A KINGestranged from his loving Queen
                            By a foolish royal whim
                            Tired and sick of the dull routine
                            Of matters surrounding him
                            Issued a mandate in this wise:
                            "The dower of my daughter's hand
                            I will give to him who holds this prize,
                            The strangest thing in the land."
                        
                        
                        
                            But the King, sad sooth! in this grim decree
                            Had a motive low and mean;
                            'Twas a royal piece of chicanery,
                            To harry and spite the Queen
                            For King though he was, and beyond compare
                            He had ruled all things save one
                            Then blamed the Queen that his only heir
                            Was a daughternot a son.
                        
                        
                            The girl had grown, in the mother's care,
                            Like a bud in the shine and shower
                            That drinks of the wine of the balmy air
                            Till it bloom into matchless flower;
                            Her waist was the rose's stem that bore
                            The flowerand the flower's perfume
                            That ripens on, till it bulges o'er,
                            With its wealth of bud and bloom.
                        
                        
                            And she had a loverlowly sprung,
                            But a purer, nobler heart
                            Never spake in a courtlier tongue
                            Or wooed with a dearer art:
                            And the fair pair paled at the King's decree;
                            But the smiling Fates contrived
                            To have them wed, in a secrecy
                            That the Queen herself connived
                        
                        
                            While the grirn King's heralds scoured the land
                            And the countries round about,
                            Shouting aloud, at the King's command,
                            A challenge to knave or lout,
                        
                        
                        
                            Prince or peasant,"The mighty King
                            Would have ye understand
                            That he who shows him the strangest thing
                            Shall have his daughter's hand!"
                        
                        
                            And thousands flocked to the royal throne,
                            Bringing a thousand things
                            Strange and curious;One, a bone
                            The hinge of a fairy's wings:
                            And one, the glass of a mermaid queen,
                            Gemmed with a diamond dew,
                            Where, down in its reflex, dimly seen,
                            Her face smiled out at you.
                        
                        
                            One brought a cluster of some strange date,
                            With a subtle and searching tang
                            That seemed, as you tasted, to penetrate
                            The heart like a serpent's fang;
                            And back you fell for a spell entranced,
                            As cold as a corpse of stone,
                            And heard your brains, as they laughed and danced
                            And talked in an undertone.
                        
                        
                            One brought a bird that could whistle a tune
                            So piercingly pure and sweet,
                            That tears would fall from the eyes of the moon
                            In dewdrops at its feet;
                            And the winds would sigh at the sweet refrain,
                            Till they swooned in an ecstasy,
                            To awaken again in a hurricane
                            Of riot and jubilee.
                        
                        
                        
                            One brought a lute that was wro't of a shell
                            Luminous as the shine
                            Of a new-born star in a dewy dell,
                            And its strings were strands of wine
                            That sprayed at the Fancy's touch and fused,
                            As your listening spirit leant
                            Drunken through with the airs that oozed
                            From the o'ersweet instrument.
                        
                        
                            One brought a tablet of ivory
                            Whereon no thing was writ,
                            But, at nightand the dazzled eyes would see
                            Flickering lines o'er it,
                            And each, as you read from the magic tome,
                            Lightened and died in flame,
                            And the memory held but a golden poem
                            Too beautiful to name.
                        
                        
                            Till it seemed all marvels that ever were known
                            Or dreamed of under the sun
                            Were brought and displayed at the royal throne,
                            And put by, one by one;
                            Till a graybeard monster came to the King
                            Haggard and wrinkled and old
                            And spread to his gaze this wondrous thing,
                            A gossamer veil of gold.
                        
                        
                            Strangely marvellousmocking the gaze
                            Like a tangle of bright sunshine,
                            Dipping a million glittering rays
                            In a baptism divine:
                        
                        
                        
                            And a maiden, sheened in this gauze attire
                            Sifting a glance of her eye
                            Dazzled men's souls with a fierce desire
                            To kiss and caress her anddie.
                        
                        
                            And the grim King swore by his royal beard
                            That the veil had won the prize,
                            While the gray old monster blinked and leered
                            With his lashless, red-rimmed eyes,
                            As the fainting form of the princess fell,
                            And the mother's heart went wild,
                            Throbbing and swelling a muffled knell
                            For the dead hopes of her child.
                        
                        
                            But her clouded face with a faint smile shone,
                            As suddenly, through the throng,
                            Pushing his way to the royal throne,
                            A fair youth strode along,
                            While a strange smile hovered about his eyes,
                            As he said to the grim old King:
                            "The veil of gold must lose the prize;
                            For I have a stranger thing."
                        
                        
                            He bent and whispered a sentence brief;
                            But the monarch shook his head,
                            With a look expressive of unbelief
                            "It can't be so," he said;
                            "Or give me proof; and I, the King,
                            Give you my daughter's hand.
                            For certs THAT is a stranger thing
                            
                                The strangest thing In the land!"
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            Then the fair youth, turning, caught the Queen
                            In a rapturous caress,
                            While his lithe form towered in lordly mien,
                            As he said in a brief address:
                            "My fair bride's mother is this; and, lo,
                            As you stare in your royal awe,
                            By this pure kiss do I proudly show
                            
                                A love far a mother-in-law!"
                            
                        
                        
                            Then a thaw set in on the old King's mood,
                            And a sweet Spring freshet came
                            Into his eyes, and his heart renewed
                            Its love for the favored dame:
                            But often he has been heard to declare
                            That "he never could clearly see
                            How, in the deuce, such a strange affair
                            Could have ended so happily!"
                        
                    
                    
                        We Are Not Always Glad When We Smile
                        
                            WE are not always glad when we smile:
                            Though we wear a fair face and are gay,
                            And the world we deceive
                            May not ever believe
                            We could laugh in a happier way.
                            Yet, down in the deeps of the soul,
                            Ofttimes, with our faces aglow,
                            There's an ache and a moan
                            That we know of alone,
                            And as only the hopeless may know.
                        
                        
                        
                            We are not always glad when we smile,
                            For the heart, in a tempest of pain,
                            May live in the guise
                            Of a smile in the eyes
                            As a rainbow may live in the rain;
                            And the stormiest night of our woe
                            May hang out a radiant star
                            Whose light in the sky
                            Of despair is a lie
                            As black as the thunder-clouds are.
                        
                        
                            We are not always glad when we smile!
                            But the conscience is quick to record,
                            All the sorrow and sin
                            We are hiding within
                            Is plain in the sight of the Lord:
                            And ever, O ever, till pride
                            And evasion shall cease to defile
                            The sacred recess
                            Of the soul, we confess
                            We are not always glad when we smile.
                        
                    
                    
                        Busch and Tommy
                        
                            LITTLE Busch and Tommy Hays
                            Small the theme, but large the praise,
                            For two braver brothers,
                            Of such toddling years and size,
                            Bloom of face, and blue of eyes,
                            Never trampled soldier-wise
                            On the rights of mothers!
                        
                        
                        
                            Even boldly facing their
                            Therapeutic father's air
                            Of complex abstraction,
                            But to kindlekindlier gaze,
                            Wake more smiles and gracious ways
                            Ay, nor find in all their days
                            Ampler satisfaction!
                        
                        
                            Hail ye, then, with chirp and cheer,
                            All wan patients, waiting here
                            Bitterer medications!
                            Busch and Tommy, tone us, too.
                            How our life-blood leaps anew,
                            Under loving touch of you
                            And your ministrations!
                        
                    
                    
                        A Variation
                        
                            I AM tired of this!
                            Nothing else but loving!
                            Nothing else but kiss and kiss,
                            Coo, and turtle-doving!
                            Can't you change the order some?
                            Hate me just a littlecome!
                        
                        
                            Lay aside your "dears,"
                            "Darlings," "kings," and
                                "princes!"
                            Call me knave, and dry your tears
                            Nothing in me winces,
                            Call me something low and base
                            Something that will suit the case!
                        
                        
                        
                            Wish I had your eyes
                            And their drooping lashes!
                            I would dry their teary lies
                            Up with lightning-flashes
                            Make your sobbing lips unsheathe
                            All the glitter of your teeth!
                        
                        
                            Can't you lift one word
                            With some pang of laughter
                            Louder than the drowsy bird
                            Crooning 'neath the rafter?
                            Just one bitter word, to shriek
                            Madly at me as I speak!
                        
                        
                            How I hate the fair
                            Beauty of your forehead!
                            How I hate your fragrant hair!
                            How I hate the torrid
                            Touches of your splendid lips,
                            And the kiss that drips and drips!
                        
                        
                            Ah, you pale at last!
                            And your face is lifted
                            Like a white sail to the blast,
                            And your hands are shifted
                            Into fists: and, towering thus,
                            You are simply glorious!
                        
                        
                            Now before me looms,
                            Something more than human;
                        
                        
                        
                            Something more than beauty blooms
                            In the wrath of Woman
                            something to bow down before
                            Reverently and adore
                        
                    
                    
                        An Out-Worn Sappho
                        
                            HOW tired I am! I sink down all alone
                            Here by the wayside of the Present. Lo,
                            Even as a child I hide my face and moan
                            A little girl that may no farther go:
                            The path above me only seems to grow
                            More rugged, climbing still, and ever briered
                            With keener thorns of pain than these below;
                            And O the bleeding feet that falter so
                            And are so very tired!
                        
                        
                            Why, I have journeyed from the far-off Lands
                            Of Babyhoodwhere baby-lilies blew
                            Their trumpets in mine ears, and filled my hands
                            With treasures of perfume and honey-dew,
                            And where the orchard shadows ever drew
                            Their cool arms around me when my checks were fired
                            With too much joy, and lulled mine eyelids to,
                            And only let the starshine trickle through
                            In sprays, when I was tired!
                        
                        
                            Yet I remember, when the butterfly
                            Went flickering about me like a flame
                            That quenched itself in roses suddenly,
                            How oft I wished that I might blaze the same,
                        
                        
                        
                            And in some rose-wreath nestle with my name
                            While all the world looked on it and admired.
                            Poor moth!Along my wavering flight toward fame
                            The winds drive backward, and my wings are lame
                            And broken, bruised and tired!
                        
                        
                            I hardly know the path from those old times;
                            I know at first it was a smoother one
                            Than this that hurries past me now, and climbs
                            So high, its far cliffs even hide the sun
                            And shroud in gloom my journey scarce begun.
                            I could not do quite all the world required
                            I could not do quite all I should have done,
                            And in my eagerness I have outrun
                            My strengthand I am tired. . . .
                        
                        
                            Just tired! But when of old I had the stay
                            Of mother-hands, O very sweet indeed
                            It was to dream that all the weary way
                            I should but follow where I now must lead
                            For long ago they left me in my need,
                            And, groping on alone, I tripped and mired
                            Among rank grasses where the serpents breed
                            In knotted coils about the feet of speed.
                            There first it was I tired.
                        
                        
                            And yet I staggered on, and bore my load
                            Right gallantly: The sun, in summer-time,
                            In lazy belts came slipping down the road
                            To woo me on with many a glimmering rhyme
                            Rained from the golden rim of some fair clime,
                        
                        
                        
                            That, hovering beyond the clouds, inspired
                            My failing heart with fancies so sublime
                            I half forgot my path of dust and grime,
                            Though I was growing tired.
                        
                        
                            And there were many voices cheering me:
                            I listened to sweet praises where the wind
                            Went laughing o'er my shoulders gleefully
                            And scaterring my love-songs far behind;
                            Until, at last, I thought the world so kind
                            So rich in all my yearning soul desired
                            So generousso loyally inclined,
                            I grew to love and trust it. . . . I was blind
                            Yea, blind as I was tired!
                        
                        
                            And yet one hand held me in creature-touch:
                            And O, how fain it was, how true and strong,
                            How it did hold my heart up like a crutch,
                            Till, in my dreams, I joyed to walk along
                            The toilsome way, contented with a song
                            'Twas all of earthly things I had acquired,
                            And 'twas enough, I feigned, or right or wrong,
                            Since, binding me to mana mortal thong
                            It stayed me, growing tired. . . .
                        
                        
                            Yea, I had e'en resigned me to the strait
                            Of earthly rulershiphad bowed my head
                            Acceptant of the master-mindthe great
                            One loverlord of all,the perfected
                            Kiss-comrade of my soul;had stammering said
                            My prayers to him;allall that he desired
                            I rendered sacredly as we were wed.
                        
                        
                        
                            Naynay!'twas but a myth I worshippd.
                            AndGod of love!how tired!
                        
                        
                            For, O my friends, to lose the latest grasp
                            To feel the last hope slipping from its hold
                            To feel the one fond hand within your clasp
                            Fall slack, and loosen with a touch so cold
                            Its pleasure may not warm you as of old
                            Before the light of love had thus expired
                            To know your tears are worthless, though they rolled
                            Their torrents out in molten drops of gold.
                            God's pity! I am tired!
                        
                        
                            And I must rest.Yet do not say "She died,"
                            In speaking of me, sleeping here alone.
                            I kiss the grassy grave I sink beside,
                            Ang close mine eyes in slumber all mine own:
                            Hereafter I shall neither sob nor moan
                            Nor murmur one complaint;all I desired,
                            And failed in life to find, will now be known
                            So let me dream. Good night! And on the stone
                            Say simply: She was tired.
                        
                    
                    
                        After Death
                        
                            AH! this delights me more than words could tell,
                            To just lie stark and still, with folded hands
                            That tremble not at greeting or farewell,
                            Nor fumble foolishly in loosened strands
                            Of woman's hair, nor grip with jealousy
                            To find her face turned elsewhere smilingly.
                        
                        
                        
                            With slumbrous lids, and mouth in mute repose,
                            And lips that yearn no more for any kiss
                            Though it might drip, as from the red-lipped rose
                            The dewdrop drips, 'twere not so sweet as this
                            Unutterable density of rest
                            That reigns in every vein of brain and breast!
                        
                        
                            And thussoaked with still laughter through and through
                            I lie here dreaming of the forms that pass
                            Above my grave, to drop, with tears, a few
                            White flowers that but curdle the green grass;
                            And if they read such sermons, they could see
                            How I do pity them that pity me.
                        
                    
                    
                        To the Wine-God Merlus
                        
                            [A Toast of Jucklet's]
                        
                        
                            HO! ho! thou jolly god, with kinkd lips
                            And laughter-streaming eyes, thou liftest up
                            The heart of me like any wassail-cup,
                            And from its teeming brim, in foaming drips,
                            Thou blowest all my cares. I cry to thee,
                            Between the sips:Drink long and lustily;
                            Drink thou my ripest joys, my richest mirth,
                            My maddest staves of wanton minstrelsy;
                            Drink every song I've tinkered here on earth
                            With any patch of music; drink! and be
                            Thou drainer of my soul, and to the lees
                            Drink all my lover-thrills and ecstasies;
                            And with a final gulpho! ho!drink me,
                            And roll me o'er thy tongue eternally.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        A Lounger
                        
                            HE leaned against a lamp-post, lost
                            In some mysterious reverie:
                            His head was bowed; his arms were crossed;
                            He yawned, and glanced evasively:
                            Uncrossed his arms, and slowly put
                            Them back again, and scratched his side
                            Shifted his weight from foot to foot,
                            And gazed out no-ward, idle-eyed.
                        
                        
                            Grotesque of form and face and dress,
                            And picturesque in every way
                            A figure that from day to day
                            Drooped with a limper laziness;
                            A figure such as artists lean,
                            In pictures where distress is seen,
                            Against low hovels where we guess
                            No happiness has ever been.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Willow
                        
                            WHO shall sing a simple ditty all about the Willow,
                            Dainty-fine and delicate as any bending spray
                            That dandles high the happy bird that flutters there to trill a
                            Tremulously tender song of greeting to the May.
                        
                        
                            Bravest, too, of all the trees!none to match your daring,
                            First of greens to greet the Spring and lead in leafy sheen;
                            Aye, and you're the lastalmost into winter wearing
                            Still the leaf of loyaltystill the badge of green.
                        
                        
                        
                            Ah, my lovely Willow!let the Waters lilt your graces 
                            They alone with limpid kisses lave your leaves above,
                            Flashing back your sylvan beauty, and in shady places
                            Peering up with glimmering pebbles, like the eyes of love.
                        
                    
                    
                        The Quest
                        
                            I AM looking for Love. Has he passed this way,
                            With eyes as blue as the skies of May,
                            And a face as fair as the summer dawn?
                            You answer back, but I wander on,
                            For you say: "Oh, yes; but his eyes were gray,
                            And his face as dim as a rainy day."
                        
                        
                            Good friends, I query, I search for Love;
                            His eyes are as blue as the skies above,
                            And his smile as bright as the midst of May
                            When the truce-bird pipes: Has he passed this way?
                            And one says: "Ay; but his face, alack!
                            Frowned as he passed, and his eyes were black."
                        
                        
                            O who will tell me of Love? I cry!
                            His eyes are as blue as the mid-May sky,
                            And his face as bright as the morning sun
                            And you answer mock me every one
                            That his eyes were dark, and his face was wan,
                            And he passed you frowning and wandered on.
                        
                        
                            But stout of heart will I onward fare,
                            Knowing my Love is beyondsomewhere,
                        
                        
                        
                            The Love I seek, with the eyes of blue,
                            And the bright, sweet smile unknown of you;
                            And on from the hour his trail is found
                            I shall sing sonnets the whole year round.
                        
                    
                    
                        "Dream"
                        
                            BECAUSE her eyes were far too deep
                            And holy for a laugh to leap
                            Across the brink where sorrow tried
                            To drown within the amber tide;
                            Because the looks, whose ripples kissed
                            The trembling lids through tender mist,
                            Were dazzled with a radiant gleam
                            Because of this I called her "Dream."
                        
                        
                            Because the roses growing wild
                            About her features when she smiled
                            Were ever dewed with tears that fell
                            With tenderness ineffable;
                            Because her lips might spill a kiss
                            That, dripping in a world like this,
                            Would tincture death's myrrh-bitter stream
                            To sweetnessso I called her "Dream."
                        
                        
                            Because I could not understand
                            The magic touches of a hand
                            That seemed, beneath her strange control,
                            To smooth the plumage of the soul
                            And calm it, till, with folded wings,
                            It half forgot its flutterings,
                        
                        
                        
                            And, nestled in her palm, did seem
                            To trill a song that called her "Dream."
                        
                        
                            Because I saw her, in a sleep
                            As dark and desolate and deep
                            And fleeting as the taunting night
                            That flings a vision of delight
                            To some lorn martyr as he lies
                            In slumber ere the day he dies
                            Because she vanished like a gleam
                            Of glory, do I call her "Dream."
                        
                    
                    
                        The Little White Hearse
                        
                            AS the little white hearse went glimmering by
                            The man on the coal-cart jerked his lines,
                            And smutted the lid of either eye,
                            And turned and stared at the business signs;
                            And the street-car driver stopped and beat
                            His hands on his shoulders, and gazed up-street
                            Till his eye on the long track reached the sky
                            As the little white hearse went glimmering by.
                        
                        
                            As the little white hearse went glimmering by
                            A stranger petted a ragged child
                            In the crowded walks, and she knew not why,
                            But he gave her a coin for the way she smiled;
                            And a boot-black thrilled with a pleasure strange,
                            As a customer put back his change
                            With a kindly hand and a grateful sigh,
                            As the little white hearse went glimmering by.
                        
                        
                        
                            As the little white hearse went glimmering by
                            A man looked out of the window dim,
                            And his cheeks were wet and his heart was dry,
                            For a dead child even were dear to him!
                            And he thought of his empty life, and said:
                            "Loveless alive, and loveless dead
                            Nor wife nor child in earth or sky!"
                            As the little white hearse went glimmering by.
                        
                    
                    
                        Three Several Birds
                        
                            The Romancer, the Poet, and the Bookman I THE ROMANCER
                            THE Romancer's a nightingale,
                            The moon wanes dewy-dim
                            And all the stars grow faint and pale
                            In listening to him.
                            To him the plot least plausible
                            Is of the most avail,
                            He simply masters it because
                            He takes it by the tale.
                        
                        
                            
                                O he's a nightingale,
                            
                            
                                His theme will never fail
                            
                            
                                It gains applause of all
                                because
                            
                            
                                He takes it by the tale!
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            The Romancer's a nightingale:
                            His is the sweetest note
                            The sweetest, woe-begonest wail
                            Poured out of mortal throat:
                            So, glad or sad, he ever draws
                            Our best godspeed and hail;
                            He highest lifts his themebecause
                            He takes it by the tale.
                        
                        
                            O he's a nightingale,
                            His theme will never fail'
                            It gains appalause of all'because
                            He takes it by the tale!
                        
                        
                            II THE POET
                            The bobolink he sings a single song,
                            Right along,
                            And the robin sings another, all his own
                            One alone;
                            And the whippoorwill, and bluebird,
                            And the cockadoodle-doo-hird;
                            But the mocking-bird he sings in every tone
                            Or chirrup-note of merriment or moan.
                        
                        
                            So the Poet he's the mocking-bird of men,
                            He steals his songs and sings them o'er again
                            And yet beyond beiliving
                            They're the sweeter for his thieving.
                        
                        
                        
                            So we'll howl for Mister Mocking-bird
                            And have hint out again!
                        
                        
                            It's mighty fond we are of bobolinks,
                            And chewinks;
                            And we dote on dinky robins, quite a few
                            Yes, we do;
                            And we love the dove, and bluebird,
                            And the cockadoodle-doo-bird,
                            But the mocking-bird's the bird for me and you,
                            Through and through,
                            Since he sings as everybody wants him to.
                        
                        
                            Ho! the Poet he's the mocking-bird of men,
                            He steals his songs and sings them o'er again;
                            And yet beyond believing
                            They're the sweeter for his thieving.
                            So we'll howl for Mister Mocking-bird
                            And have him out again!
                        
                        
                            III BOOKMAN'S CATCH
                            The Bookman he's a humming-bird
                            His feasts are honey-fine,
                            (With hi! hilloo!
                            And clover-dew
                            And roses lush and rare!)
                            His roses are the phrase and word
                            Of olden tomes divine;
                        
                        
                        
                            (With hi! and ho!
                            And pinks ablow
                            And posies everywhere!)
                            The Bookman he's a humming-bird,
                            He steals from song to song
                            He scents the ripest-blooming rhyme,
                            And takes his heart along
                            And sacks all sweets of bursting verse
                            And ballads, throng on throng.
                            (With ho! and hey!
                            And brook and brae,
                            And brinks of shade and shine!)
                        
                        
                            A humming-bird the Bookman is
                            Though cumbrous, gray and grim,
                            (With hi! hilloo!
                            And honey-dew
                            And odors musty-rare!)
                            He bends him o'er that page of his
                            As o'er the rose's rim.
                            (With hi! and ho!
                            And pinks aglow
                            And roses everywhere!)
                            Ay, he's the featest humming-bird,
                            On airiest of wings
                            He poises pendent o'er the poem
                            That blossoms as it sings
                            God friend him as he dips his beak
                            In such delicious things!
                            (With ho! and hey!
                            And world away
                            And only dreams for him!)
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        To Bliss Carman
                        
                            HE is the morning's poet
                            The bard of mount and moor,
                            The minstrel fine of dewy shine,
                            The dawning's troubadour:
                        
                        
                            The brother of the bluebird, '
                            'Mid blossoms, throng on throng,
                            Whose singing calls, o'er orchard walls,
                            Seem glitterings of song.
                        
                        
                            He meets, with brow uncovered,
                            The sunrise through the mist,
                            With raptured eyes that range the skies
                            And seas of amethyst:
                        
                        
                            The brambled rose clings to him;
                            The breezy wood receives
                            Him as the guest she loves the best
                            And laughs through all her leaves:
                        
                        
                            Pan and his nymphs and dryads
                            They hear, in breathless pause,
                            This earth-born wight lilt his delight,
                            And envy him because. . .
                        
                        
                            He is the morning's poet
                            The bard of mount and moor,
                            The minstrel fine of dewy shine,
                            The dawning's troubadour.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        His Mother
                        
                            DEAD! my wayward boymy own
                            Not the Law's! but minethe good
                            God's free gift to me alone,
                            Sanctified by motherhood.
                            "Bad," you say: Well, who is not?
                            "Brutal""with a heart of stone"
                            And "red-handed."Ah! the hot
                            Blood upon your own!
                            I come not, with downward eyes,
                            To plead for him shamedly,
                            God did not apologize
                            When He gave the boy to me.
                            Simply, I make ready now For
                            ForHis verdict.You prepare
                            You have killed us bothand how
                            Will you face us There!
                        
                    
                    
                        Song of Parting
                        
                            SAY farewell, and let me go;
                            Shatter every vow!
                            All the future can bestow
                            Will be welcome now!
                            And if this fair hand I touch
                            I have worshipped overmuch,
                            It was my mistake and so
                            Say farewell, and let me go.
                        
                        
                            Say farewell, and let me go:
                            Murmur no regret,
                            Stay your tear-drops ere they flow
                            Do not waste them yet!
                        
                        
                        
                            They might pour as pours the rain,
                            And not wash away the pain:
                            I have tried them and I know.
                            Say farewell, and let me go.
                        
                        
                            Say farewell, and let me go:
                            Think me not untrue
                            True as truth is, even so
                            I am true to you!
                            If the ghost of love may stay
                            Where my fond heart dies to-day,
                            I am with you alwayso,
                            Say farewell, and let me go.
                        
                    
                    
                        Some Imitations
                        
                            I POMONA (Madison cawein)
                            OH, the golden afternoon!
                            Like a ripened summer day
                            That had fallen oversoon
                            In the weedy orchard-way
                            As an apple, ripe in June.
                        
                        
                            He had left his fishrod leant
                            O'er the footlog by the spring
                            Clomb the hill-path's high ascent,
                            Whence a voice, down showering,
                            Lured him, wondering as he went.
                        
                        
                        
                            Not the voice of bee nor bird,
                            Nay, nor voice of man nor child,
                            Nor the creek's shoal-alto heard
                            Blent with warblings sweet and wild
                            Of the midstream, music-stirred.
                        
                        
                            'Twas a goddess! As the air
                            Swirled to eddying silence, he
                            Glimpsed about him, half aware
                            Of some subtle sorcery
                            Woven round him everywhere.
                        
                        
                            Suavest slopes of pleasaunce, sown
                            With long lines of fruited trees
                            Weighed o'er grasses all unmown
                            But by scythings of the breeze
                            In prone swaths that flashed and shone
                        
                        
                            Like silk locks of Faunus sleeked
                            This, that way, and contrawise,
                            Through whose bredes ambrosial leaked
                            Oily amber sheens and dyes
                            Starred with petals purple-freaked
                        
                        
                            Here the bellflower swayed and swung,
                            Greenly belfried high amid
                            Thick leaves in whose covert sung
                            Hermit-thrush, or katydid,
                            Or the glowworm nightly clung.
                        
                        
                            Here the damson, peach and pear;
                            There the plum, in Tyrian tints,
                        
                        
                        
                            Like great grapes in clusters rare;
                            And the metal-heavy quince
                            Like a plummet dangled there.
                        
                        
                            All ethereal, yet all
                            Most material,a theme
                            Of some fabled festival
                            Save the fair face of his dream
                            Smiling o'er the orchard wall.
                        
                        
                            II THE PASSING OP A ZEPHYR (Sidney Lanier)
                            UP from, and out of, and over the opulent woods and
                            the plains,
                            Lo! I leap nakedly loose, as the nudest of gods might
                            choose,
                            For to dash me away through the morning dews
                            And the rathe Spring rains
                            Pat and pet the little green leaves of the trees and the grass,
                            Till they seem to linger and cling, as I pass,
                            And are touched to delicate contemporaneous tears of the
                            rain and the dew,
                            That lure mine eyes to weeping likewise, and to laughter,
                            too:
                            For I am become as the balmiest, stormiest zephyr of
                            Spring,
                            With manifold beads of the marvelous dew and the rain to
                            string
                        
                        
                        
                            On the bended strands of the blossoms, blown
                            And tossed and tousled and overthrown,
                            And shifted and whirled, and lifted unfurled
                            In the victory of the blossoming
                            Of the flags of the flowery world.
                            Yea, and behold! and a riotous zephyr, at last,
                            I subside; I abate; I pass by; I am past.
                            And the small, hoarse bass of the bumble-bee
                            Is my requiem-psalm,
                            And I fling me down to a listless, loitering, long eternity
                            Of amiable calm.
                        
                        
                            III A RHYME FOR CHRISTMAS
                            IF Browning only were here
                            This yule-ish time o'the year
                            This mul-ish time o' the year,
                            Stubbornly still refusing
                            To add to the rhymes we've been using
                            Since the first Christmas-glee
                            (One might say) chantingly
                            Rendered by rudest hinds
                            Of the pelt-clad shepherding kinds
                            Who didn't know Song from b-
                            U-double-1's-foot!pah!
                            (Haply the old Egyptian ptah
                            Though I'd hardly wager a baw-
                            Beeor a bumble, for that
                            And that's flat!). . .
                        
                        
                        
                            But the thing that I want to get at
                            Is a rhyme for Christmas
                            
                            Nay! nay! nay! nay! not isthmus
                            
                            The t- and the h-sounds covertly are
                            Gnawing the nice auricular
                            Senses until one may hear them gnar
                            And the terminal, too, for mas is mus
                            So that will not do for us.
                            Try for itsigh for itcry for itdie for it!
                            O but if Browning were here to apply for it,
                            
                                He'd rhyme you Christmas
                            
                            
                                He'd make a mist pass
                            
                            Oversomething o' rather
                            Or find you the rhyme's very brother
                            In lovers that kissed fast
                            
                                To baffle the moon as he'd lose the t-final
                            In fast as it blended with to (mark the spinal
                            Elisontip-clipt as exquisitely nicely
                            And hyper-exactly sliced to precisely
                            The extremest technical need): Or he'd twist
                            
                            
                                glass,
                            Or he'd have a kissed lass,
                            Or shake 'neath our noses some great giant fist-
                            
                                mass
                            
                            No matter! If Robert were here, he could do it,
                            Though it took us till Christmas next year to see
                            through it.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        To Benj. S. Parker
                        BORN, FEBRUARY 10, 1833DIED, MARCH 14, 1911
                            Written for The Indianapolis Star
                        
                        
                            YOU sang the song of rare delight
                            "'Tis morning and the days are long"
                            A morning fresh and fair and bright
                            As ever dawned in happy song;
                            A radiant air, and here and there
                            Were singing birds on sprays of bloom,
                            And dewy splendors everywhere,
                            And heavenly breaths of rose perfume
                            All rapturous things were in the song
                            " Tis morning and the days are long."
                        
                        
                            O singer of the song divine,
                            Though now you turn your face away
                            With never word for me or mine
                            Nor smile forever and a day,
                            We guess your meaning, and rejoice
                            In what has come to youthe meed
                            Beyond the search of mortal voice
                            And only in the song indeed
                            With you forever, as the song,
                            " 'Tis morning and the days are long."
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        L'Envoy
                        
                            SNOW is in the air
                            Chill in blood and vein,
                            Winter everywhere
                            Save in heart and brain!
                            Ho! the happy year will we
                            Mimic as we've found it,
                            Head of itand you, and me
                            With the holly round it!
                        
                        
                            Frost and sleet, alack!
                            Wind as bleak as wrath
                            Whips our faces back
                            As we foot the path;
                            But the yearfrom there to here
                            Copy as we've found it,
                            Heart uplike the head, my dear,
                            With the holly round it!
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    THE FLYING ISLANDS OF THE NIGHT
                    
                        
                            FOR the Song's sake; even so:
                            Humor it, and let it go
                            All untamed and wild of wing
                            Leave it ever truanting.
                        
                        
                            Be its flight elusive!Lo,
                            For the Song's sakeeven so 
                            Yield it but an ear as kind
                            As thou perkest to the wind.
                        
                        
                            Who will name us what the seas
                            Have sung on for centuries?
                            For the Song's sake! Even so
                            Sing, O Seas! and Breezes, blow!
                        
                        
                            Sing! or Wave or Wind or Bird
                            Sing! nor ever afterward
                            Clear thy meaning to usNo!
                            For the Song's sake. Even so.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        DRAMATIS PERSON
                        
                            KRUNG Kingof the Spirks
                            CRESTILLOMEEM
                                The QueenSecond Consort to Krung
                            SPRAIVOLL
                                The Tune-Fool
                            AMPHINE PrinceSon of Krung
                            DWAINIE
                                A Princessof the Wunks
                            JUCKLET
                                A Dwarfof the Spirks
                            CREECH
                                and GRITCHFANG Nightmares
                            Counsellors, Courtiers, Heralds, etc., etc., etc.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Flying Islands of the Night
                        ACT I SCENETHE FLYING ISLANDS
                        
                        SCENE I. Spirkland. Time, Moondawn. Interior Court of
                            KRUNG. A vast pendent star burns dimly in dome above throne. CRESTILLOMEEM
                            discovered languidly reclaining at foot of empty throne, an overturned goblet
                                lying near, as though just drained. The Queen, in seeming dazed,
                                ecstatic state, raptly gazing upward, listening. Swarming forms and features in air
                                above, seem eeriely coming and going, blending and intermingling in domed ceiling-space
                                of court. Weird music. Mystic, luminous, beautiful faces detached from swarm, float,
                                singly, forward,tremulously, and in succession, poising in mid-air and chanting.
                        
                        
                            FIRST FACE
                            And who hath known her like as I
                            Have known her?since the envying sky
                            Filched from her cheeks its morning-hue,
                            And from her eyes its glory, too,
                            Of dazzling shine and diamond-dew.
                        
                        
                            SECOND FACE
                            
                                I knew herlong and long before
                            High o loosed her palm and thought:
                            "What awful splendor have I wrought
                            To dazzle earth and Heaven, too!"
                        
                        
                        
                            THIRD FACE
                            I knew herlong ere Night was o'er
                            Ere o yet conjectured what
                            To fashion Day ofay, before
                            He sprinkled stars across the floor
                            Of dark, and swept that form of mine,
                            E'en as a fleck of blinded shine,
                            Back to the black where light was not.
                        
                        
                            FOURTH FACE
                            Ere day was dreamt, I saw her face
                            Lift from some starry hiding-place
                            Where our old moon was kneeling while
                            She lit its features with her smile.
                        
                        
                            FIFTH FACE
                            I knew her while these islands yet
                            Were nestlingsere they feathered wing,
                            Or e'en could gape with them or get
                            Apoise the laziest-ambling breeze,
                            Or cheep, chirp out, or anything!
                            When Time crooned rhymes of nurseries
                            Above themnodded, dozed and slept,
                            And knew it not, till, wakening,
                            The morning-stars agreed to sing
                            And Heaven's first tender dews were wept.
                        
                        
                        
                            SIXTH FACE
                            I knew her when the jealous hands
                            Of Angels set her sculptured form
                            Upon a pedestal of storm
                            And let her to this land with strands
                            Of twisted lightnings.
                        
                        
                            SEVENTH FACE
                            And I heard
                            Her voice ere she could tone a word
                            Of any but the Seraph-tongue.
                            And O sad-sweeter than all sung-
                            Or word-said things!to hear her say,
                            Between the tears she dashed away:
                            "Lo, launched from the offended sight
                            Of o!anguish infinite
                            Is ours, O Sisterhood of Sin!
                            Yet is thy service mine by right,
                            And, sweet as I may rule it, thus
                            Shall Sin's myrrh-savor taste to us
                            Sin's Empresslet my reign begin!"
                        
                        
                            CHORUS OF SWARMING FACES
                            We follow thee forever on!
                            Thro' darkest night and dimmest dawn;
                            Thro' storm and calmthro' shower and shine,
                            Hear thou our voices answering thine:
                            We followcraving but to be
                            Thy followers.We follow thee
                            We follow, follow, follow thee!
                        
                        
                        
                            We follow ever on and on
                            O'er hill and hollow, brake and lawn;
                            Thro' grewsome vale and dread ravine
                            Where light of day is never seen.
                            We waver not in loyalty,
                            Unfaltering we follow thee
                            We follow, follow, follow thee!
                        
                        
                            We follow ever on and on
                            The shroud of night around us drawn,
                            Though wet with mists, is wild-ashine
                            With stars to light that path of thine;
                            Thw glow-worms, too, befriend usWe
                            Shall fail not as we follow thee.
                            We follow, follow, follow thee!
                        
                        
                            We follow ever on and on
                            The notched reeds we pipe upon
                            Are pithed with music, keener blown
                            And blither where thou leadest lone
                            Glad pangs of its ecstatic glee
                            Shall reach thee as we follow thee.
                            We follow, follow, follow thee!
                        
                        
                            We follow ever on and on
                            We know the ways thy feet have gone,
                            The grass is greener, and the bloom
                            Of roses richer in perfume
                            And birds of every blooming tree
                            Sing sweeter as we follow thee.
                            We follow, follow, follow thee!
                        
                        
                        
                            We follow ever on and on;
                            For wheresover thou hast gone
                            We hasten joyous, knowing there
                            Is sweeter sin than otherwhere
                            Leave still its latest cup, that we
                            May drain it as we follow thee.
                            We follow, follow, follow thee!
                        
                        [Throughout final stanzas, faces in fore-and forms in background slowly vanish,
                                and voices gradually fail to sheer silence.CRESTILLOMEEM, rising, and wistfully gazing and listening; then, evidently regaining wonted
                                self, looks to be assured of being wholly alonethen speaks.]
                        
                            CRESTILLOMEEM
                            The Throne is throwing wide its gilded arms
                            To welcome me. The Throne of Krung! Ha! ha!
                            Leap up, ye lazy echoes, and laugh loud!
                            For I, Crestillomeem, the Queenha! ha!
                            Do fling my richest mirth into your mouths
                            That ye may fatten ripe with mockery!
                            I marvel what the kingdom would become
                            Were I not here to nurse it like a babe
                            And dandle it above the reach and clutch
                            Of intermeddlers in the royal line
                            And their attendant serfs. Ho! Jucklet, ho!
                            'Tis time my knarld warp of nice anatomy
                            Were here, to weave us on upon our mesh
                            Of silken villanies. Ho! Jucklet, ho!
                        
                        [Lifts secret door in pave and drops a star-bud through opening. Enter JUCKLET
                            from below.]
                        
                        
                            JUCKLET
                            
                                Spang sprit! my gracious Queen! but thou hast scorched
                            My left ear to a cinder! and my head
                            Rings like a ding-dong on the coast of death!
                            For, patient hate! thy hasty signal burst
                            Full in my face as hitherward I came!
                            But though my lug be fried to crisp, and my
                            Singed wig stinks like a little sun-stewed Wunk,
                            I stretch my fragrant presence at thy feet
                            And kiss thy sandal with a blistered lip.
                        
                        
                            CRESTILLOMEEM
                            Hold! rare-done fool, lest I may bid the cook
                            To bake thee brown! How fares the King by this?
                        
                        
                            JUCKLET
                            Safe couched midmost his lordly hoard of books,
                            I left him sleeping like a quinsied babe
                            Next the guest-chamber of a poor man's house:
                            But ere I came away, to rest mine ears,
                            I salved his welded lids, uncorked his nose,
                            And o'er the odorous blossom of his lips
                            Re-squeezed the tinctured sponge, and felt his pulse
                            Come staggering back to regularity.
                            And four hours hence his Highness will awake
                            And Peace will take a nap!
                        
                        
                            CRESTILLOMEEM
                            
                                Ha! What mean you? 540
                        
                        
                        
                            JUCKLET [Ominously]
                            I mean that he suspects our knaveries.
                            Some covert spy is burrowed in the court
                            Nay, and I pray thee startle not aloud,
                            But mute thy very heart in its out-throb,
                            And let the blanching of thy cheeks but be
                            A whispering sort of pallor!
                        
                        
                            CRESTILLOMEEM
                            A spy?Here?
                        
                        
                            JUCKLET
                            Ay, hereand haply even now. And one
                            Whose unseen eye seems ever focused keen
                            Upon our action, and whose hungering ear
                            Eats every crumb of counsel that we drop
                            In these our secret interviews!For he
                            The Kingthrough all his talking-sleep to-day
                            Hath jabbered of intrigue, conspiracy
                            Of treachery and hate in fellowship,
                            With dire designs upon his royal bulk,
                            To oust it from the Throne.
                        
                        
                            CRESTILLOMEEM
                            He spake my name?
                        
                        
                            JUCKLET
                            O Queen, he speaks not ever but thy name
                            Makes melody of every sentence.Yea,
                            He thinks thee even true to him as thou
                            Art fickle, false and subtle! O how blind
                        
                        
                        
                            And lame, and deaf and dumb, and worn and weak,
                            And faint, and sick, and all-commodious
                            His dear love is! In sooth, O wifely one,
                            Thy malleable spouse doth mind me of
                            That pliant hero of the bald old catch
                            "The Lovely Husband."Shall I wreak the thing?
                        
                        [Singswith much affected gravity and grimace]
                        
                            O a lovely husband he was known,
                            He loved his wife and her a-lone;
                            She reaped the harvest he had sown;
                            She ate the meat; he picked the bone.
                            With mixed admirers every size,
                            She smiled on each without disguise;
                            This lovely husband closed his eyes
                            Lest he might take her by surprise.
                        
                        [Aside, exclamatory]
                        Chorious Uproarious!
                        [Then pantomime as though pulling at bell-ropesinging in pent, explosive
                                utterance.]
                        
                            Trot!
                            Run!
                            Wasn't he a handy hubby?
                            What
                            Fun
                            She could plot and plan!
                            Not
                            One
                            Other such a dandy hubby
                            As this lovely man!
                        
                        
                        
                            CRESTILLOMEEM
                            Or talk or tune, wilt thou wind up thy tongue
                            Nor let it tangle in a knot of words!
                            What said the King?
                        
                        He said: "Crestillomeem
                        
                            JUCKLET [With recovered reverence]
                            O that she knew this thick distress of mine!
                            Her counsel would anoint me and her voice
                            Would flow in limpid wisdom o'er my woes
                            And, like a love-balm, lave my secret grief
                            And lull my sleepless heart!" [Aside] And so went on,
                            Struggling all maudlin in the wrangled web
                            That well-nigh hath cocooned him!
                        
                        
                            CRESTILLOMEEM
                            Did he yield
                            No hint of this mysterious distress
                            He needs must hold sequestered from his Queen?
                            What said he in his talking-sleep by which
                            Some clew were gained of how and when and whence
                            His trouble came?
                        
                        
                            JUCKLET
                            In one strange phase he spake
                            As though some sprited lady talked with him.
                            Full courteously he said: "In woman's guise
                            Thou comest, yet I think thou art, in sooth,
                            But woman in thy form.Thy words are strange
                            And leave me mystified. I feel the truth
                            Of all thou hast declared, and yet so vague
                        
                        
                        
                            And shadow-like thy meaning is to me,
                            I know not how to act to ward the blow
                            Thou sayest is hanging o'er me even now."
                            And then, with open hands held pleadingly,
                            He asked, "Who is my foe?"And o'er
                                his face
                            A sudden pallor flashed, like death itself,
                            As though, if answer had been given, it
                            Had fallen like a curse.
                        
                        
                            CRESTILLOMEEM
                            I'll stake my soul
                            Thrice over in the grinning teeth of doom,
                            'Tis Dwainie of the Wunks who peeks and peers
                            With those fine eyes of hers in our affairs
                            And carries Krung, in some discuise, these hints
                            Of our intent! See thou that silence falls
                            Forever on her lips, and that the sight
                            She wastes upon our secret action blurs
                            With gray and grisly scum that shall for aye
                            Conceal us from her gaze while she writhes blind
                            And fangless as the fat worms of the grave!
                            Here! take this tuft of downy druze, and when
                            Thou comest on her, fronting full and fair,
                            Say "Skerzham!" thrice, and fluff it in her
                                face.
                        
                        
                            JUCKLET
                            Thou knowest scanty magic, O my Queen,
                            But all thou dost is fairly excellent
                            And this charm work, thou shalt have fuller faith
                            Than still I must withhold.
                        
                        [Takes charm, with extravagant salutation]
                        
                        
                            CRESTILLOMEEM
                            Thou gibing knave!
                            Thou thing! Dost dare to name my sorcery
                            As any trifling gift? Behold what might
                            Be thine an thy deserving wavered not
                            In stable and abiding service to
                            Thy Queen!
                        
                        [She presses suddenly her palm upon Us eyes, then lifts her softly opening hand
                                upward, his gaze following, where, slowly shaping in the air above them, appears
                                semblanceor counter-self of CRESTILLOMEEM, clothed
                                in most radiant youth, her maiden-face bent downward to a moon-lit sward, where kneels a
                                lover-knightflawless in manly symmetry and princely beauty,yet none other than the
                                counter-self of JUCKLET
                            eeriely and with strage sweetness singing, to some curiously tinkling
                                instrument, the praises of its queenly mistress: JUCKLET
                            and CRESTILLOMEEM
                            transfixed belowtrancedly gazing on their mystic selves above.]
                        
                            SEMBLANCE OF JUCKLET [Sings]
                            Crestillomeem!
                            Crestillomeem!
                            
                                Soul of my slumber!Dream of my dream!
                            
                            
                                Moonlight may fall not as goldenly fair
                            
                            
                                As falls the gold of thine opulent hair
                            
                            
                                Nay, nor the starlight as dazzlingly gleam
                            
                            
                                As gleam thine eyes, 'MeemaCrestillomeem!
                            
                            
                                Stars of the skies, 'Meema
                            
                        
                        
                            Crestillomeem!
                        
                        
                        
                            SEMBLANCE OF CRESTILLOMEEN [SINGS]
                            
                                O Prince divine!
                            
                            
                                O Prince divine!
                            
                            
                                Tempt than me not with that sweet voice of thine!
                            
                            
                                Though my proud brow bear the blase of a crown,
                            
                            
                                Lo, at thy feet must its glory bow down,
                            
                            
                                That from the dust thou mayest lift me to shine
                            
                            
                                Heaven'd in thy heart's rapture, O Prince divine!
                            
                            
                                Queen of thy love ever,
                            
                            
                                O Prince divine!
                            
                        
                        
                            SEMBLANCE OF JUCKLET [Sings]
                            
                                Crestillomeem!
                            
                            
                                Crestillomeem!
                            
                            
                                Our life shall flow as a muscial stream
                            
                            
                                Windinglyplacidly on shall it wend,
                            
                            
                                Marged with mazhoora-bloom banks without end
                            
                            
                                Word-birds shall call thee and dreamily scream,
                            
                            
                                "Where dost thou cruise, 'MeemaCrestillomeem?
                            
                            
                                Whither away, 'Meema?
                            
                            
                                Crestillomeem!"
                            
                        
                        Duo [Vision and voices gradually failing away]
                        
                            
                                Crestillomeem!
                            
                            
                                Crestillomeem!
                            
                            
                                Soul of my slumber!Dream of my dream!
                            
                            
                                Star of Love's light, 'MeemaCrestillomeem!
                            
                            
                                Crescent of Night, 'Meema!
                            
                            
                                Crestillomeem!
                            
                        
                        [With song, vision likewise fails utterly]
                        
                        CRESTILLOMEEM
                        [To JUCKLET, still trancedly staring
                            upward]
                        How now, thou clabber-braind spudge! Thou squelk!thou
                        
                            JUCKLET
                            Nay, O Queen! contort me not
                            To more condensd littleness than now
                            My shamd frame incurreth on itself,
                            Seeing what might fare with it, didst thou will
                            Kindly to nip it with thy magic here
                            
                            And leave it living in that form i' the air,
                            Forever pranking o'er the daisied sward
                            In wake of sandal-prints that dint the dews
                            As lightly as, in thy late maidenhood,
                            Thine own must needs have done in flighting from
                            The dread encroachments of the King.
                        
                        CRESTILLOMEEM
                        
                        Naypeace!
                        JUCKLET
                        
                        
                            So be it, O sweet Mystic.But I crave
                            One service of thy magic yet.Amphine!
                            
                            Breed me some special, damnd philter for
                            Amphinethe fair Amphine!to chuck it him,
                            Some serenade-tide, in a sodden slug
                            O' pastry, 'twixt the door-crack and a screech
                        
                        
                        
                            O' rusty hinges.Hey! Amphine, the fair!
                            
                            And let me, too, elect his doom, O Queen!
                            Listed against thee, he, too, doubtless hath
                            Been favored with an outline of our scheme.
                            And I would kick my soul all over hell
                            If I might juggle his fine figure up
                            In such a shape as mine!
                        
                        
                            CRESTILLOMEEM
                            Then this:When thou
                            Canst come upon him bent above a flower,
                            Or any blooming thing, and thou, arear,
                            Shalt reach it first and, thwartwise, touch it fair,
                            And with thy knuckle flick him on the knee,
                            
                                Thenhis fine form will shrink and shrivel up
                            As warty as a toad'sso hideous,
                            Thine own shall seem a marvel of rare grace!
                            Though idly speak'st thou of my mystic skill,
                            'Twas that which won the King for me;'twas that
                            Bereft him of his daughter ere we had
                            Been wedded yet a haed:She strangely went
                            Astray one moonset from the palace-steps
                            She wentnor yet returned.Was it not strange?
                            She would be wedded to an alien prince
                            The morrow midnightto a prince whose sire
                            
                                I once knew, in lost hours of lute and song,
                            When he was but a princeI but a mouth
                            For him to lift up sippingly and drain
                            To lees most ultimate of stammering sobs
                            And maudlin wanderings of blinded breath.
                        
                        
                        
                            JUCKLET [Aside]
                            
                                Twigg-brebblets! but her Majesty hath speech
                            That doth bejuice all metaphor to drip
                            And spray and mist of sweetness!
                        
                        
                            CRESTILLOMEEM [Confusedly]
                            Where was I?
                            O, ay!The princess wentshe strangely went!
                            E'en as I deemed her lover-princeling would
                            As strangely go, were she shot not soon restored.
                            As so he did:That airy penalty
                            The jocund Fates provide our love-lorn wights
                            In this glad island: So for thrice three nights
                            They spun the prince his line and marked him pay
                            It out (despite all warnings of his doom)
                            In fast and sleepless search for herand then
                            
                            They tripped his fumbling feet and he fellup!
                            
                                Up!as 'tis writsheer past Heaven's flinching walls
                            And topmost cornices.Upup and on!
                            And, it is grimly guessed of those who thus
                            For such a term bemoan of absent love,
                            And so fall up wise, they must needs fall on
                            And on and onand onand onand on!
                            Ha! ha!
                        
                        
                            JUCKLET
                            
                                Quahh! but the prince's holden breath
                            Must ache his throat by this! But, O my Queen,
                            What of the princess?and
                        
                        
                        
                            CRESTILLOMEEN
                            
                                The princess?Ay
                            The princess! Ay, she wentshe strangely went!
                            And when the dainty vagrant came not back
                            Both sire and son in apprehensive throes
                            Of royal griefthe very Throne befogged
                            In sighs and tears!when all hope waned at last,
                            And all the spies of Spirkland, in her quest,
                            Came straggling empty-handed home again,
                            Why, then the wise King sleeved his rainy eyes
                            And sagely thought the pretty princess had
                            Strayed to the island's edge and tumbled off.
                            I could have set his mind at ease on that
                            I could have told himyea, she tumbled off
                            
                                I tumbled her!and tumbled her so plump,
                            She tumbled in an under-island, then
                            Just slow-unmooring from our own and poised
                            For unknown voyagings of flight afar
                            And all remote of latitudes of ours.
                            Ay, into that land I tumbled her from which
                            But one charm known to art can tumble her
                            Back into this,and that charm (guilt be praised!)
                            Is lodged not in the wit nor the desire
                            Of my rare lore.
                        
                        
                            JUCKLET
                            Thereinasmuch find joy!
                            But dost thou know that rumors flutter now
                            Among thy subjects of thy sorceries?
                            The art being banned, thou knowest; or, unhoused,
                            Is unleashed pitilessly by the grim,
                        
                        
                        
                            Facetious body of the dridular
                            Upon the one who fain had loosed the curse
                            On others.An my counsel be worth aught,
                            Then have a care thy spells do not revert
                            Upon thyself, nor yet mine own poor hulk
                            O' fearsomeness!
                        
                        
                            CRESTILLOMEEM
                            Ha! ha! No vaguest need
                            Of apprehension there!While Krung remains
                        
                        [She abruptly pausesstartled first, then listening curiously and with awed
                                interest. Voice of exquisite melodiousness and fervor heard singing.]
                        
                            VOICE
                            When kings are kings, and kings are men
                            And the lonesome rain is raining!
                            O who shall rule from the red throne then,
                            And who shall covet the scepter when
                            When the winds are all complaining?
                        
                        
                            When men are men, and men are kings
                            And the lonesome rain is raining!
                            O who shall list as the minstrel sings
                            Of the crown's fiat, or the signet-ring's,
                            When the winds are all complaining?
                        
                        CRESTILLOMEEM Whence flows such sweetness, and what voice is that?
                        
                        
                            JUCKLET
                            The voice of Spraivoll, an mine ears be whet
                            And hond o' late honeyd memories
                            Behaunting the deserted purlieus of
                            The court.
                        
                        CRESTILLOMEEM And who is Spraivoll, and what song Is that besung so
                            blinding exquisite Of cadenced mystery?
                        
                            JUCKLET
                            SpraivollO Queen,
                            Spraivoll The Tune-Fool is she fitly named
                            By those who meet her ere the day long wanes
                            And naught but janiteering sparsely frets
                            The cushioned silences and stagnant dusts
                            Indifferently resuscitated by
                            The drowsy varlets in mock servitude
                            Of so refurbishing the royal halls:
                            She cometh, alien, from Wunklandso
                            Hath she deposed to divers questioners
                            Who have been smitten of her voiceas rich
                            In melody as she is poor in mind.
                            She hath been roosting, pitied of the hinds
                            And scullions, round about the palace here
                            For half a node.
                        
                        
                            CRESTILLOMEEM
                            And pray, where is she perched
                            This wild-bird woman with her wondrous throat?
                        
                        
                        
                            JUCKLET
                            Under some dingy cornice, like enough
                            Though wild-bird she is not, being plumd in,
                            Not feathers, but one fustioned stolethe like
                            Of which so shameth her fair face one needs
                            Must swear some lusty oaths, but that they shape
                            Themselves full gentlewise in mildest prayer:
                            Not wild-bird:nay, nor womanthough, in truth,
                            She ith a licensed idiot, and drifts
                            About, as restless and aas useless, too,
                            As any lazy breeze in summer-time.
                            I'll call her forth to greet your Majesty.
                            Ho! Spraivoll! Ho! my twittering birdster, flit
                            Thou hither.
                        
                        [Enter SPRAIVOLL
                            from behind group of statuarysinging.]
                        
                            SPRAIVOLL
                            Ting-aling! Ling-ting! Tingle-tee!
                            The moon spins round and round for me!
                            Wind it up with a golden key.
                            Ting-aling! Ling-ting! Tingle-tee!
                        
                        CRESTILLOMEEM Who art thou, and what the strange Elusive beauty and intent
                            of thy Sweet song? What singest thou, vague, mystic-bird What doth the Tune-Fool sing?
                            Ay, sing me what.
                        
                        
                            SPRAIVOLL [Singing]
                            What sings the breene on the wertling-vine,
                            And the tweck on the bamner-stem?
                            Their song, to me, is the same as mine,
                            As mine is the same to themto them
                            As mine is the same to them.
                        
                        
                            In star-starved glooms where the plustre looms
                            With its slender boughs above,
                            Their song sprays down with the fragrant blooms,
                            And the song they sing is loveis love
                            And the song they sing is love.
                        
                        
                            JUCKLET
                            Your Majesty may be surprised somewhat,
                            But Spraivoll can not talk,her only mode
                            Of speech is melody; and thou might'st put
                            The dowered fool a thousand quries, and,
                            In like return, receive a thousand songs,
                            All set to different tunesas full of naught
                            As space is full of emptiness.
                        
                        
                            CRESTILLOMEEM
                            A fool?
                            And with a gift so all-divine!A fool?
                        
                        
                            JUCKLET
                            Ay, warranted!The Flying Islands all
                            Might flock in mighty counselmoult, and shake
                            Their loosened feathers, and sort every tuft,
                        
                        
                        
                            Nor ever most minutely quarry there
                            One other Spraivoll, itching with her voice
                            Such favored spot of cuticle as she
                            Alone selects here in our blissful realm.
                        
                        
                            CRESTILLOMEEM
                            Out, jester, on thy cumbrous wordiness!
                            Come hither, Tune-Fool, and be not afraid,
                            For I like fools so well I married one:
                            And since thou art a Queen of fools, and he
                            A King, why, I've a mind to bring ye two
                            Together in some wise. Canst use thy song
                            All times in such entrancing spirit one
                            Who lists must so needs list, e'en though the song
                            Go on unceasingly indefinite?
                        
                        
                            SPRAIVOLL [Singing]
                            If one should ask me for a song,
                            Then I should answer, and my tongue
                            Would twitter, trill and troll along
                            Until the song were done.
                        
                        
                            Or should one ask me for my tongue,
                            And I should answer with a song,
                            I'd trill it till the song were sung,
                            And troll it all along.
                        
                        
                            CRESTILLOMEEM
                            Thou art indeed a fool, and one, I think,
                            To serve my present purposes. Give ear.
                        
                        
                        
                            And Jucklet, thou, go to the King and bide
                            His waking: then repeat these words "The Queen
                            
                            
                                Impatiently awaits his Majesty,
                            
                            
                                And craves his presence in the Tower of Stars,
                            
                            
                                That she may there express full tenderly
                            
                            
                                Her great solicitude." And then, end thus,
                            
                            
                                "So much she bade, and drooped her glowing face
                            
                            
                                Deep in the showerings of her golden hair,
                            
                            
                                And with a flashing gesture of her arm
                            
                            
                                Turned all the moonlight pallid, saying,
                                    'Haste!'"
                            
                        
                        
                            JUCKLET
                            And would it not be well to hang a pearl
                            Or twain upon thy silken lashes?
                        
                        CRESTILLOMEEM
                             GO!
                        
                            JUCKLET [Exit, singing]
                            This lovely husband's loyal breast
                            Heaved only as she might suggest,
                            To every whimsy she expressed
                            He proudly bowed and acquiesced.
                            He plotted with her, blithe and gay
                            In no flirtation said her nay,
                            He even took said her nay,
                            He even took her to the play,
                            Excused himself and came away
                        
                        
                        
                            CRESTILLOMEEM [To Sparivoll]
                            Now, Tune-Fool, junior, let me theme thee for
                            A song:An Empress once, with angel in
                            Her face and devil in her heart, had wish
                            To breed confusion to her sovereign lord,
                            And work the downfall of his haughty son
                            The issue of a former marriagewho
                            Bellowsed her hatred to the whitest heat,
                            For that her own son, by a former lord,
                            Was born a hideous dwarf, and reared aside
                            From the sire's knowing or his princely own
                            That none, in sooth, might ever chance to guess
                            The hapless mother of the hapless child.
                            The Fiends that scar her thus, protect her still
                            With outward beauty of both face and form.
                            It so is written, and so must remain
                            Till magic greater than their own is found
                            To hurl against her. So is she secure
                            And proof above all fear. Now, listen well!
                            Her present lord is haunted with a dream,
                            That he is soon to pass, and so prepares
                            (All havoc hath been wrangled with the drugs!)
                            The Throne for the ascension of the son,
                            His cursd heir, who still doth baffle all
                            Her arts against him, e'en as though he were
                            Protected by a skill beyond her own.
                            Soh! she, the Queen, doth rule the King in all
                            Save this affectionate perversity
                            Of favour for the son whom he would raise
                            To his own place.And but for this the King
                            Long since had tasted death and kissed his fate
                        
                        
                        
                            As one might kiss a bride! But so his Queen
                            Must needs withhold, not deal, the final blow,
                            She yet doth bind him, spelled, still trusting her;
                            And, by her craft and wanton flatteries,
                            Doth sway his love to every purpose but
                            The one most coveted.And for this end
                            She would make use of thee;and if thou dost
                            Her will, as her good pleasure shall direct,
                            Why, thou shalt sing at court, in silken tire,
                            Thy brow bound with wild diamonds, and thy hair
                            Sown with such gems as laugh hysteric lights
                            From glittering quespar, guenk and plennocynth,
                            Ay, even panoplied as might the fair
                            Form of a very princess be, thy voice
                            Shall woo the echoes of the listening Throne.
                        
                        
                            SPRAIVOLL [Crooning abstractedly]
                            And O! shall onehigh brother of the air,
                            In deeps of spaceshall he have dream as fair?
                            And shall that dream be this?In some strange place
                            Of long-lost lands he finds her waiting face
                            Comes marvelling upon it, unware,
                            Set moonwise in the midnight of her hair,
                            And is behaunted with old nights of May,
                            So his glad lips do purl a roundelay
                            Purloind from the echo-triller's beak,
                            Seen keenly notching at some star's blanch cheek
                            With its ecstatic twitterings, through dusk
                            And sheen of dewy boughs of bloom and musk.
                            For him, Love, light again the eyes of her
                            That show nor tears nor laughter nor surprise
                        
                        
                        
                            For him undim their glamour and the blur
                            Of dreams drawn from the depths of deepest skies.
                            He cloth not know if any lily blows
                            As fair of feature, nor of any rose.
                        
                        
                            CRESTILLOMEEM [Aside]
                            O this weird woman! she doth drug mine ears
                            With her uncanny sumptuousness of song!
                            [To Spraivoll.] Nay, Nay! Give o'er thy tuneful
                                maunderings
                            And mark use further, Tune-Foolay, and well:
                            At present doth the King lie in a sleep
                            Drug-wrought and deep as deaththe after-phase
                            Of an unconscious state, in which each act
                            Of his throughout his waking hours is so
                            Rehearsed, in manner, motion, deed and word,
                            Her spies (the Queen's) that watch hint, serving there
                            As guardians o'er his royal slumbers, may
                            Inform her of her lord's most secret thought.
                            And lo, her plans have ripened even now
                            Till, should he come upon his Throne to-night,
                            
                            Where eagerly his counsellors will bide
                            His coming,she, the Queen, hath reason to
                            Suspect her long-designd purposes
                            May fall in jeopardy;but if he fail,
                            
                            Through any means, to lend his presence there,
                            
                                Then, by a wheedled mandate, is his Queen
                            
                            
                                Empowered with all Sovereignty to reign
                            
                            
                                And work the royal purposes instead.
                            
                            Therefore, the Queen hath set an interview
                            A conference to be holden with the King,
                        
                        
                        
                            Which is ordained to fall on noon to-night,
                            Twelve star-twirls ere the nick the Throne convenes.
                            And with her thou shalt go, and bide in wait
                            Until she signal thee to sing; and then
                            Shalt thou so work upon his mellow mood
                            With that un-Spirkly magic of thy voice
                            So all bedaze his waking thought with dreams,
                            The Queen may, all unnoticed, slip away,
                            And leave thee singing to a throneless King.
                        
                        
                            SPRAIVOLL [Singing]
                            And who shall sing for the haughty son
                            While the good King droops his head?
                            And will he dream, when the song is done,
                            That a princess fair lies dead?
                        
                        
                            CRESTILLOMEEM
                            The haughty son hath found his "Song"sweet curse!
                            
                            And may she sing his everlasting dirge!
                            She comes from that near-floating laud of thine,
                            Naming herself a princess of that realm
                            So strangely peopled we would fain evade
                            All mergence, and remain as strange to them
                            As they to us. No less this Dwainie hath
                            Most sinuously writhed and lithed her way
                            Into court-favor herehath glidden past
                            The King's encharmd sight and sleeked herself
                            Within the very altars of his house
                            His linehis bloodhis very life:AMPHINE!
                            Not any Spirkland gentlemaiden might
                            Aspire so high as she bath dared to dare!
                        
                        
                        
                            For she, with her fair skin and finer ways,
                            And beauty second only to the Queen's,
                            Hath caught the prince betwixt her mellow palms
                            And stroked him flutterless. Didst ever thou
                            In thy land hear of Dwainie of the Wunks?
                            
                        
                        SPRAIVOLL [Singing]
                        
                            Ay, Dwainie!My Dwainie!
                            The lurloo ever sings,
                            A tremor in his flossy crest
                            And in his glossy wings.
                            And Dwainie!My Dwainie!
                            The winno-welvers call;
                            But Dwainie hides in Spirkland
                            And answers not at all.
                        
                        
                            The teeper twitters Dwainie!
                            The tcheucker on his spray
                            Teeters up and down the wind
                            And will not fly away:
                            And Dwainie!My Dwainie!
                            The drowsy oovers drawl;
                            But Dwainie hides in Spirkland
                            And answers not at all.
                        
                        
                            O Dwainie!My Dwainie!
                            The breezes hold their breath
                            The stars are pale as blossoms,
                            And the night as still as death:
                            And Dwainie!My Dwainie!
                            The fainting echoes fall;
                            But Dwainie hides in Spirkland
                            And answers not at all.
                        
                        
                        
                            CRESTILLOMEEM
                            A melody ecstatic! andthy words,
                            Although so meaningless, seem something more
                            A vague and shadowy something, eerie-like,
                            That maketh one to shiver over-chilled
                            With curious, creeping sweetnesses of pain
                            And catching breaths that flutter tremulous
                            With sighs that dry the throat out icily.
                            But save thy music! Come! that I may make
                            Thee ready for thy royal auditor.[Exeunt.]
                        
                        END ACT I
                        ACT II
                        SCENE I. A garden of KRUNG'S
                            Palace, screened from the moon with netted glenk-vines and blooming
                                zhoomer-boughs, all glimmeringly lighted with star-flakes. An arbor, near which is a
                                table spread with a repasttwo seats, drawn either side. A playing fountain, at marge of
                                which AMPHINE
                            sits thrumming a trentoraine.
                        
                        AMPHINE [Improvising]
                        
                            Ah, help me! but her face and brow
                            Are lovelier than lilies are
                            Beneath the light of moon and star
                            That smile as they are smiling now
                            White lilies in a pallid swoon
                            Of sweetest white beneath the moon
                        
                        
                        
                            White lilies in a flood of bright
                            Pure lucidness of liquid-light
                            Cascading down some plenilune
                            When all the azure overhead
                            Blooms like a dazzling daisy-bed.
                            So luminous her face and brow
                            The luster of their glory, shed
                            In memory, even, blinds me now.
                        
                        [Plaintively addressing instrument]
                        
                            O warbling strand of silver, where, O where
                            Hast thou unravelled that sweet voice of thine
                            And left its silken murmurs quavering
                            In limp thrills of delight? O golden wire,
                            Where hast thow spilled thy precious twinkerings?
                            What thirsty ear hath drained thy melody,
                            And left me but a wild, delirious drop
                            To tincture all my soul with vain desire?
                        
                        [Improvising]
                        
                            Her faceher browher hair unfurled!
                            And O the oval chin below,
                            Carved, like a cunning cameo,
                            With one exquisite dimple, swirled
                            With swimming shine and shade, and whirled
                            The daintiest vortex poets know
                            The sweetest whirlpool ever twirled
                            By Cupid's finger-tip,and so,
                            The deadliest maelstrom in the world.
                        
                        [Pauses.Enter DWAINIE, behind, in upper
                                bower, unperceived.]
                        
                        AMPHINE [Again addressing instrument]
                        
                            O Trentoraine! how like an emptid vase
                            Thow artwhose clustering blooms of song have drooped
                            And faded, one by one, and fallen away
                            And left to me but dry and tuneless stems
                            And crisp and withered tendrils of a voice
                            Whose thrilling tone, now like a throttled sound,
                            Lies stifled, faint, and gasping all in vain
                            For utterance.
                        
                        [Again improvising]
                        
                            And O mad wars of blinding blurs
                            And flashings of lance-blades of light,
                            Whet glitteringly athwart the sight
                            That dares confront those eyes of hers!
                            Let any dewdrop soak the hue
                            Of any violet through and through,
                            And then be colorless and dull,
                            Compared with eyes so beautiful!
                            I swear ye that her eyes be bright
                            As noonday, yet as dark as night
                            As bright as be the burnished bars
                            Of rainbows set in sunny skies,
                            And yet as deep and dark, her eyes,
                            And lustrous black as blown-out stars.
                        
                        [PausesDWAINIE
                            still unperceived, radiantly smiling and wafting kisses down from
                                trellis-window above.]
                        
                        AMPHINE [Again to instrument]
                        
                            O empty husk of song!
                            If deep within my heart the music thou
                            Hast stored away might find an issuance,
                            A fount of limpid laughter would leap up
                            And gurgle from my lips, and all the winds
                            Would revel with it, riotous with joy;
                            And Dwainie, in her beauty, would lean o'er
                            The battlements of night, and, like the moon,
                            The glory of her face would light the world
                            For I would sing of love.
                        
                        DWAINIE
                        
                        
                            And she would hear,
                            And, reaching overhead among the stars,
                            Would scatter them like daisies at thy feet.
                        
                        AMPHINE
                        
                        
                            O voice, where art thou floating on the air?
                            O Seraph-soul, where art thou hovering?
                        
                        DWAINIE
                        
                        
                            I hover in the zephyr of thy sighs,
                            And tremble lest thy love for me shall fail
                            To buoy me thus forever on the breath
                            Of such a dream as Heaven envies.
                        
                        AMPHINE
                        
                        
                            Ah!
                        
                        
                        [Turning, discovers DWAINIE
                            she feigning, still, invisibility, while he, with lifted eyes and wistful gaze,
                                preludes with instrumentthen sings.]
                        
                            Linger, my Dwainie! Dwainie, lily-fair,
                            Stay yet thy step upon the casement-stair
                            Poised be thy slipper tip as is the tine
                            Of some still star.Ah, DwainieDwainie mine,
                            Yet lingerlinger there!
                        
                        
                            Thy face, O Dwainie, lily-pure and fair,
                            Gleams i' the dusk, as in thy dusky hair
                            The moony zhoomer glimmers, or the shine
                            Of thy swift smile.Ah, DwainieDwainie mine,
                            Yet lingerlinger there!
                        
                        
                            With lifted wrist, whereround the laughing air
                            Hath blown a mist of lawn and clasped it there,
                            Waft finger-thipt adieus that spray the wine
                            Of thy waste kisses to'rd me, Dwainie mine
                            Yet lingerlinger there!
                        
                        
                            What unloosed splendor is there may compare
                            With thy hand's unfurled glory, anywhere?
                            What glint of dazzling dew or jewel fine
                            May mate thine eyes?Ah, DwainieDwainie mine!
                            Yet lingerlinger there!
                        
                        
                            My soul confronts thee: On thy brow and hair
                            It lays its tenderness like palms of prayer
                            It touches sacredly those lips of thine
                            And swoons across thy spirit, Dwainie mine,
                            The while thou lingerest there.
                        
                        [Drops trentoraine, and, with open arms, gases yearningly on
                                DWAINIE.]
                        
                        DWAINIE [Raptly]
                        
                            Thy words do wing my being dovewise!
                        
                        AMPHINE
                        
                        
                            Then,
                            Thou lovest!O my homing dove, veer down
                            And nestle in the warm home of my breast!
                            So empty are mine arms, so full my heart,
                            The one must hold thee, or the other burst.
                        
                        DWAINIE [Throwing herself in his embrace]
                        
                            o's own hand methinks hath flung me here:
                            O hold me that He may not pluck me back!
                        
                        AMPHINE
                        
                        
                            So closely will I hold thee that not e'en
                            The hand of death shall separate us.
                        
                        DWAINIE
                        
                        
                            So
                            May sweet death find us, then, that, woven thus
                            In the corollo of a ripe caress,
                            We may drop lightly, like twin plustre-buds,
                            On Heaven's star-strewn lawn.
                        
                        AMPHINE
                        
                        
                            So do I pray.
                            But tell me, tender heart, an thou dost love,
                            Where hast thou loitered for so long?for thou
                            Didst promise tryst here with me earlier by
                        
                        
                        
                            Some several layodemes which I have told
                            Full chafingly against my finger-tips
                            Till the full complement, save three, are ranged
                            Thy pitiless accusers, claiming, each,
                            So many as their joind number be
                            Shalt thou so many times lift up thy lips
                            For mine's most lingering forgiveness.
                            So, save thee, O my Sweet! and rest thee, I
                            Have ordered merl and viands to be brought
                            For our refreshment here, where, thus alone,
                            I may sip words with thee as well as wine.
                            Why hast thou kept me so athirst?Why, I
                            Am jealous of the flattered solitudes
                            In which thou walkest. [They sit at table.]
                        
                        DWAINIE
                        
                        
                            Nay, I will not tell,
                            Since, an I yielded, countless questions, like
                            In idlest worth, would waste our interview
                            In speculations vain.Let this suffice:
                            stayed to talk with one whom, long ago,
                            I met and knew, and grew to love, forsooth,
                            In dreamy Wunkland.Talked of mellow nights,
                            And long, long hours of golden olden times
                            When girlish happiness locked hands with me
                            And we went spinning round, with naked feet
                            In swaths of bruisd roses ankle-deep;
                            When laughter rang unsilenced, unrebuked,
                            And prayers went unremembered, oozing clean
                            From the drowsed memory, as from the eyes
                            The pure, sweet mother-face that bent above
                        
                        
                        
                            Glimmered and wavered, blurred, bent closer still
                            A timeless instant, like a shadowy flame,
                            Then flickered tremulously o'er the brow
                            And went out in a kiss.
                        
                        AMPHINE [Kissing her]
                        
                            Not like to this!
                            
                            O blessd lips whose kiss alone may be
                            Sweeter than their sweet speech! Speak on, and say
                            Of what else talked thou and thy friend?
                        
                        DWAINIE
                        
                        
                            We talked
                            Of all the past, ah me! and all the friends
                            That now await my coming. And we talked
                            Of O so many thingsso many things
                            That I but blend them all with dreams of when,
                            With thy warm hand clasped close in this of mine,
                            We cross the floating bridge that soon again
                            Will span the all-unfathomable gulfs
                            Of nether air betwixt this isle of strife
                            And my most glorious realm of changeless peace,
                            Where summer night regins ever and the moon
                            Hangs ever ripe and lush with radiance
                            Above a land where roses float on wings
                            And fan their fragrance out so lavishly
                            That Heaven hath hint of it, and oft therefrom
                            Sends down to us across the odorous seas
                            Strange argosies of interchanging bud
                            And blossom, spice and balm.Sweetsweet
                            Beyond all art and wit of uttering.
                        
                        
                        AMPHINE
                        
                        
                            O Empress of my listening Soul, speak on,
                            And tell me all of that rare land of thine!
                            For even though I reigned a peerless king
                            Within mine own, methinks I could fling down
                            My scepter, signet, crown and royal might,
                            And so fare down the thornd path of life
                            If at its dwindling end my feet might touch
                            Upon the shores of such a land as thou
                            Dost paint for methy realm! Tell on of it
                            And tell me if thy sister-woman there
                            Is like to theeYet nay! for an thou didst,
                            These eyes would lose all speech of sight
                            And call not back to thine their utter love.
                            But tell me of thy brothers.Are they great,
                            And can they grapple o's arguments
                            Beyond our skill? or wrest a purpose from
                            The pink side of the moon at Darsten-tide?
                            Or cipher out the problem of blind stars,
                            That ever still do safely grope their way
                            Among the thronging constellations?
                        
                        DWAINIE
                        
                        
                            Ay!
                            Ay, they have leaped all earthland barriers
                            In mine own isle of wisdom-working Wunks:
                            'Twas Wunkland's son that voyaged round the moon
                            And moored his bark within the molten bays
                            Of bubbling silver: And 'twas Wunkland's son
                            That talked with Marsunbuckled Saturn's belt
                            And tightened it in squeezure of such facts
                        
                        
                        
                            Therefrom as even he dare not disclose
                            In full till all his followers, as himself,
                            Have grown them wings, and gat them beaks and claws,
                            With plumage all bescienced to withstand
                            All tensest flamesglaze-throated, too, and lung'd
                            To swallow fiercest-spurted jets and cores
                            Of embered and unquenchable white heat:
                            'Twas Wunkland's son that alchemized the dews
                            And bred all colored grasses that he wist
                            Divorced the airs and mists and caught the trick
                            Of azure-tinting earth as well as sky:
                            'Twas Wunkland's son that bent the rainbow straight
                            And walked it like a street, and so returned
                            Inlaid with strips of selvage from the sun
                            And burnished with the rust of rotten stars:
                            'Twas Wunkland's son that comprehended first
                            All grosser things, and took our worlds apart
                            And oiled their works with theories that clicked
                            In glib articulation with the pulse
                            And palpitation of the systemed facts.
                            And, circling ever round the farthest reach
                            Of the remotest welkin of all truths,
                            
                                Our worlds only, but query still beyond.
                            For now our goolores say, below these isles
                            A million million miles, are other worlds
                            Not like to ours, but round, as bubbles are,
                            And, like them, ever reeling on through space,
                            And anchorless through all eternity;
                            Not like to ours, for our isles, as they note,
                            Are living things that fly about at night,
                        
                        
                        
                            And soar above and cling, throughout the day,
                            Like bats, beneath the bent sills of the skies:
                            And I myself have heard, at dawn of moon,
                            A liquid music filtered through my dreams,
                            As though 'twere myriads of sweet voices, pent
                            In some o'erhanging realm, had spilled themselves
                            In streams of melody that trickled through
                            The chinks and crannies of a crystal pave,
                            Until the wasted juice of harmony,
                            Slow-leaking o'er my senses, laved my soul
                            In ecstasy divine: And afferhaiks,
                            Who scour our coasts on missions for the King,
                            Declare our island's shape is like the zhibb's
                            When lolling in a trance upon the air
                            With open wings upslant and motionless.
                            O such a land it isso all complete
                            In all wise habitants, and knowledge, lore,
                            Arts, sciences, perfected government
                            And kingly wisdom, worth and majesty
                            And Artineffably above all else:
                            The art of the Romancerfabulous
                            Beyond the miracles of strangest fact;
                            The art of Poesythe sanest soul
                            Is made mad with its uttering; the art
                            Of Music,words may not e'en whimper what
                            The jewel-sounds of song yield to the sense;
                            And, last,the art of Knowing what to Know,
                            
                            And how to zoon straight to'rd it like a bee,
                            Draining or song or peom as it brims
                            And over-runs with raciest spirit-dew.
                            And, after,chaos all to sense like thine,
                            Till there, translated, thou shalt know as I. . . .
                        
                        
                        
                            So furnished forth in all things lovable
                            Is my Land-Wondrousay, and thine to be,
                            O Amphine, love of mine, it lacks but thy
                            Sweet presence to make it a paradise!
                            [Takes tip trentoraine.]
                            And shall I tell thee of the home that waits
                            For thy glad coming, Amphine?Listen, then!
                        
                        
                            CHANT-RECITATIVE
                            A palace veiled in a glimmering dusk;
                            Warm breaths of a tropic air,
                            Drugged with the odorous marzhoo's musk
                            And the sumptuous cyncotwaire
                            Where the trembling hands of the lilwing's leaves
                            The winds caress and fawn,
                            While the dreamy starlight idly weaves
                            Designs for the damask lawn.
                        
                        
                            Densed in the depths of a dim eclipse
                            Of palms, in a flowery space,
                            A fountain leaps from the marble lips
                            Of a girl, with a golden vase
                            Held atip on a curving wrist,
                            Drinking the drops that glance
                            Laughingly in the glittering mist
                            Of her crystal utterance.
                        
                        
                            Archways looped o'er blooming walks
                            That lead through gleaming halls;
                            And balconies where the word-bird talks
                            To the tittering waterfalls:
                        
                        
                        
                            And casements, gauzed with the filmy sheen
                            Of a lace that sifts the sight
                            Through a ghost of bloom on the haunted screen
                            That drips with the dews of light.
                        
                        
                            Weird, pale shapes of sculptured stone,
                            With marble nymphs agaze
                            Ever in fonts of amber, sown
                            With seeds of gold and sprays
                            Of emerald mosses, ever drowned,
                            Where glimpses of shell and gem
                            Peer from the depths, as round and round
                            The nautilus nods at them.
                        
                        
                            Faces blurred in a mazy dance,
                            With a music, wild and sweet,
                            Spinning the threads of the mad romance
                            That tangles the waltzers' feet:
                            That pulse to the melody,
                            Till the soul of the dancer dips and fills
                            In the wells of ecstasy.
                        
                        
                            Eyes that melt in a quivering ore
                            Of love, and the molten kiss
                            Jetted forth of the hearts that pour
                            Their blood in the moulds of bliss.
                            Till, worn to a languor slumber-deep,
                            The soul of the dreamer lifts
                            A silken sail on the gulfs of sleep,
                            And into the darkness drifts.
                        
                        [The instrument falls from her handsAMEHINE, in stress of passionate delight, embraces her.]
                        
                        
                            AMPHINE
                            Thou art not all of earth, O angel one!
                            Nor do I far miswonder me an thou
                            Hast peered above the very walls of Heaven!
                            What hast thou seen there?Didst on o bask
                            Thine eyes and clothe Him with new splendorings?
                            And strove He to fling back as bright a smile
                            As thine, the while He beckoned thee within?
                            And, tell me, didst thou meet an angel there
                            A-linger at the gates, nor entering
                            Till I, her brother, joined her?
                        
                        
                            DWAINIE
                            Why, hast thou
                            A sister dead?Truth, I have heard of one
                            Long lost to theenot dead?
                        
                        
                            AMPHINE
                            Of her I speak,
                            And dead, although we know not certainly,
                            We moan us ever it must needs be death
                            Only could hold her from us such long term
                            Of changeless yearning for her glad return.
                            She strayed away from us long, long ago.
                            O and our memories!Her wandering eyes
                            That seemed as though they ever looked on things
                            We might not seeas haply so they did,
                            For she went from us, all so suddenly
                            So strangely vanished, leaving never trace
                            Of her outgoing, that I ofttimes think
                        
                        
                        
                            Her rapt eyes fell along some certain path
                            Of special glory paven for her feet,
                            And fashioned of o's supreme desire
                            That she might bend her steps therein and so
                            Reach Him again, unseen of our mere eyes.
                            My sweet, sweet sister!lost to brothersire
                            And, to her heart, one dearer than all else,
                            Her loverlost indeed!
                        
                        
                            DWAINIE
                            Nay, do not grieve
                            Thee thus, O loving heart! Thy sister yet
                            May come to thee in some glad way the Fates
                            Are fashioning the while thy tear-drops fall!
                            So calm thee, while I speak of thine own self.
                            For I have listened to a whistling bird
                            That pipes of waiting danger. Didst thou note
                            No strange behavior of thy sire of late?
                        
                        
                            AMPHINE
                            Ay, he is silent and he walks as one
                            In some fixed melancholy, or as one
                            Half waking.Even his worshipped books seem now
                            But things on shelves.
                        
                        
                            DWAINIE
                            And doth he counsel not
                            With thee in any wise pertaining to
                            His ailings, or of matters looking toward
                            His future purposes or his intents
                        
                        
                        
                            Regarding thine own future fortunings
                            And his desires and interests therein?
                            What bearing hath he shown of late toward thee
                            By which thou might'st beframe some estimate
                            Of his mind's placid flow or turbulent?
                            And hath he not so spoken thee at times
                            Thou hast been 'wildered of his words, or grieved
                            Of his strange manner?
                        
                        
                            AMPHINE
                            Once he stayed me on
                            The palace-stair and whispered, "Lo, my son,
                            Thy young reign draweth nighprepare!"So passed
                            And vanished as a wraith, so wan he was!
                        
                        
                            DWAINIE
                            And didst thou never reason on this thing,
                            Nor ask thyself what dims thy father's eye
                            And makes a brooding shadow of his form?
                        
                        
                            AMPHINE
                            Why, there's a household rumor that he dreams
                            Death fareth ever at his side, and soon
                            Shall signal him away.But Jucklet saith
                            
                                Crestillomeem hath said the leeches say
                            There is no cause for serious concern;
                            And thus am I assured 'tis nothing more
                            Than childish fancy of mine aging sire,
                            And so, as now, I laugh, full reverently,
                            And marvel, as I mark his shuffling gait,
                        
                        
                        
                            And his bestrangered air and murmurous lips,
                            As by he glideth to and fro, ha! ha!
                            Ho! ho!I laugh me many, many times
                            Mind, thou, 'tis reverently I laughha! ha!
                            And wonder, as he glideth ghostly-wise,
                            If ever I shall waver as I walk,
                            And stumble o'er my beard, and knit my brows,
                            And o'er the dull mosaics of the pave
                            Play chequers with mine eyes! Ha! ha!
                        
                        
                            DWAINIE [Aside]
                            How dare
                            How dare I tell him? Yet I mustI must!
                        
                        
                            AMPHINE
                            Why, art thou, too, grown childish, that thou canst
                            Find thee waste pleasure talking to thyself
                            And staring frowningly with eyes whose smiles
                            I need so much?
                        
                        
                            DWAINIE
                            Nay, rather say, their tears,
                            Poor thoughtless Prince! [Aside.] (My magic even now
                            Forecasts his kingly sire's near happening
                            Of nameless hurt and ache and awful stress
                            Of agony supreme, when he shall stare
                            The stark truth in the face!)
                        
                        
                            AMPHINE
                            What meanest thou?
                        
                        
                        
                            DWAINIE
                            What mean I but thy welfare? Why, I mean,
                            One hour agone, the Queen, thy mother
                        
                        
                            AMPHINE
                            Nay,
                            Say only "Queen"!
                        
                        
                            DWAINIE
                            The Queen, one hour agone
                            As so I learned from source I need not say
                            At noon to-night, within the Tower of Stars.
                            Thou knowest, only brief space following
                            The time of her pent session thereso set
                            In secret with the King alone, the Throne
                            
                            Is set, too, to convene; and that the King
                            
                            
                                Hath lent his seal unto a, mandate that,
                            
                            
                                Should he withhold his presence there, the Queen
                            
                            
                                Shall be empowered to presideto reign
                            
                            
                                Solely endowed to work the royal will
                            
                            
                                In lieu of the good King. Now, therefore, I
                            Have been advised that she, the Queen, by craft
                            Connives to hold him absent purposely,
                            That she may claim the vacancyfor what
                            Covert design I know not, but I know
                            It augurs peril to ye both, as to
                            The Throne's own perpetuity. [Aside.] (Again
                            The Sorceress' legions balk mine own.The King
                            Still hers, yet wavering. O save the King,
                            Thou o!Render him to us!)
                        
                        
                        
                            AMPHINE
                            I feel
                            Thou speakest truth: and yet how know'st thou this?
                        
                        
                            DWAINIE
                            Ask me not that; my lips are welded close.
                            And, more,since I have dared to speak, and thou
                            To listen,Jucklet is accessory,
                            And even now is plotting for thy fall.
                            But, Passion of my Soul! think not of me,
                            For nothing but sheer magic may avail
                            To work me harm;but look thou to thyself!
                            For thou art blameless cause of all the hate
                            That rankleth in the bosom of the Queen.
                            
                                So have thine eyes unslumbered ever, that
                            
                            
                                No step may steal behind theefor in this
                            
                            
                                Unlooked-of way thine enemy will come:
                            
                            This much I know, but for what fell intent
                            Dare not surmise.So look thou, night and day,
                            
                            
                                That none may skulk upon thee in this wise
                            
                            
                                Of dastardly attack. [Aside.] (Ha! Sorceress!
                            Thou palest, tossing wild and wantonly
                            The smothering golden tempest of thy hair.
                            What! lying eyes! ye dare to utter tears?
                            
                            
                                Help! help! Yield us the King!)
                            
                        
                        
                            AMPHINE
                            And thou, O sweet!
                            How art thou guarded and what shield is thine
                            Of safety?
                        
                        
                        
                            DWAINIE
                            Fear not thou for me at all.
                            Possessed am I of wondrous sorcery
                            The gift of Holy Magi at my birth:
                            Mine enemy must front me in assault
                            And must with mummery of speech assail,
                            And I will know him in first utterance
                            And so may thus disarm him, though he be
                            A giant thrice in vasty form and force.
                            [Singing heard.]
                            But, list! what wandering minstrel cometh here
                            In the young night?
                        
                        
                            VOICE [In distancesinging]
                            
                                The drowsy eyes of the stars grow dim;
                            
                            
                                THE wamboo roosts on the rainbow' rim
                            
                            
                                And the moon is a ghost of shine:
                            
                            
                                The soothing song of the crule is done,
                            
                                But the song of love is a soother one,
                            
                                And the song of love is mine.
                            
                                Then, wake! O wake!
                            
                            
                                For the sweet song's sake,
                            
                                Nor let my heart
                            
                            
                                With the morning break!
                            
                        
                        
                            AMPHINE
                            Some serenader. Hist!
                            What meaneth he so early, and what thus
                            Within the palace gardenclose? Quick; here!
                            He neareth! Soh! Let us conceal ourselves
                            And mark his action, wholly unobserved.
                        
                        
                        [AMPHINE
                            and DWAINIE enter bower]
                        
                            VOICE [Drawing nearer]
                            
                                The mist of the morning, chill and gray,
                            
                                Wraps the night in a shroud of spray:
                            
                            
                                The sun is a crimson blot:
                            
                            
                                The moon fades fast, and the stars take wing;
                            
                            
                                The comet's tail is a fleeting thing
                            
                            
                                But the tale of love is not.
                            
                                Then, wake! O wake!
                            
                            
                                For the sweet song's sake,
                            
                                Nor let my heart
                            
                            
                                With the morning break!
                            
                            [Enter JUCKLET]
                        
                        
                            JUCKLET
                            
                                Eex! what a sumptuous darkness is the Night
                            How rich and deep and suave and velvety
                            Its lovely blackness to a soul like mine!
                            Ah, Night! thou densest of all mysteries
                            Thou eeriest of unfathomable delights,
                            Whose soundless sheer inscrutability
                            Is fascination's own ethereal self,
                            Unseen, and yet embodiedpalpable,
                            An essence, yet a form of stableness
                            Were laid on either shoulder.Peace!
                            I cease Even to strive to grope one further pace,
                            But stand uncovered and with lifted face.
                            O but a glamour of inward light
                            Hath smitten the eyes of my soul tonight!
                        
                        
                        
                            Groping here in the garden-land,
                            I feel my fancy's outheld hand
                            Touch the rim of a realm that seems
                            Like an isle of bloom in a sea of dreams:
                            I stand maxed, dazed and alonealone!
                            My heart beats on in an undertone,
                            And I lean and listen long, and long,
                            And I hold my breath as I hear again
                            The chords of a longdead trentoraine
                            And the wraith of an old lovesong.
                            Low to myself am I whispering:
                            
                                Glad am I, and the Night knows why
                            
                            
                                Glad am I that the dream came by
                            
                            
                                And found me here as of old when I
                            
                            
                                Was a ruler and a king.
                            
                            DWAINIE [To Attlphine]
                            What gentle little monster is this dwarf
                            Surely not Jucklet of the court?
                            AMPHINE [Ironically]
                            Ay, ay!
                            But he'll ungentle an thy woman'sheart
                            Yield him but space. Listen: he mouths again.
                        
                        
                            JUCKLET
                            It was an age agoan age
                            Turned down in life like a folded page.
                            See where the volume falls apart,
                            And the faded bookmark'tis my heart,
                        
                        
                        
                            Nor mine alone, but another knit
                            So cunningly in the love of it
                            That you must look, with a shaking head,
                            Nor know the quick one from the dead.
                            Ah! what a broad and sea-like lawn
                            Is the field of love they bloom upon!
                            Waves of its violet-velvet grass
                            Billowing, with the winds that pass,
                            And breaking in a snowwhite foam
                            Of lily-crests on the shores of home.
                            Low to myself am I whispering:
                            
                                Glad am I, and the Night knows why
                            
                            
                                Glad am I that the dream came by
                            
                            
                                And found me here as of old when I
                            
                            
                                Was a ruler and a king.
                            
                                [Abruptly breaking into impassioned vocal burst]
                            
                        
                        
                            SONG
                            Fold me away in your arms, O Night
                            Night, my Night, with your rich black hair!
                            Tumble it down till my yearning sight
                            And my unkissed lips are hidden quite
                            And my heart is havened there,
                            Under that mystical dark despair
                            Under your rich black hair.
                        
                        
                            Oft have I looked in your eyes, O Night
                            Night, my Night, with your rich black hair!
                            Looked in your eyes till my face waned white
                        
                        
                        
                            And my heart laid hold of a mad delight
                            That moaned as I held it there
                            Under the deeps of that dark despair
                            Under your rich black hair.
                        
                        
                            Just for a kiss of your mouth, O Night
                            Night, my Night, with your rich black hair!
                            Lo! will I wait as a dead man might
                            Wait for the Judgment's dawning light,
                            With my lips in a frozen prayer
                            Under this lovable dark despair
                            Under your rich black hair.
                            
                                [With swift change to mood of utter gayety]
                            
                            Ho! ho! what will my dainty mistress say
                            When I shall stand knee-deep in the wet grass
                            Beneath her lattice, and with upturned eyes
                            And tongue outlolling like the clapper of
                            A bell, outpour her that? I wonder now
                            If she will not put up her finger thus,
                            And say, "Hist! heart of mine! the angels call
                            To thee!" Ho! ho! Or will her blushing face
                            Light up her dim boudoir and, from her glass,
                            Flare back to her a flame upsprouting from
                            The hot-cored socket of a soul whose light
                            She thought long since had guttered out?Ho! ho!
                            Or, haply, will she chastely bend above
                            A Parian phantomette, with head atip
                            And twinkling fingers dusting down the dews
                            That glitter on the tarapyzma-vines
                            That riot round her casementgathering
                        
                        
                        
                            Lush blooms to pelt me with while I below
                            All winkingly await the fragrant shower?
                            Ho! ho! how jolly is this thing of love!
                            But how much richer, rarer, jollier
                            Than all the loves is this rare love of mine!
                            Why, my sweet Princess doth not even dream
                            I am her lover,for, to here confess,
                            I have a way of wooing all mine own,
                            And waste scant speech in creamy compliment
                            And courtesies all gaumed with winy words.
                            In sooth, I do not woo at allI win!
                            How is it now the old duet doth glide
                            Itself full ripplingly adown the grooves
                            Of its quaint melody?And whoso, by
                            The bye, or by the way, or for the nonce,
                            Or, eke ye, peradventure, ever durst
                            Render a duet singly but myself?
                            
                                [Singingwith grotesque mimicry of two voices]
                            
                        
                        
                            JUCKLET'S OSTENSIBLE DUET
                            HOw is it woo?and now answer me true,
                            How is it you woo and you win
                            
                                Why, to answer you true,the first thing that you do
                            
                            
                                Is to simply, my dearestbegin.
                        
                        
                            But how can I begine to woo or to win
                            When I don't know a Win from a Woo?
                            
                                Why, cover your chin with your fan or your fin,
                            
                            
                                And I'll introduce them to you.
                        
                        
                        
                            But what if it drew from my parents a view
                            No matter!your view shall be first of the
                                two,;
                            So I hasten to usher them in.
                        
                        
                            Nay, stay! Shall I grin at the Woo or the Win?
                            And what will he do if I do?
                            
                                Why, the Woo will begin with "How pleasant it's
                                    been!"
                            
                            
                                And the Win with "Delighted with you!"
                            
                        
                        
                            Then supposing he grew very dear to my view
                            I'm speaking, you know, of the Win?
                            
                                Why, then, you should do what he wanted you to,
                            
                            
                                And now is the time to begin.
                        
                        
                            The time to begin? O then usher him in
                            Let him say what he wants me to do
                            
                                He is here.He's a twin of yourself "Win,"
                            
                            
                                And you are, my darling, my "Woo"!
                            
                            [Capering and courtesying to feigned audience]
                        
                        
                            That song I call most sensible nonsense
                            And if the fair and peerless Dwainie were
                            But here, with that sweet voice of hers, to take
                            The part of "Woo," I'd be the happiest
                                "Win"
                            On this side of futurity! . . . Ho! ho!
                            DWAINIE [Aside to AMPHINE]
                            What means he?
                        
                        
                        
                            AMPHINE
                            Why, he means that throatless head
                            Of his needs further chucking down betwixt
                            His cloven shoulders!
                            [Starting forward DWAINIE detaining him]
                            
                        
                        
                            DWAINIE
                            Nay, thou Shalt not stir!
                            See! now the monster hath discovered our
                            Repast. Hold! Let us mark him further.
                            JUCKLET . . . [Archly eying viands]
                            What!
                            A roasted wheffle and a toespiced whum,
                            Tricked with a larvey and a gherghgling's tail!
                            And, sprit me! wine enough to swim them in!
                            Now I should like to put a question to
                            The guests; but as there are none, I direct
                            Mine interrogatory to the host.
                            
                                [Bowing to vacancy]
                            
                            Am I behindtime?Then I can but trust
                            My tardy coming may be overlooked
                            In my most active effort to regain
                            A gracious tolerances by service now:
                            Directing rapt attention to the fact
                            That I have brought mine appetite along,
                            I can but feel, ho! ho! that further words
                            Would be a waste of speech.
                            [Sits a table pours out wine, drinks and eats voraciously.]
                            
                        
                        
                        There was a time
                        
                            When I was rather backward in my ways
                            In courtly company (as though, forsooth,
                            I felt not, from my very birth, the swish
                            Of royal blood along my veins, though bred
                            Amongst the treacled scullions and the thralls
                            I shot from, like a cork, in youthful years,
                            Into court-favor by my wit's sheer stress
                            Of fomentation.,Pah! the stench o' toil!)
                            
                            Ay, somehow, as I think, I've all outgrown
                            That coarse, nice age, wherein one makes a meal
                            Of two estardles and a fork of soup.
                            Hey! sanaloo! Lest my starved stomach stand
                            Awe-stricken and aghast, with mouth agape
                            Before the rich profusion of this feast,
                            I lubricate it with a glass of merl
                            And coax it on to more familiar terms
                            Of fellowship with those delectables.
                            [Pours wine and holds up goblet with mock courtliness]
                        
                        
                            Mine host!Thou of the viewless presence and
                            Hush-haunted lip:,Thy most imperial,
                            Ethereal, and immaterial health!
                            Live till the sun dries up, and comb thy cares
                            With star-prongs till the comets fizzle out
                            And fade away and fail and are no more!
                        
                        [Drains and refills goblet]
                        
                            And, if thou wilt permit me to observe ,
                            The gleaming shaft of spirit in this wine
                            Goes whistling to its mark, and full and fair
                        
                        
                        
                            Zipps to the target-center of my soul!
                            Why, now am I the veriest gentleman
                            That ever buttered woman with a smile,
                            And let her melt and run and drip and ooze
                            All over and around a wanton heart!
                            And if my mistress bent above me now,
                            In all my hideous deformity,
                            I think she would look over, as it were,
                            The hump upon my back, and so forget
                            The kinks and knuckles of my crooked legs,
                            In this enchanting smile, she needs must leap,
                            Love-dazzled, and fall faint and fluttering
                            Within these yawning, all-devouring arms
                            Of mine! Ho! ho! And yet Crestillomeem
                            Would have me blight my dainty Dwainie with
                            This feather from the Devil's wing!But I
                            Am far too full of craft to spoil the eyes
                            That yet shall pour their love like nectar out
                            Into mine own,and I am far too deep
                            For royal wit to wade my purposes.
                        
                        
                            DWAINIE [To AMPHINE]
                            What can he mean?
                        
                        
                            AMPHINE [Chafing in suppressed frenzy]
                            Ha! to rush forward and Tear out his tongue and slap it in his face!
                        
                        
                            DWAINIE [To AMPHINE]
                            Nay, nay! Hist what he saith!
                        
                        
                        
                            JUCKLET
                            How big a fool
                            How all magnificent an idiot
                            Would I be to blight her(my peerless one!
                            My very soul's soul!) as Crestillomeem
                            Doth instigate me to, for her hate's sake
                            And inward jealousy, as well, belike! 
                            Wouldst have my Dwainie blinded to my charms
                            For charms, good sooth, were every several flaw
                            Of my malformd outer-self, compared
                            With that his Handsomeness the Prince Amphine
                            Shalt change to at a breath of my puff'd cheek,
                            E'en were it weedy-bearded at the time
                            With such a stubble as a huntsman well
                            Might lose his spaniel in! Ho! ho! Ho! ho!
                            I fear me, O my coy Crestillomeem,
                            Thine ancient coquetry doth challenge still
                            Thine own vain admiration overmuch!
                            
                                I to crush her?when thou, as certainly,
                            Hast armed me to smite down the only bar
                            That lies betwixt her love and mine? Ho! ho!
                            Hey! but the revel I shall riot in
                            Above the beauteous Prince, instantttously
                            Made all abhorrent as a reptiled bulk!
                            Ho! ho! my princely wooer of the fair
                            Rare lady of mine own superior choice!
                            Pah! but my very 'maginings of him
                            Refind to that shamd, sickening shape,
                            Do so beloathe me of him there be qualms
                            Expostulating in my forum now!
                            Ho! what unprincifying properties
                            Of medication bath her Majesty
                        
                        
                        
                            Put in my tender charge! Ho! ho! Ho! ho!
                            Ah, Dwainie! sweetest sweet! what shock to thee?
                            I wonder, when she sees the human toad
                            Squat at her feet and cock his filmy eyes
                            Upon her and croak love, if she will not
                            Call me to tweezer him with two long sticks
                            And toss him from her path.-O ho! Ho! ho!
                            Hell bend him o'er some blossom quick, that I
                            May have one brother in the flesh!
                        
                        
                            [Nods drowsily]
                            DWAINIE [To AMPHINE]
                            Ha! See!
                            He groweth drunken.Soh! Bide yet a spell
                            And I will vex him with my sorcery:
                            Then shall we hence,for lo, the node when all
                            Our subtlest arts and strategies most needs
                            Be quickened into acts and swift results.
                            Now bide thou here, and in mute silence mark
                            The righteous penalty that bath accrued
                            Upon that dwarfd monster.
                        
                        [she stands, still in concealment front the dwarf, her tense gaze fixed upon
                                hint as though in tnnte and painful act of incantntion.JUCKLET
                            affected drowsilyyawns and mumbles incoherentlystretches, and gradually sinks
                                at full length on the sward. DWAINIE
                            troves forwardAMPHINE, following, is about
                                to set foot contemptuously on sleeper's breast, but is caught and held away
                            by DWAINIS, who imperiously waves him back, and still, in pantomime,
                                
                            commanding, bids him turn and hide his face AMPINE
                            obeying as though unable to do otherwise. DWAINIE
                            then unbinds her hair, and throwing it all forward covering her face and
                                bending till it trails the ground, she lifts to the knee her dress, and so walks
                                backward in a circle round the sleeping JUCKLET, crooning to herself an incoherent song. Then pausing, letting fall her gown, and rising
                                to full stature, waves her hands above the sleeper's face, and runs to
                                AMPHINE, who turns about and gazes on her with new
                                wonderment.]
                        
                        DWAINIE [To AMPHINE]
                        Now shalt than Look on such scaith as thou hast never dreamed.
                        
                            [As she speaks, half averting her face as with melancholy apprehension, chorus
                                of lugubrious voices heard chanting discordantly.]
                        
                        
                            VOICES
                            When the fat moon smiles,
                            And the comets kiss,
                            And the elves of Spirkland flit,
                            The Whanghoo twunkers
                            A tune like this,
                            And the Nightmares champ the bit.
                        
                        
                            [As chorus dies away, a comet, freighted with weird shapes, dips from the night
                                and trails near JUCKLE'S sleeping figure, while, with
                            attendant goblin-forms, two
                        
                        Nightmares, CREECH
                            and GRITCHFANG, alight.The comet hisses,
                                switches its tail and disappears, while the two goblins hover bsaaingly over JUCKLET, who starts wide-eyed and stares fixedly at them,
                                with horribly contorted features.]
                        
                        
                            CREECH [To GRITCHFANG]
                            Buzz!
                            Buzz!
                            Buzz!
                            Buzz!
                            Flutter your wings like your grandmother does!
                            Tuck in your chin and wheel over and whir-r-r
                            
                            Like a dickerbug fast in the web of the wuhrr!
                            Reel out your tongue, and untangle your toes
                            And rattle your claws o'er the bridge of his nose;
                            Tickle his ears with your feathers and fuzz,
                            And keep up a hum like your grandmother does!
                        
                        [JUCKLET
                            moans and clutches at air convulsively.]
                        
                        AMPHINE [Shuddering]
                        Most grewsome sight! See how the poor worm writhes! How must he suffer!
                                DWAINIE
                        
                        
                            Ay, but good is meant
                            A far voice sings it so.
                        
                        
                        
                            GRITCHFANG [To CREECH]
                            Let me dive deep in his nostriline caves,
                            And keep an eye out as to how he behaves:
                            Fasten him down while I put him to rack
                            And don't let him flop from the flat of his back!
                        
                        [Shrinks to minute sine, while goblin attendants pluck from shrubbery a great
                                lily-shaped flower which they invert funnel-wise, with small cud at sleeper's
                                nostrils, hoisting GRITCHFANG
                            in at top and jostling shape downward gradually front sight, andremoving
                                flower,voice of GRITCHFANG
                            continues gleefully from within sleeper's head.]
                        
                        
                            Ho! I have bored through the floor of his brains,
                            And set them all writhing with torturous pains;
                            And I shriek out the prayer, as I whistle and whiz,
                            I may be the nightmare that my grandmother is!
                        
                        
                            [Reappears, through reversal of flower-method, assuming farmer shape, crosses
                                to CREECH, and, joining, the twain dance on
                                sleeper's stomach in broken time to duo.]
                        
                        
                            Duo
                            Whing!
                            Whang!
                            So our ancestors sang!
                            And they guzzled hot blood and blew up with a bang!
                            But they ever tenaciously clung to the rule
                            To only blow up in the hull of a fool
                        
                        
                        
                            THE LOCKERBIE BOOK
                            To fizz and explode like a cast-iron toad
                            In the cavernous depths where his victuals were stowed
                            When chances were ripest and thickest and best
                            To burst every button-hole out of his vest!
                        
                        [They pause, float high above, and fusing together into a great square iron
                                weight, drop heavily on chest of sleeper, who moans piteously.]
                        AMPHINE [Hiding his face]
                        Ah! take me hence!
                        [DWAINIE
                            leads him off, looking backward as she goes and waving her hands imploringly
                            to CREECH and GRITCHFANG, reassuming former shapes, in
                                ecstasies of insane delight.]
                        
                            CREECH [To GRITCHFANG]
                            Zipp!
                            Zipp!
                            Zipp!
                            Zipp!
                            Sting his tongue raw and unravel his lip!
                            Grope, on the right, down his windpipe, and squeeze
                            His liver as dry as a petrified wheeze!
                        
                        [GRITCHFANG
                            as beforeshrinks and disappears at sleeper's mouth.]
                        
                            Throttle his heart till he's black in the face,
                            And bury it down in some desolate place
                        
                        
                        
                            Where only remorse in pent agony lives
                            To dread the advice that your grandmother gives!
                        
                        [The sleeper struggles contortedly, while voice of GRITCH-FANG calls from
                            within.]
                        
                            GRITCHFANG
                            Ho-ho! I have clambered the rungs of his ribs
                            And beriddled his lungs into tatters and dribs;
                            And I turn up the tube of his heart like a hose
                            And squirt all the blood to the end of his nose!
                            I stamp on his stomach and caper and prance,
                            With my tail tossing round like a boomerang-lance!
                            And thus may success ever crown my intent
                            To wander the ways that my grandmother went!
                        
                        [Reappears, falls hysterically in CREECH's outstretched arms.Then dance and duo.]
                        
                            Duo
                            Whing!
                            Whung!
                            So our ancestors sung!
                            And they snorted and pawed, and they hissed and they stung,
                            Taking special terrific delight in their work
                            On the fools that they found in the lands of the Spirk.
                            And each little grain of their powders of pain
                            They scraped up and pestled again and again
                            Mixed in quadruple doses for gluttons and sots,
                            Till they strangled their dreams with gung-jibbrious knots!
                        
                        
                        [The comet again trails past, upon which the Nightmares leap and disappear.
                                JUCKLET
                            staggers to his feet and glares frenziedly aroundthen starts for opposite exit
                                of cometis there suddenly confronted with fiend-faces in the air, bewhiskered with
                                ragged purplish flames that flare audibly and huskily in abrupt alternating chill gasps
                                and hot welterings of wind. He starts back from them, reels and falls prostrate,
                                groveling terrifiedly in the dust, and chattering, with eerie music accompanying his
                                broken utterance.]
                        
                            JUCKLET
                            o! o! o!
                            Thou that dust all things know
                            Waiving all claims of mine to dare to pray,
                            Save that I needs must:Lo,
                            What may I pray for? Yea,
                            I have not any way,
                            An Thou gainsayest me a tolerance so.
                            I dare not pray
                            
                                Forgivenesstoo great
                            My vast o'ertoppling weight
                            Of sinning; nor can I
                            Pray my
                            Poor soul unscourged to go.
                            Frame Thou my prayer, o!
                            
                                What may I pray for? Dare
                            I shape a prayer,
                            In south,
                            For any cancelled joy
                            Of my marl youth,
                            Or any bliss my sin's stress did destroy?
                        
                        
                        
                            What may I pray forWhat?
                            That the wild clusters of forget-me-not
                            And mignonette
                            And violet
                            Be out of childhood brought,
                            And in mine hard heart set
                            A-blooming now as then?
                            With all their petals yet
                            Bediamonded with dews
                            Their sweet, sweet scent let loose
                            Full sumptuously again!
                        
                        
                            What may I pray, o!
                            For the poor hutchd cot
                            Where death sate squat
                            Midst my first memories?Lo!
                            My mother's face(they, whispering, told me so)
                            That face!so pinchedly
                            It blanched up, as they lifted me
                            Its frozen eyelids would
                            Not part, nor could
                            Be ever wetted open with warm tears.
                            . . . Who hears
                            The prayers for all dead-mother-sakes, o!
                        
                        
                            Leastwise one mercy:May
                            I not have leave to pray
                            All self to pass away
                            Forgetful of all needs mine own
                            Neglectful of all creeds; alone,
                        
                        
                        
                            Stand fronting Thy high throne and say:
                            To Thee,
                            O Infinite, I pray
                            Shield Thou mine enemy!
                        
                        [Music throughout supplication gradually softens and sweetens into utter
                                gentleness, with scene slow-fading into densest night.]
                        END ACT II
                        ACT III
                        SCENE I. Court of KRUNG
                            Royal Ministers, Counsellors, etc., in Session. CRESTILLOMEEM, in full blazonry of regal attire, presiding. She signals a Herald at her left,
                                who steps forward.Blare of trumpets, greeted with ominous murmurings within, blent with
                                tumult from without.
                        
                        
                            HERALD
                            Hist, ho! Ay, ay! Ay, ay!Her Majesty,
                            The All-Glorious and Ever-Gracious Queen,
                            Crestillomeem, to her most loyal, leal
                            And right devoted subjects, greeting sends
                            Proclaiming, in the absence of the King,
                            Her royal presence
                        
                        [Voice of Herald fails abruptlyutterly. A breathless hush
                                falls sudden on the conrt.A sense oppressive ominousaffects the throng. Weird music
                                heard of unseen instruments.]
                        
                        
                            HERALD [Huskily striving to be heard]
                            Hist, ho! Ay, ay! Ay, ay!Her Majesty,
                            The All-Glorious and Ever-Gracious Queen,
                            Crestillomeem
                        
                        [The Queen gasps, and clutches at Herald, mutely signing him
                                to silence, her staring eyes fixed on a shadowy figure, mistily developing before her
                                into wraith-like form and likeness of the Tune-Fool, SPRAIVOLL.
                            The shapeevidently invisible and voiceless to all senses but the Queen'swavers
                            vaporishly to and fro before her, moaning and crooning in infinitely sweet-sad minor
                            cadences a mystic song.]
                        
                            WRAITH-SONG OF SPRAIVOLL
                            
                                I will not hear the dying word
                            
                            
                                Of any friend, nor stroke the wing
                            
                            
                                Of any little wounded bird.
                            
                            . . . Lorn is the deadest thing!
                            
                            
                                I wist not if I see the smile
                            
                            
                                Of prince or wight, in court or lane.
                            
                            
                                I only know that afterwhile
                            
                            
                                He will not smile again.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                The summer blossom, at my feet,
                            
                            
                                Swims backward, drowning in the grass.
                            
                            
                                I will not stay to name it sweet
                            
                            
                                Sink out! and let me pass!
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            
                                I have no mind to feel the touch
                            
                            
                                Of gentle hands on brow and hair.
                            
                            
                                The lack of this once pained me much,
                            
                            
                                And so I have a care.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                Dead weeds, and husky-rustling leaves
                            
                            
                                That beat the dead boughs where ye cling,
                            
                            
                                And old dead nests beneath the eaves
                            
                            
                                Love is the deadest thing!
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                Ah! once I fared not all alone;
                            
                            
                                And onceno matter, rain or snow!
                            
                            
                                The stars of summer ever shone
                            
                            
                                Because I loved him so!
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                With always tremblings in his hands,
                            
                            
                                And always blushes unaware,
                            
                            
                                And always ripples down the strands
                            
                            
                                Of his long yellow hair.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                I needs must weep a little space,
                            
                            
                                Remembering his laughing eyes
                            
                            
                                And curving lip, and lifted face
                            
                            
                                Of rapture and surprise.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                O joy is dead in every part,
                            
                            
                                And life and hope; and so I sing:
                            
                            
                                In all the graveyard of my heart
                            
                            
                                Love is the deadest thing!
                            
                        
                        
                            [With dying away of song, apparition of SPRAIVOLL
                            slowly vanishes. CRESTILLOMEEM turns dazedly to throng, and with laboured
                            effort strives to reassume imperious mien.Signs for mer! and tremulously drains goblet 
                            sinks back in throne with feigned complacency, mutely waving Herald to proceed.]
                        
                            HERALD [Mechanically]
                            Hist, ho! Ay, ay! Ay, ay!Her Majesty,
                            The All-Glorious and Ever-Gracious Queen,
                            Crestillomeem, to her most loyal, leal
                            And right devoted subjects, greeting sends
                            Proclaiming, in the absence of the King,
                            Her royal presence, as by him empowered
                            To sit and occupy, maintain and hold,
                            And therefrom rule the Throne, in sovereign state,
                            And work the royal will [Confusion.] Hist, ho! Ay, ay!
                            Ay, ay!And be it known, the King, in view
                            Of his approaching dissolution
                        
                        [Sensation among Counsellors, etc., within, and wild tumult without and cries
                                "Long live the King!" and "Treason!"
                                "Intrigue!" "Sorcery!" CRESTILLOMEEM, in suppressed ire, waving silence, and Herald striving to be heard.]
                        
                            HERALD
                            Hist, ho! Ay, ay! Ay, ay! The King, in view
                            Of his approaching dissolution, hath
                            Decreed this instrumentthis royal scroll
                            [Unrolling and displaying scroll.]
                            With royal seal thereunto set by Krung's
                            Most sacred act and sign
                        
                        [General sensation within, and growing tumult without, with wrangling cries of
                                "Plot!" "Treason!" "Con-
                        
                        
                        
                            spiracyl" and "Down with the Queen!" "Down
                                with the usurper!" "Down with the Sorceress!"]
                        
                            CRESTILLOMEEM [Wildly]
                            Who dares to cry
                            "Conspiracy!" Bring me the traitor-knave!
                        
                        [Growing confusion withoutsound of rioting.Voice, "Let me be taken! Let
                                me be taken!" Enter Guards, dragging JUCKLET
                            forward, wild-eyed and hystericalthe Queen's gaze fastened on him
                                wonderingly.]
                        
                            CRESTILLOMEEM [To Guards]
                            Why bring ye Jucklet hither in this wise?
                        
                        
                            GUARD
                            O Queen, 'tis he who cries "Conspiracy!"
                            And who incites the mob without with cries
                            Of "Plot!" and "Treason!"
                        
                        
                            CRESTILLOMEEM [Starting]
                            Ha! Can this be true?
                            I'll not believe it!Jucklet is my fool,
                            But not so vast a fool that he would tempt
                            His gracious Sovereign's ire. [To Guards.] Let him be
                                freed!
                            [Then to JUCKLET, with mock
                                    service.]
                            Stand hither, O my Fool!
                        
                        
                        
                            JUCKLET [To Queen]
                            What! I, thy fool?
                            Ho! ho! Thy fool?ho! ho!Why, thou art mine!
                        
                        [Confusioncries of "Strike down the traitor!" JUCKLET wrenching himself from grasp of officers.]
                        
                            Back, all of ye! I have not waded hell
                            That I should fear your puny enmity!
                            Here will I give ye proof of all I say!
                        
                        [Presses toward throne, wedging his opposers left and right CRESTILLOMEEM
                            sits as though stricken speechlesspallid, waving him back JUCKLET, fairly fronting her, with folded armsthen to throng
                                continues.]
                        
                            Lo! do I here defy her to lift up
                            Her voice and say that Jucklet speaks a lie.
                        
                        [At sign of Queen, officers, unperceived by JUCKLET, close warily behind him.]
                        
                            And, furtherI pronounce the document
                            That craven Herald there holds in his hand
                            A forgerya trickand dare the Queen,
                            Here in my listening presence, to command
                            Its further utterance!
                        
                        CRESTILLOMEEM [Wildly rising]
                        
                            Hold, hireling!Fool!
                            The Queen thou dost in thy mad boasts insult
                            Shall utter first thy doom!
                        
                        
                        [JUCKLET, seized from behind by Guards, is
                                hurled face upward on the dais at her feet, while a minion, with drawn sword pressed
                                close against his breast, stands over him.]
                         Ere we Proceed
                        
                            With graver matters, let this demon-knave
                            Be sent back home to hell.
                        
                        [With awful stress of ire, form quivering, eyes glittering and features twitched
                                and ashen.]
                        
                            Give me the sword,
                            The insult hath been mineso even shall
                            The vengeance be!
                        
                        [As CRESTILLOMEEM
                            seizes sword and bends forward to strike, JUCKLET, with superhuman effort, frees his hand, and, with a sudden motion and an
                                incoherent muttering, flings object in his assailant's face, CRESTILLOMEEM
                            staggers backward, dropping sword, and, with arms tossed aloft, shrieks,
                                totters and falls prone upon the pave. In Confusion following JUCKLET
                            mysteriously vanishes; and as the bewildered
                            Courtiers lift the fallen Queen, a clear, piercing voice of
                                thrilling sweetness is heard singing.]
                        
                            VOICE
                            The pride of noon must wither soon
                            The dusk of death must fall;
                            Yet out of darkest night the moon
                            Shall blossom over all!
                        
                        
                        [For an instant a dense cloud envelops empty thronethen gradually lifts,
                                discovering therein, KRUNG
                            seated, in royal panoply and state, with JUCKLET
                            in act of presenting scepter to himBlare of trumpets, and chorus of
                            Courtiers, Ministers, Heralds, etc.]
                        
                            CHORUS
                            All hail! Long live the king!
                        
                        KRUNG [To throng, with grave salutation]
                        
                            Through 's own great providence, and through
                            The in tervention of an angel whom
                            I long had deemed forever lost to me,
                            Once more your favored Sovereign, do I greet
                            And tender ye my blessing, O most good
                            And faith-abiding subjects of my realm!
                            In common, too, with your long-suffering king,
                            Have ye long suffered, blamelessly as he:
                            Now, therefore, know ye all what, until late,
                            He knew not of himself, and with him share
                            The rapturous assurance that is his,
                            That, for all time to come, are we restored
                            To the old glory and most regal pride
                            And opulence and splendor of our realm.
                        
                        [Turning with pained features to the strangely stricken
                            Queen.]
                        
                            There have been, as ye needs must know, strange spells
                            And wicked sorceries at work within
                            The very dais-boundaries of the Throne.
                        
                        
                        
                            Lo! then, behold your harrier and mine,
                            And with me grieve for the self-ruined Queen
                            Who grovels at my feet, blind, speechless, and
                            So stricken with a curse herself designed
                            Should light upon Hope's fairest minister.
                        
                        [Motions attendants, who lead away CRESTILLOMEEM
                            
                            the King gazing after her, overmastered with stress of his emotions.He leans
                                heavily on throne, as though oblivious to all surroundings, and, shaping into speech his
                                varying thought, as in a trance, speaks as though witless of both utterance and
                            auditor.]
                        
                            I loved her.Why? I never knew.Perhaps
                            Because her face was fair; perhaps because
                            Her eyes were blue and wore a weary air;
                            Perhaps . . . perhaps because her limpid face
                            Was eddied with a restless tide, wherein
                            The dimkples found no place to anchor and
                            Abide: perhaps because her tresses beat
                            A froth of gold about her throat, and poured
                            In splendor to the feet that ever seemed
                            Afloat. Perhaps because of that wild way
                            Her sudden laughter overleapt propriety;
                            Orwho will say?perhaps the way she wept.
                            Ho! have ye seen the swollen heart of summer
                            Tempest, o'er the plain, with throbs of thunder
                            Burst apart and drench the earth with rain? She
                            Wept like that.And to recall, with one wild glance
                            Of memory, our last love-partingtears
                            And all . . . It thrills and maddens me! And yet
                            My dreams will hold her, flushed from lifted brow
                        
                        
                        
                            To finger-tips, with passion's ripest kisses
                            Crushed and mangled on her lips . . . O woman!
                            while
                            Your face was fair, and heart was pure, and lips
                            Were true, and hope as golden as your hair,
                            I should have strangled you!
                        
                        [As KRUNG, ceasing to speak, piteously
                                lifts his face, SPRAIVOLL
                            all suddenly appears, in space left vacant by the Queen, and,
                                kneeling, kisses the King's hand.He bends in tenderness,
                                kissing her browthen lifts and seats her at his side. Speaks then to throng.]
                        
                            Good SubjectsLords:
                            Behold in this sweet woman here my child
                            Whom, years agone, the cold, despicable
                            Crestillomeemby baleful, wicked arts
                            And grewsome spells and fearsome witcheries
                            Did spirit off to some strange otherland,
                            Where, happily, a Wunkland Princess found
                            Her, and undid the spell by sorcery
                            More potentay, Divine, since it works naught
                            But good the gift of o, to right wrong.
                            This magic dower the Wunkland Princess hath
                            Enlisted in our restoration here,
                            In secret service, till this joyful hour
                            Of our complete deliverance. Even thus.
                            Lo, let the peerless Princess now appear!
                        
                        [He lifts scepter, and a gust of melody, divinely beautiful, sweeps through the
                                court.The star above the
                        
                        
                        
                            throne loosens and drops slowly downward, bursting like a bubble on the
                                scepter-tip, and, issuing therefrom, AMPHINE
                            and DWAINIE, hand in hand, kneel at the
                                feet of KRUNG, who bends above them with his
                                blessing, while JUCKLET
                            capers wildly round the group.]
                        
                            JUCKLET
                            Ho! ho! but I could shriek for very joy!
                            And though my recent rival, fair Amphine,
                            Doth even now bend o'er a blossom, I,
                            Bespirit me! have no lingering desire
                            To meddle with it, though with but one eye
                            I slept the while she backward walked around
                            Me in the garden.
                        
                        [AMPHINE
                            dubiously smiles JUCKLET
                            blinks and leers and DWAINIE
                            bites her finger.]
                        
                            KRUNG
                            Peace! good Jucklet! Peace!
                            For this is not a time for any jest.
                            Though the old order of our realm hath been
                            Restored, and though restored my very life
                            Though I have found a daughter,I have lost
                            A sonfor Dwainie, with her sorcery,
                            Will, on the morrow, carry him away.
                            'Tis 's largess, as our love is His,
                            And our abiding trust and gratefulness.
                        
                        CURTAIN
                    
                    
                    
                        Close the Book
                        
                            CLOSE the book, and leave the tale
                            All unfinished. It is best:
                            Brighter fancy will not fail
                            To relate the rest.
                        
                        
                            We have read it on and on,
                            Till each character, in sooth,
                            By the master-touches drawn,
                            Is a living truth.
                        
                        
                            Leave it so, and let us sit,
                            With the volume laid away
                            Cut no other leaf of it,
                            But as Fancy may
                        
                        
                            Then the friends that we have met
                            In its pages will endure,
                            And the villain, even yet,
                            May be white and pure.
                        
                        
                            Close the book, and leave the tale
                            All unfinished. It is best:
                            Brighter fancy will not fail
                            To relate the rest.
                        
                    
                
            
        
        
            
            
                INDEXES
                INDEX OF TITLES INDEX OF FIRST LINES
                
                
                    INDEX OF TITLES
                    
                    INDEX OF TITLES
                    
                        AFTER DEATH
                            396
                        AFTERWHILES
                            17
                        ALL-GOLDEN, THE
                            92
                        ALL-KIND MOTHER, THE
                            360
                        AMERICA
                            305
                        ANSELMO
                            42
                        ART AND LOVE
                            38
                        AS CREATED
                            235
                        AT BROAD RIPPLE
                            76
                        AT CROWN HILL
                            250
                        AT HIS WINTRY TENT
                            255
                        AT NOONAND MIDNIGHT
                            72
                        AT SEA
                            270
                        AT UTTER LOAF
                            170
                        AUGUST
                            157
                        AUTUMN
                            149
                        AUTUMNAL TONIC, AN
                            321
                        AWAY
                            3
                        BABY'S DYING
                            88
                        BABYHOOD
                            57
                        BAN, THE
                            258
                        BAT, THE
                            74
                        BEAUTIFUL CITY, THE
                            30
                        BECALMED
                            31
                        BED, THE
                            266
                        BEDOUIN
                            150
                        BEING HIS MOTHER
                            132
                        BELLS JANGLED
                            53
                        BEREAVED
                            345
                        BILLY COULD RIDE
                            108
                        
                        BLIND
                            136
                        BLIND GIRL, THE
                            221
                        BLOSSOMS ON THE TREES, THE
                            145
                        BOOK OF JOYOUS CHILDREN, THE
                            372
                        BOY-FRIEND, THE
                            119
                        BOY PATRIOT, THE
                            365
                        BOYS, THE
                            85
                        BRIDE, A 10
                        BROOK-SONG, THE
                            113
                        BUSCH AND TOMMY
                            393
                        BY HER WHITE BED
                            176
                        CHILD'S CHRISTMAS CAROL
                            285
                        CHILD'S HOMELONG AGO, A 84
                        CHILDREN OF THE CHILDLESS, THE
                            337
                        CHRIST, THE
                            264
                        CIRCUS-DAY PARADE, THE
                            117
                        CLOSE THE BOOK
                            411
                        COUNTRY EDITOR, THE
                            312
                        COUNTRY PATHWAY, A 128
                        CURLY LOCKS
                            111
                        CURSE OF THE WANDERING FOOT, THE
                            187
                        CYCLONE, THE
                            185
                        DAN PAINE
                            154
                        DAS KRIST KINDEL
                            12
                        DAVE FIELD
                            291
                        DAYS GONE BY, THE
                            77
                        DEAD LOVER, THE
                            37
                        DEAD, MY LORDS
                            344
                        DEAD SELVES
                            348
                        DEAD WIFE, THE
                            362
                        DEAR HANDS
                            61
                        
                        DEARTH
                            29
                        DEATH
                            384
                        DISCOURAGING MODEL, A 2
                        DITTY OF NO TONE, A 179
                        DOCTOR, THE
                            329
                        DOLORES
                            386
                        DONN PIATT OF MAC-O-CHEE
                            159
                        "DREAM" 401
                        DREAM OF AUTUMN, A 180
                        DREAM OF THE LITTLE PRINCES, THE
                            115
                        DREAMER, SAY
                            222
                        DRUM, THE
                            69
                        DUSK
                            11
                        DUSK-SONG THE BEETLE
                            107
                        EDGAR WILSON NYE
                            289
                        EDGE OF THE WIND, THE
                            259
                        ELIZABETH
                            183
                        EMERSON
                            232
                        EMPTY GLOVE, AN
                            223
                        EMPTY NEST, AN
                            314
                        ENDURING, THE
                            251
                        ENVOY
                            127
                        ENVOY
                            195
                        ENVOY
                            227
                        ENVOY
                            209
                        ERE I WENT MAD
                            390
                        ETERNITY
                            383
                        EUGENE FIELD
                            260
                        EVEN AS A CHILD
                            320
                        EVENSONG
                            370
                        EXCEEDING ALL
                            99
                        
                        FAME
                            34
                        FLYING ISLANDS OF THE NIGHT, THE
                            410
                        FOE YOU
                            378
                        FROG, THE
                            215
                        FROM A BALLOON
                            347
                        FROM DELPHI TO CAMDEN
                            239
                        FROM THE HEADBOARD OF A GRAVE IN
                                PARAGUAY
                            32
                        FRUIT-PIECE, A 46
                        FUNNY LITTLE FELLOW, THE
                            79
                        GENERAL LEW WALLACE
                            306
                        GIVE ME THE BABY
                            363
                        GLIMPSE OF PAN, A 172
                        "GO READ YOUR BOOK!" 295
                        GO WINTER! 158
                        GOD BLESS US EVERY ONE
                            373
                        GOOD-BYE, A 209
                        GOOD MAN, A 336
                        GRANT
                            19
                        GREAT GOD PAN, THE
                            301
                        HARPER, THE
                            44
                        HAS SHE FORGOTTEN? 70
                        HE AND I 219
                        HE CALLED HER IN
                            90
                        HE COMETH IN SWEET SENSE
                            277
                        HENRY W. GRADY
                            238
                        HENRY IRVING
                            318
                        HER BEAUTIFUL EYES
                            146
                        HER BEAUTIFUL HANDS
                            271
                        HER HAIR
                            24
                        HEREAFTER, THE
                            138
                        HERR WEISER
                            5
                        
                        HIS CHRISTMAS SLED
                            105
                        HIS HEART OF CONSTANT YOUTH
                            302
                        HIS LAST PICTURE
                            313
                        HIS MOTHER
                            405
                        HIS ROOM 280
                        HIS VIGIL 143
                        HOME AT NIGHT
                            147
                        HOME-VOYAGE, THE
                            265
                        HOOSIER FOLK-CHILD, THE
                            191
                        HOOSIER IN EXILE, THE
                            308
                        HUMBLE SINGER A 307
                        HUNTER BOY, THE
                            123
                        HYMN EXULTANT
                            233
                        I SMOKE MY PIPE
                            290
                        IF I KNEW WHAT POETS KNOW
                            47
                        IKE WALTON'S PRAYER 23
                        ILLILEO
                            22
                        IN A BOX
                            58
                        IN BOHEMIA
                            65
                        IN STATE
                            278
                        IN SWIMMING-TIME
                            356
                        IN THE DARK
                            75
                        IN THE EVENING
                            269
                        IN THE SOUTH
                            63
                        INDIANA
                            33
                        IRON HORSE, THE
                            140
                        JACK-IN-THE-BOX
                            78
                        JOHN BROWN
                            130
                        JOHN MC KEEN
                            169
                        JUDITH
                            129
                        
                        JUNE
                            13
                        JUNE AT WOODRUFF
                            194
                        JUST TO BE GOOD
                            148
                        KATHLEEN MAVOURNEEN
                            283
                        KING, THE
                            39
                        KISSING THE ROD
                            50
                        KNEELING WITH HERRICK
                            56
                        LAND OF USED-TO-BE, THE
                            86
                        LAST NIGHTAND THIS
                            27
                        LAUGHING SONG
                            335
                        LAUGHTER
                            379
                        LAUGHTER HOLDING BOTH HIS SIDES
                            25
                        LEAVE-TAKING, A 55
                        LEGEND GLORIFIED, THE
                            51
                        L'ENVOY
                            409
                        LEONAINIE
                            225
                        LET SOMETHING GOOD BE SAID
                            229
                        LET US FORGET
                            151
                        LIFE AT THE LAKE
                            332
                        LIFE-LESSON, A 4
                        LIGHT OF LOVE, THE
                            388
                        LINCOLN
                            228
                        LINCOLN-THE BOY
                            340
                        LITTLE DAVID
                            205
                        LITTLE GIRLY-GIRL
                            118
                        LITTLE LADY THE
                            364
                        "LITTLE MAN IN THE TIN-SHOP, THE" 357
                        LITTLE MARJORIE
                            358
                        LITTLE RED-APPLE TREE, THE
                            94
                        LITTLE RED RIBBON, THE
                            196
                        LITTLE WHITE HEARSE, THE
                            402
                        
                        LITTLE WOMAN, THE
                            304
                        LOCKERBIE FAIR
                            293
                        LOCKERBIE STREET
                            1
                        LONGFELLOW
                            309
                        LONGFELLOW'S LOVE FOR
                                THE CHILDREN
                            93
                        LOST KISS, THE
                            28
                        LOST LOVE, A 281
                        LOST PATH, THE
                            64
                        LOUNGER, A 398
                        LOVELINESS, THE
                            311
                        LOVELY CHILD, THE
                            208
                        LOVING CUP, THE
                            247
                        LULLABY
                            59
                        MABEL
                            87
                        MASQUE OF THE SEASONS, A 367
                        MC FEETERS' FOURTH
                            96
                        MONUMENT FOR THE SOLDIERS, A 163
                        MOON-DROWNED
                            71
                        MORNING
                            300
                        MOTHER GOOSE
                            91
                        MOTHER SAINTED, THE
                            252
                        MOTHER-SONG, A 121
                        MUTE SINGER, THE
                            275
                        MY BACHELOR CHUM
                            287
                        MY BRIDE THAT IS TO BE
                            217
                        MY FOE
                            338
                        MY FRIEND
                            165
                        NAME OF OLD GLORY, THE
                            234
                        NATURALIST, THE
                            240
                        NESSMUK
                            190
                        
                        NO BOY KNOWS
                            366
                        NOBLEST SERVICE, THE
                            257
                        NONSENSE RHYME, A 114
                        NOON INTERVAL, A 279
                        NORTH AND SOUTH
                            135
                        "O LIFE! O BEYOND!" 231
                        OLD CHUMS
                            351
                        OLD DAYS, THE
                            339
                        OLD FRIEND, AN
                            288
                        OLD GUITAR, THE
                            253
                        OLD HEC'S IDOLATRY
                            286
                        OLD MAN OF THE SEA, THE
                            273
                        OLD, OLD WISH, THE
                            120
                        OLD RETIRED SEA-CAPTAIN THE
                            156
                        OLD SCHOOL-CHEM, THE
                            202
                        OLD SCHOOL-DAY ROMANCES
                            276
                        OLD SWEETHEART OF MINE, AN
                            54
                        OLD-TIMER, AN
                            200
                        OLD TRUNDLE-BED, THE
                            206
                        OLD YEAR AND THE NEW, THE
                            134
                        ON A FLY-LEAF
                            242
                        ON A YOUTHFUL PORTRAIT OF STEVENSON
                            246
                        ON READING DR. HENRY VAN DYKE'S VOLUME POEMSMUSIC
                            316
                        ON THE SUNNY SIDE
                            104
                        ONE AFTERNOON
                            350
                        ONE WITH A SONG
                            241
                        ONWARD TRAIL, THE
                            248
                        ORCHARD LANDS OF LONG AGO, THE
                            125
                        ORDER FOR A SONG, AN
                            284
                        ORLIE WILDE
                            210
                        
                        OSCAR C. MC CULLOCH
                            243
                        OUR BOYHOOD HAUNTS
                            261
                        OUR KIND OF A MAN
                            26
                        OUR LITTLE GIRL
                            333
                        OUR OWN
                            224
                        OURS
                            330
                        OUT OF NAZARETH
                            189
                        "OUT OF REACH" 331
                        OUT OF THE DARK AND THE DEARTH
                            377
                        OUT OF THE HITHERWHERE
                            216
                        OUT TO OLD AUNT MARY'S
                            6
                        OUT-WORN SAPPHO, AN
                            395
                        PAN
                            49
                        PANSIES
                            112
                        PARTING GUEST, A 334
                        PASSING HAIL, A 126
                        PASSING OF A HEART, THE
                            166
                        PATHS OF PEACE, THE
                            282
                        PEACE-HYMN OF THE REPUBLIC, A 249
                        PIXY PEOPLE, THE
                            81
                        PLAINT HUMAN, THE
                            141
                        POET OF THE FUTURE, THE
                            353
                        POOR MAN'S WEALTH, A 197
                        PRAYER PERFECT, THE
                            82
                        QUARREL, THE
                            142
                        QUEST OF THE FATHERS, THE
                            310
                        QUIET LODGER, THE
                            161
                        RAIN, THE
                            68
                        RAINY MORNING, THE
                            322
                        
                        REACH YOUR HAND TO ME
                            177
                        RED RIDING-HOOD
                            254
                        REST, THE
                            328
                        RIDES OF THE KNEE, THE
                            106
                        RIPEST PEACH, THE
                            15
                        RIVAL, THE
                            162
                        ROBERT BURNS WILSON
                            181
                        ROMAUNT OF KING MORDAMEER, THE
                            375
                        ROSE, THE
                            182
                        ROSE-LADY, THE
                            317
                        SAY SOMETHING TO ME
                            256
                        SCRAWL A 8
                        SEA-SONG FROM THE SHORE, A 354
                        SEPTEMBER DARK
                            171
                        SERENADE, THE
                            41
                        SERMON OF THE ROSE, THE
                            244
                        SHOWER, THE
                            36
                        SILENCE
                            18
                        SILENT SINGER, THE
                            263
                        SILENT VICTORS, THE
                            199
                        SINGER, THE
                            192
                        SIS RAPALYE
                            324
                        SLEEP
                            152
                        SLEEP
                            21
                        SLEEPING BEAUTY, A 98
                        SLUMBER-SONG
                            212
                        SOLDIER, THE
                            303
                        SOME IMITATIONS
                            407
                            
                                POMONA
                                
                                THE PASSING OF A ZEPHYR
                                
                                A RHYME FOR CHRISTMAS
                                
                            
                        
                        SOME SONGS AFTER MASTER-SINGERS
                            368
                            
                                SONG
                                
                                TO THE CHILD JULIA
                                
                                THE DOLLY'S MOTHER
                                
                                WIND OF THE SEA
                                
                                BORN TO THE PURPLE
                                
                                SUBTLETY
                                
                            
                        
                        SOMEDAY
                            349
                        SONG, A 45
                        SONGFOR NOVEMBER
                            103
                        SONG I NEVER SING, THE
                            204
                        SONG OF LONG AGO, A 174
                        SONG OF PARTING
                            406
                        SONG OF SINGING, A 371
                        SONG OF THE CRUISE, A 355
                        SONG OF THE ROAD, A 236
                        SONG OF YESTERDAY, THE
                            102
                        SONGS OF A LIFE-TIME
                            297
                        SONGS TUNELESS
                            381
                        SOUTH WIND AND THE SUN, THE
                            14
                        SOUTHERN SINGER, A 173
                        SPEEDING OF THE KING'S SPITE, THE
                            391
                        SPHINX, THE
                            20
                        SPRING SONG AND A LATER, A 315
                        SUDDEN SHOWER, A 101
                        SUSPENSE
                            168
                        THANKSGIVING
                            78
                        THEIR SWEET SORROW
                            155
                        THERE WAS A CHERRY-TREE
                            387
                        "THIS DEAR CHILD-HEARTED WOMAN THAT IS DEAD" 213
                        THREE DEAD FRIENDS
                            62
                        
                        THREE SEVERAL BIRDS
                            403
                            
                                THE ROMANCER
                                
                                THE POET
                                
                                BOOKMAN'S CATCH
                                
                            
                        THREE SINGING FRIENDS
                            203
                            
                                LEE O. HARRIS
                                
                                BENJ. S. PARKER
                                
                                JAMES NEWTON MATTHEWS
                                
                            
                        THROUGH SLEEPY-LAND
                            218
                        TIME
                            16
                        TIME OF CLEARER TWITTERINGS
                            110
                        TINKLE OF BELLS, A 272
                        TO A JILTED SWAIN
                            214
                        TO A SKULL
                            359
                        TO AN IMPORTUNATE GHOST
                            359
                        TO BENJ. S. PARKER
                            408
                        TO BLISS CARMAN
                            404
                        TO EDGAR WILSON NYE
                            198
                        TO HEAR HER SING
                            137
                        TO MY GOOD MASTER
                            60
                        TO SANTA CLAUS
                            262
                        TO SANTA CLAUS
                            9
                        TO THE JUDGE
                            237
                        TO THE SERENADER
                            186
                        TO THE WINE-GOD MERLUS
                            397
                        TOIL
                            274
                        TOM VAN ARDEN
                            144
                        TOMMY SMITH
                            382
                        TREASURE OF THE WISE MAN, THE
                            369
                        TRIBUTE OF HIS HOME, THE
                            296
                        TWINTORETTE, A 385
                        
                        UNCLE SIDNEY'S VIEWS
                            80
                        UNHEARD, THE
                            268
                        UNINTERPRETED
                            89
                        UNLESS
                            298
                        USED-TO-BE, THE
                            342
                        VARIATION, A 394
                        VISION OF SUMMER, A 346
                        VOICE FROM THE FARM, A 40
                        VOICE OF PEACE, THE
                            325
                        VOICES, THE 207
                        WAIT FOR THE MORNING
                            52
                        WANDERING JEW, THE
                            184
                        WATCHES OF THE NIGHT, THE
                            164
                        WATER-COLOR, A 133
                        WAY THE BABY CAME, THE
                            97
                        WAY THE BABY SLEPT, THE
                            95
                        WAY THE BABY WOKE, THE
                            116
                        WE ARE NOT ALWAYS GLAD WHEN WE SMILE
                            392
                        WE MUST BELIEVE
                            319
                        WE MUST GET HOME
                            323
                        WE TO SIGH INSTEAD OF SING
                            167
                        WEREWIEE, THE
                            376
                        WHAT A DEAD MAN SAID
                            352
                        WHAT REDRESS
                            201
                        WHAT THE WIND SAID
                            245
                        WHAT TITLE? 326
                        WHEN AGE COMES ON
                            153
                        WHEN BESSIE DIED
                            35
                        WHEN EARLY MARCH SEEMS MIDDLE MAY
                            100
                        WHEN I DO MOCK
                            211
                        
                        WHEN JUNE IS HERE
                            7
                        WHEN MY DREAMS COME TRUE
                            73
                        WHEN SHE COMES HOME
                            374
                        WHERE-AWAY
                            131
                        WHERE SHALL WE LAND? 67
                        WHERE THE CHILDREN USED TO PLAY
                            48
                        WHILE THE HEART BEATS YOUNG
                            389
                        WHILE THE MUSICIAN PLAYED
                            139
                        WHITHERAWAYS, THE
                            124
                        WHITTIERAT NEWBURYPORT
                            267
                        WHO BIDES HIS TIME
                            43
                        WIFE-BLESSED, THE
                            175
                        WILLOW, THE
                            399
                        WINDY DAY, A 226
                        WINTER FANCIES
                            83
                        WITCH OF ERKMURDEN, THE
                            380
                        WITH THE CURRENT
                            122
                        WORN-OUT PENCIL, A 66
                        WRAITH OF SUMMER-TIME, A 188
                        YELLOWBIRD, THE
                            220
                        YLLADMAR
                            294
                        YOU MAY NOT REMEMBER
                            341
                        YOUNG OLD MAN, THE
                            292
                        YOUR HEIGHT IS OURS
                            230
                        YOUR VIOLIN
                            361
                    
                
            
            
            
                INDEX OF FIRST LINES
                
                
                    A day of torpor in the sullen heat 201
                    A deep, delicious hush in earth and sky 353
                    A face of youth mature; a mouth of tender 313
                    A goddess, with a siren's grace 266
                    A good man never dies 431
                    A Kingestranged from his loving Queen 502
                    A little maid, of summers four 473
                    A misty morningfaint, and far away 318
                    A modest singer, with meek soul and heart 401
                    A monument for the Soldiers! 210
                    A peaceful life;just toil and rest 291
                    A poor man? Yes, I must confess 248
                    A song of Long Ago 222
                    A thoughtful brow and faceof sallow hue 407
                    A troth, and a grief, and a blessing 43
                    A woman's figure, on a ground of night 215
                    Ah, luxury! Beyond the heat 92
                    Ah! this delights me more than words could tell 514
                    Ah, what a long and loitering way 406
                    All hope of rest withdrawn me! 236
                    All listlessly we float 81
                    All sudden she hath ceased to sing 328
                    Alone they walkedtheir fingers knit together 77
                    Always I see her in a saintly guise 464
                    Always suddenly they are gone 73
                    An afternoon as ripe with heat 217
                    An alien wind that blew and blew 120
                    An empty glovelong withering in the grasp 286
                    An old sweetheart of mine!Is this her presence here with me 64
                    And this is the way the baby woke 145
                    
                    And where's the Land of Used-to-be, does little baby wonder? 106
                    And yet she does not sti 319
                    As a harvester, at dusk 192
                    As one in sorrow looks upon 168
                    As the little white hearse went glimmering by 519
                    As when in dreams we sometimes hear 260
                    Awake, he loved their voices 116
                    Ay, thou varlet! Laugh away! 36
                    Baby's dying 108
                    Bard of our Western world!its prairies wide 259
                    Barefooted boys scud up the stree 123
                    Be our fortunes as they may 388
                    Bear with us, O Great Captain, if our pride 331
                    Because her eyes were far too deep 518
                    Being his mother,when he goes away 167
                    Below, cool grasses: over us 448
                    Beyond the purple, hazy trees 437
                    Billy was born for a horse's back! 133
                    Blossoms crimson, white or blue 189
                    Bound and bordered in leaf-green 479
                    Bowed, midst a universal grief that makes 386
                    Breath of morningbreath of May 390
                    But yesterday 124
                    By her white bed I muse a little space 224
                    Christ used to be like you and me 360
                    Clarence, my boy-friend, hale and strong! 148
                    Close the book and dim the light 185
                    Close the book, and leave the tale 611
                    Clouds above, as white as wool 455
                    Curly Locks! Curly Locks! wilt thou be mine? 138
                    
                    Dead, my lords and gentlemen! 439
                    Dead! my wayward boymy own
                        525
                    Dear Lord! kind Lord! 101
                    Dear Lord, to Thee my knee is bent 68
                    Dear Mother Goose! most motherly and dear 114
                    Deep, tender, firm and true, the Nation's heart 250
                    Dimple-cheeked and rosy-lipped 494
                    Donn Piattof Mac-o-chee 204
                    Down in the night I hear them 263
                    Dreamer, say, will you dream for me 285
                    Elizabeth! Elizabeth! 231
                    Ere I went mad 501
                    Even as a child to whom sad neighbors speak 414
                    Even as the gas-flames flicker to and fro 103
                    Far in the night, and yet no rest for him! The pillow next his own 88
                    "Father!" (so the Word) He cried 330
                    For the Song's sake; even so 533
                    For you, I could forget the gay 488
                    Friend of my earliest youth 300
                    From Delphi to Camdenlittle Hoosier towns 302
                    Get gone, thou most uncomfortable ghost! 243
                    Get thee back neglected friends 274
                    Give me the baby to hold, my dear 465
                    Go, Winter! Go thy ways! We want again 203
                    "God bless us every one!" prayed Tiny Tim 481
                    "Good-bye, my friend!" 265
                    Ha! my dear! I'm back again 78
                    Hail! Ho! 453
                    Hail to thee, with all good cheer! 335
                    
                    Has she forgotten? On this very May 86
                    He called her in from me and shut the door 110
                    He cometh in sweet sense to thee 351
                    He faced his canvas as a seer whose ken 50
                    He had toiled away for a weary while 344
                    "He is my friend," I said 213
                    He is the morning's poet 524
                    He kisses me! Ah, now, at last 492
                    He leaned against a lamp-post, lost 516
                    He puts the poem by, to say 257
                    He rests at last, as on the mother-breast 423
                    He shall sleep unscathed of thieves 238
                    He sings: and his song is heard 304
                    He would have holidayoutworn, in sooth 357
                    Hear what a dead man said to me 450
                    Heigh-ho! Babyhood! Tell me where you linger 69
                    Heigh-o! our jolly tilts at New World song! 361
                    Her hair was, oh, so dense a blur 383
                    Her heart knew naught of sorrow 429
                    Here where of old was heard 426
                    Here where the wayward stream 255
                    Hereafter! O we need not waste 179
                    Herein are blown from out the South 220
                    Herr Weiser!Threescore-years-and-ten 5
                    Hey! my little Yellowbird 282
                    Hey, Old Midsummer! are you here again 377
                    Hi and whoop-hooray, boys! 128
                    Ho! but the darkness was densely black! 488
                    Ho! did ye hear of Mordameer 482
                    Ho! ho! thou jolly god, with kinked lips 515
                    Ho! I'm going back to where 326
                    Ho! my little maiden 497
                    
                    Ho I we are loose. Hear how they shout 444
                    How many of my selves are dead? 445
                    How many times that grim old phrase 384
                    How slight a thing may set one's fancy drifting 135
                    How tired I am! I sink down all alone 511
                    Hunter Boy of Hazelwood 153
                    I am looking for Love. Has he passed this way 517
                    I am tired of this! 509
                    I cannot say, and I will not say 3
                    I can't extend to every friend 378
                    I come upon it suddenly, alone 160
                    I crave, dear Lord 34
                    "I deem that God is not disquieted" 61
                    I dream that you are kisses Allah sent 411
                    I find an old deserted nest 409
                    I had fed the fire and stirred it, till the sparkles in delight 14
                    I hail thee, Nessmuk, for the lofty tone 240
                    I hold that the true age of wisdom is when 98
                    I hold your trembling hand to-nightand yet 40
                    I know all about the Sphinx 31
                    I lie low-coiled in a nest of dreams 63
                    I muse to-day, in a listless way 308
                    I pray you, do not use this thing 256
                    I put by the half-written poem 39
                    I saw them last night in a box at the play 70
                    I so loved once, when Death came by I hid 209
                    I watch him, with his Christmas sled 130
                    I want to be a Soldier! 467
                    I want to sing somethingbut this is all 11
                    If all his mourning friends unselfishly 323
                    
                    If Browning only were here 529
                    "If I die first," my old chum paused to say 450
                    If I knew what poets know 57
                    If I might see his face to-day! 283
                    Illileo, the moonlight seemed lost across the vales 32
                    I'm home again, my dear old Room 354
                    I'm The Old Man of the SeaI am! 342
                    In childish days! O memory 95
                    In fancy, always, at thy desk, thrown wide 72
                    In gentlest worship has he bowed 303
                    In its color, shade and shine 237
                    In the evening of our days 337
                    In the need that bows us thus 398
                    In youth he wrought, with eyes ablur 223
                    Is it the martins or katydids? 352
                    It is a various tribute you command 422
                    It is my dream to have you here with me 52
                    It tossed its head at the wooing breeze 230
                    It was just a very 98
                    It was needless to say 'twas a glorious day 118
                    John McKeen, in his rusty dress 216
                    Just as of old! The world rolls on and on 246
                    Just as of old,with fearless foot 315
                    Just drifting on together 281
                    Just the airiest, fairiest slip of a thing 2
                    Just to be good 191
                    Kathleen Mavourneen! The song is still ringing 358
                    Knightly Rider of the Knee 131
                    Last nighthow deep the darkness was! 38
                    Last night, in some lost mood of meditation 149
                    
                    Lay away the story 477
                    Leave him here in the fresh greening grasses and trees 317
                    Let me come in where you sit weeping,--ay 440
                    Let me write you a rune of a rhyme, Dave Field 380
                    Let us be thankfulnot only because 225
                    Let us forget. What matters it that we 196
                    Let us rest ourselves a bit! 156
                    LeonainieAngels named her 288
                    Like a drift of faded blossoms 54
                    Lilies are both pure and fair 265
                    Lithe-armed, and with satin-soft shoulders 498
                    Little brook! Little brook! 140
                    Little Busch and Tommy Hays 508
                    Little Girly-Girl, of you 147
                    Little Julia, since that we 472
                    Lo, I am dying! And to feel the King 496
                    Lo, whatever is at hand 461
                    Long life's a lovely thing to know 121
                    Make me a song of all good things 359
                    Mamma is a widow: There's only us three 381
                    Many pleasures of Youth have been buoyantly sung 158
                    Mellow hazes, lowly trailing 227
                    Most like it was this kingly lad 475
                    Most tangible of all the gods that be 12
                    Mother, O Mother! forever I cry for you 150
                    Music!Yea, and the airs you play 410
                    My foe? You name yourself, then,I refuse 433
                    My little woman, of you I sing 396
                    Nay, Death, thou mightiest of all 400
                    Neglected now is the old guitar 320
                    
                    No song is mine of Arab steed 181
                    Not only master of his art was he 322
                    Now hidden in among the forest-trees 168
                    O a corpulent man is my bachelor chum 376
                    O gentlest kinsman of Humanity 403
                    O heart of mine, we shouldn't 60
                    O her beautiful eyes! they are as blue as the dew 190
                    O her eyes are amber-fine 164
                    "O I am weary!" she sighed, as her billowy 13
                    O I will walk with you, my lad, whichever way you fare 299
                    O in the depths of midnight 91
                    O it was but a dream I had 180
                    O love is like an untamed steed! 195
                    O Pan is the goodliest god, I wist 390
                    O princely poet!kingly heir 292
                    O queenly month of indolent repose! 18
                    O simple as the rhymes that tell 434
                    O soul of mine, look out and see 277
                    O the days gone by! O the days gone by! 94
                    O the drum! 84
                    O the Lands of Where-Away! 166
                    O the Little Lady's dainty 466
                    O the Lockerbie Fair!Have you heard of its fame 382
                    O the night was dark and the night was late 477
                    O the old trundle-bed where I slept when a boy! 362
                    O the poet of the Future! He will come to no as comes 452
                    O the South Wind and the Sun! 18
                    O the sun and the rain, and the rain and the sun! 454
                    O the waiting in the watches of the night! 211
                    
                    O this is the way the baby came 119
                    O touch me with your hands 213
                    O what a weary while it is to stand 496
                    O "William,"in thy blythe companionship 249
                    O your handsthey are strangely fair! 339
                    Of the North I wove a dream 170
                    Of the wealth of facts and fancies 347
                    Oh! the Circus-Day Parade! How the bugles played and played! 146
                    Oh, the golden afternoon! 526
                    Old friend of mine, whose chiming name 198
                    Old Glory! say, who 296
                    One in the musical throng 336
                    Orphaned, I cry to thee 196
                    Our Landour Home!the common home indeed 44
                    Out at Woodruff Placeafar 244
                    Out of the hitherwhere into the Yon 276
                    Pansies! Pansies! How I love you, pansies! 139
                    "Rain and rain! and rain and rain I" 214
                    Rarest mood of all the year! 151
                    Reach your hand to me, my friend 224
                    Ringlety-jing! 141
                    Robert Louis Stevenson! 327
                    Say farewell, and let me go 525
                    Say something to me! I've waited so long 322
                    Schoolmaster and Songmaster! Memory 258
                    Season of snows, and season of flowers 183
                    She came to me in a dazzling guise 487
                    She sang a song of May for me 410
                    
                    She will not smile 67
                    Sing! gangling lad, along the brink 478
                    Sing us something full of laughter 430
                    Singers there are of courtly themes 305
                    Sleep, little one! The Twilight folds her gloom 273
                    Snow is in the air 532
                    So lone I stood, the very trees seemed drawn 234
                    Someday:So many tearful eyes 447
                    Songs of a Life-Timewith the Singer's head 387
                    Strange dreams of what I used to be 324
                    Strangestrange, O mortal Life 293
                    Such a dear little street it is, nestled away 1
                    Summer or Winter or Spring or Fall 470
                    Supinely we lie in the grove's shady greenery 109
                    Sweet little face, so full of slumber now 107
                    Sweet little myth of the nursery story 321
                    The afternoon of summer folds 56
                    The air falls chill 219
                    The Beautiful City! Forever 41
                    The beauty of her hair bewilders me 36
                    The bobolink he sings a single song 521
                    The Bookman he's a humming-bird 522
                    The Children of the Childless!Yoursand mine 432
                    The clouds have deepened o'er the night 499
                    The dawn of the day was dreary 415
                    The dawn was a dawn of splendor 289
                    The frightened herds of clouds across the sky 14
                    The green below and the blue above! 428
                    The Hoosier Folk-Childall unsung 240
                    The Hoosier in exilea toast 402
                    The kind of a man for you and me! 37
                    
                    The landscape, like the awed face of a child 48
                    The light of the moon on the white of the snow 340
                    The Little-red-apple Tree! 116
                    The little red ribbon, the ring and the rose! 247
                    The man that rooms next door to me 206
                    The maple strews the embers of its leaves 71
                    The midnight is not more bewildering 52
                    The morning sun seemed fair as though 346
                    The mother of the little boy that sleeps 262
                    The old daysthe far days 433
                    The old farm-home is Mother's yet and mine 58
                    The old sea-captain has sailed the seas 200
                    The orchard lands of Long Ago! 155
                    The rain! the rain! the rain! 83
                    The ripest peach is highest on the tree 24
                    The Romancer's a nightingale 520
                    The saddest silence falls when Laughter lays 378
                    The shrilling locust slowly sheathes 132
                    The skies have grown troubled and dreary 408
                    The Soldier!meek the title, yet divine 393
                    The stars are failing, and the sky 232
                    The tickingtickingticking of the clock! 25
                    The touches of her hands are like the fall 72
                    The Whitheraways!That's what I'll have to call 154
                    The winds have talked with him confidingly 206
                    There are many things that boys may know 468
                    There is a princess in the South 76
                    There is ever a song somewhere, my dear 55
                    There! little girl; don't cry! 4
                    There was a cherry-tree. Its bloomy snows 498
                    There's a space for good to bloom in 298
                    There's a Voice across the Nation like a mighty ocean-hail 316
                    
                    They faced each other: Topaz-brown 184
                    They meet to say farewell: Their way 199
                    They rode right out of the morning sun 50
                    They walk here with us, hand-in-hand 287
                    This is the way the baby slept 117
                    This Pan is but an idle god, I guess 60
                    This woman, with the dear child-heart 274
                    Thou dread, uncanny thing 90
                    Thou drowsy god, whose blurred eyes, half awink 32
                    Thou, of all God's gifts the best 332
                    Though now forever still 420
                    Thousands of thousands of hushed years ago 28
                    Through every happy line I sing 114
                    Thy rapt song makes of Earth a realm of light 258
                    Time is so long when a man is dead! 49
                    Time of crisp and tawny leaves 136
                    Tinkle on, O sweet guitar 235
                    'Tis Art reclaims him! By those gifts of hers 412
                    To hear her singto hear her sing 178
                    Tom Van Arden, my old friend 186
                    Tranced in the glamour of a dream 314
                    True-hearted friend of all true friendliness! 301
                    Turn through his life, each word and deed 391
                    Turn your face this way 460
                    'Twas a curious dream, good sooth! 143
                    'Twas a Funny Little Fellow 96
                    'Twas a marvelous vision of Summer 440
                    'Twas a summer ago when he left me here 356
                    'Twas the height of the fte when we quitted the riot 87
                    Up from, and out of, and the opulent woods the plains 528
                    
                    Voice of Mankind, sing over land and sea 295
                    Wait for the morning:It will come, indeed 62
                    Wasn't it pleasant, O brother mine 6
                    We are not always glad when we smile 507
                    We may idealize the chief of men 424
                    We must believe 412
                    We must get home! How could we stray like this? 416
                    Welladay! 80
                    What delightful hosts are they 430
                    What intuition named thee?Through what thrill 229
                    What mystery is it? The morning as rare 414
                    What shall we say? In quietude 294
                    What shall we say of the soldier, Grant 28
                    What title best befits the man 421
                    What were our Forefathers trying to find 404
                    What would best please our friend, in token of 306
                    When Age comes on! 197
                    When Bessie died 47
                    When but a little boy, it seemed 290
                    When chirping crickets fainter cry 190
                    When country roads begin to thaw 122
                    When I do mock the blackness of the night 273
                    When I was a little boy, long ago 457
                    When June is herewhat art have we to sing 11
                    When my dreams comes trueWhen my dreams comes true 89
                    When over the fair fame of friend or foe 292
                    When rainy-greener shoots the grass 419
                    When she comes home again! A thousand ways 482
                    Where are theythe Afterwhiles 26
                    Where are they?--the friends of my childhood enchanted 105
                    
                    Where do you go when you go to sleep 280
                    "Where is little Marjorie?" 459
                    While skies glint bright with bluest light 127
                    While the heart beats young!O the splendor of the Spring 500
                    While with Ambition's hectic flame 243
                    Whilst little Paul, convalescing was staying 476
                    Who am I but the Frogthe Frog! 275
                    Who bides his time, and day by day 53
                    Who cantereth forth in the night so late 490
                    Who has not wanted does not guess 387
                    Who shall sing a simple ditty all about the Willow 516
                    Wilful we are, in our infirmity 306
                    Wind of the Sea, come fill my sail 474
                    Winter without 101
                    With a hey! and a hi! and a hey-ho rhyme! 472
                    With gentlest tears, no less than jubilee 326
                    Within the cosiest corner of my dreams 489
                    Would that my lips might pour out in thy praise 226
                    Would that the winds might only blow 42
                    Writ in between the lines of his life-deed 165
                    Ye stars in ye skies seem twinkling 325
                    Yea, we go down to sea in ships 338
                    Years did I vainly seek the good Lord's grace 53
                    You may not remember whether 435
                    You sang the song of rare delight 531
                    You think it is a sorry thing 171
                    You think them "out of reach," your dead? 427
                    Your violin! Ah me! 463
                
            
        
    
