
     ----CITATION---- 
        Nicholson, Meredith, 1866-1947. Lady Larkspur: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2363
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                LADY LARKSPUR
                
            
            
            
                
                    LADY LARKSPUR
                
                BY MEREDITH NICHOLSON
                
                    NEW YORK
                    CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS
                    1919
                
            
            
            
            	VERSO
                COPYRIGHT, 1919, BY
                     CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS
                Published March, 1919 COPYRIGHT, 1918. BY P. F. COLLIER
                    & SONS, INC.
            
            
            
            	DEDICATION
                TO BENNETT AND PEGGY GATES
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    CHAPTER PAGE
                    I. THE "TROOPS" 1
                        
                    II. THE AMAZING WINDOW 38
                        
                    III. A FAN 79
                        
                    IV. PURSUING KNIGHTS 112
                        
                    V. ALICE 138
                        
                
            
        
        
            
            
            	LADY LARKSPUR
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    THE "TROOPS"
                    "IT was hard luck," said Searles, "that I should
                        spend a year writing a play for a woman only to find that she had
                        vanishedjumped off the earth into nowhere. This was my highest flight,
                        Singleton, the best writing I ever did, and after the vast pains I took with
                        the thing, the only woman I ever saw who could possibly act it is
                        unavailable; worse than that, absolutely undiscoverable! No-body knows I
                        have this script; I've kept quiet about it simply because
                        I'm not going to be forced into accepting a star I don't
                        want. I have a feeling about this play that I never had about my other
                        things. That girl was its inspiration. The public has been so kind to my
                        small offerings that I'm trying to lead 'em on to the best
                        I can do; something a little finer and more imaginative, with a touch of
                        poetry, if you please. And now"
                    
                    He rose from his broad work-table (he scorned the familiar type of desk) and
                        glared at me as though I were responsible for his troubles. As he knew I had
                        been flying in the French Aviation Corps for two years and had just been
                        invalided home, I didn't think it necessary to establish an alibi.
                        But I hastened to express my sympathy for his predicament. Fate had been
                        kind to Dick Searles. In college he had written a play or two that
                        demonstrated his talent, and after a rigid apprenticeship as scene-shifter
                        and assistant producer he had made a killing with "Let George Do
                        It," a farce that earned enough to put him at ease and make
                        possible an upward step into straight comedy. Even as we talked a capacity
                        house was laughing at his skit, "Who Killed Cock Robin?"
                        just around the corner from his lodgings. So his story was not the invention
                        of a rejected playwright to cover the non-appearance of a play which no-body
                        would produce.
                    "Isn't it always a mistake to write a play for a particular
                        star?" I suggested. "Seems to me I've read
                        somewhere that that is among the besetting sins of you
                        playwrights."
                    
                    "Old stuff, my boy; but this isn't one of those cases. The
                        person I had in mind for this play wasn't a star, but a beginner,
                        quite unknown. It was when I was in London putting on 'Fairy
                        Gold' that I saw her; she had a small part in a pantomime, and
                        pantomime is the severest test of an actor's powers, you know. A
                        little later she appeared in 'Honourable Women,' a capital
                        play that died early, but there again I felt her peculiar charmit was just
                        that. Her part was a minor one, but she wore it as she might wear a glove;
                        she was exquisite! No one ever captured my imagination as she did. I watched
                        her night after night. I was afraid that when I heard her voice it would
                        break the spell, and I actually shook like a man with an ague when she
                        tripped out on the stage as the ingnue in 'Honourable
                        Women.' And her laughter! You know how hollow the usual stage mirth
                        is, but that girl's laugh had the joy of the lark
                        ascending!"
                    "By Jove!" I ejaculated, "there's more
                        here than appears. You're in love with the girl!"
                    "Rubbish," he cried impatiently. "You'll
                             think I'm talking rot, but this
                        girl was the visualization of a character I had dreamed of and groped after
                        for years. That's all; but it's a whole lot, I can tell
                        you!"
                    "Of course, you established lines of communication and gave her a
                        hint that you meant to write a play for her?"
                    "Certainly not! That would have spoiled the whole thing. It was her
                        art, not the woman, that interested me. I didn't want to take the
                        chance of being disillusioned. I have been through that experience, and I
                        prefer not to meet the people who act in my pieces. I want their art, not
                        their views on human destiny or the best place to get lobster la
                        Newburg."
                    "Let us be practical for a moment, Searles," I urged.
                        "Emperors, presidents, and popular murderers are not more
                        conspicuous than the people of the stage. No girl talented enough to get two
                        engagements, even for small parts, in a first-class London theatre could
                        vanish. With your acquaintance in the profession you'd be able to
                        trace her anywhere on earth. By the way what did the paragon call
                        herself?"
                    
                    "Violet Dewing was her stage name and the only name the managers
                        knew her by. I assumed that, of course, all I had to do was to finish my
                        play and then have Dalton, who represents me over there, make an appointment
                        to read it to her; but Dalton worked for three months trying to find her,
                        without success. She clearly wasn't the product of the provincial
                        theatreshadn't any of the marks. I wasn't the only person
                        who was interested in her. Dalton said half a dozen managers had their eye
                        on her, but after 'Honourable Women' closed she stepped
                        into the void. I know what you're thinkingthat the other members of
                        the two companies she appeared with must have had some inkling of her
                        identity, but I tell you Dalton and I exhausted the possibilities. It was by
                        accident that she got her chance in the pantomimesome one wouldn't
                        do at the last minute, and they gave Miss Dewing a trial. She was well liked
                        by her associates in spite of the fact that she was a bit offish and
                        vanished from their world the minute the curtain fell."
                    "A clever governess out of a job, satisfying a craving for
                        excitement and playing the mysterious  rle as
                        part of the adventure. Am I to assume that you've burned your play
                        and that the incident is closed?"
                    "Oh, I didn't burn it; I have a copy locked in a safety
                        vault, and Dalton left one heavily sealed at a small exclusive London hotel
                        where, he found after much difficulty, the girl had lodged during her two
                        engagements."
                    "You're morbid," I said. "Show me her
                        photograph."
                    He laughed ironically. "Never a chance, Singleton! You
                        haven't yet got the idea that this young woman is out of the
                        ordinary. She refused to be photographedwrote it into her two contracts that
                        this was not to be asked. I never saw her off the stage, and I
                        can't give you a description of her that would be of the slightest
                        assistance to the keenest detective alive. As I've tried to convey
                        to your practical mind, it's the spirit of the girlthe spirit of
                        comedy, that I've dramatizednot a girl you take out to supper only
                        to find that she has no wit, no charm, no anything but a monstrous appetite
                        for indigestible food and a silly ambition to play rles the gods never
                        intended her to play. In that pantomime  she was
                        a frolic, the clown's daughter, and, though nobody saw it, she was
                        the whole piece, the elusive sprite that could evoke laughter and tears by a
                        gesture, a lifting of the brows, a grimace. By utterly different methods in
                        'Honourable Women' she proved her wide range of appeal.
                        The chap who produced 'Honourable Women' told me that
                        after the first rehearsal Bayley, the author, begged him for God's
                        sake to let the girl do it her own way, so as not to lose her freshness and
                        spontaneity. Hers was the one true characterization in the piece. When Terry
                        was in her prime you remember how we used to say that only one bird sang
                        like that, and from paradise it flew? Well, this bird sings on the same
                        branch! Her voice was her charm made audible! She's the most
                        natural being I ever saw on the stage, and she can look
                        more comedy than anybody else I ever saw act!"
                    "Rave some more!" I pleaded. "You never talked
                        better in your life."
                    "Don't be an ass," he said sourly.
                        "Let's forget her and take a squint at your affairs. Just
                        what do you mean to do with yourself?"
                    
                    "My shoulder still creaks a little, and the doctors advise me to sit
                        around for a while. They offered me some jobs in Washington, but desk work
                        and inspection duty are too tame after a couple of years spent in star
                        climbing. The doctors tell me to cultivate repose for a few months and maybe
                        they'll pass me into our flying corps, but they don't
                        promise anything. I'm going up to Barton-on-the-Sound and
                        I'll camp in the garage on my uncle's place. You remember
                        that I built the thing myself, and the quarters are good enough for a busted
                        veteran."
                    "Your uncle played you a nasty trick," interrupted Searles;
                        "getting married and then adding to the crime by dying. You
                        couldn't beat that for general spitefulness."
                    "Do you remember the immortal lines:
                    
                        "'Oh, skip your dear uncle!'
                        The Bellman exclaimed
                        As he angrily tingled his bell"?
                    
                    "Oh, I'm not knocking the dead!" he protested.
                        "Mr. Bashford always struck me as a pretty decent, square sort of
                        chap, and not at all the familiar grouchy uncle of fiction and  the drama. I made notes on him from time to
                        time with a view to building a play around himthe perfect uncle,
                        unobtrusive, never blustering at his nephew; translating the avuncular
                        relationship into something remote and chaste like a distant view of Mount
                        Washington in winter. As I recall, there were only two great passions in
                        your uncle's lifeJapanese art and green-turtle soup. It was just
                        like him to retire from business on his sixtieth birthday and depart for the
                        Orient, there to commit the shameless indiscretion of matrimony."
                    "Like him! It was the greatest shock of my life. To the best of my
                        knowledge he never knew any women except the widow of his partner in the
                        importing house. He used to dine with her now and then, and I caught him
                        once sending her flowers at Easterprobably an annual stunt. She was about
                        eighty and perfectly safe. He spent twenty years in the Tyringham, the
                        dullest and most respectable hotel in the world, and his chief recreation
                        was a leisurely walk in the park before going to bed. You could set your
                        clock by him. Pretty thin picking for a dramatist, I  should think. He used to take me to the theatre regularly every
                        other Thursdayit was a dateand his favorite entertainment was vaudeville
                        with black-face embellishment preferred. You should add that to Japanese
                        pottery and potage la tortue. He joined the yacht club just because the
                        green turtle at that joint is the best in New York. Yachts! He never sailed
                        in anything but the biggest steamers, and got no fun out of that. I crossed
                        with him twice, and he never left his bunk. But in his shy fashion he was
                        kind and generous and mighty good to me."
                    "If you hadn't gone to war, but had kept right at his
                        elbow, the marriage might have been averted," suggested Searles.
                        "He did leave you something, didn't he?"
                    "Fifty thousand cash and the right to use the garage at the Barton
                        farm. Calling it a farm is a joke; it's rocks mostly. He bought the
                        house to have a place to store his prints and ceramics. He hated motoring
                        except in taxis up and down town, and when I urged him to set up a machine,
                        he told me to go ahead and buy one and build the garage. He rather sniffed
                        at the writing I do, but told me  I'd
                        better fix up a studio in the garage and have it as a place to work in. His
                        will provides that I may lodge in the garage for life."
                    "The estate footed a million, as I remember, so I can't
                        praise his generosity. But the widow, your unknown auntie, the body-snatcher
                        who annexed the old boywhat of her?"
                    "I've asked the trust company people whether she's
                        in sight anywhere, and they assure me that she is not on these shores.
                        Torrence, the third vice-presidentyou know Torry; he was in the class ahead
                        of us at college, the man who never smilesTorry seemed anxious to learn
                        about her from me, which is certainly droll. He said she acknowledged her
                        last remittance three months ago from Bangkokwherever that is. Torry
                        couldn't see that Bangkok is so absurdly remote that the idea of a
                        widow's strolling off there is funny. I suppose the old
                        girl's resumed her tour of the world looking for another retired
                        merchant to add to her list."
                    "Very likely. To what nation, tribe, or human group does this
                        predatory person belong?"
                    
                    "I'll tell you all I know. Just as I was sailing for France
                        I got a letter from Uncle Bash stating in the most businesslike fashion that
                        he was about to be married to a lady he had met on his trip out to Japan.
                        The dire event was to occur at the American Embassy the following day. From
                        which I judged that my presence at the ceremony was neither expected nor
                        desired. Oddly enough, months afterward, I picked up an English paper in a
                        French inn that contained an announcement of the marriage in the usual
                        advertisement form. The lady was succinctly described as Mrs. Alice
                        Wellington Cornford, widow of the late Archibald Reynolds Cornford,
                        Pepperharrow Road, Hants. All Torrence knows of the subsequent proceedings
                        is what he got in official reports of Uncle Bash's death from the
                        consul-general at Tokyo. He was buried over there and the life-insurance
                        companies were rather fussy about the legal proof, Torry says. Whether the
                        widow expects to come to America ultimately or will keep moving through the
                        Orient marrying husbands and burying them is a dark mystery. If she should
                        turn up, the house at Barton is hers  of
                        course, but with her roving disposition I fancy my aunt Alice
                        wouldn't like the place. The Jap stuff is worth a bit of money, and
                        if the lady is keen for such things and not a mere adventuress she may take
                        it into her head one of these days to come over and inspect the
                        loot."
                    "I can see the vampire," said Searles musingly?
                        "landing at the Grand Central with enough hand-luggage to fill a
                        freight-car; a big, raw-boned creature, with a horse face and a horrible
                        mess as to clothes. You will be there to meet her, deferential, anxious to
                        please. You will pilot her up the coast to Barton, tip the servants heavily
                        to keep them from murdering her, and twiddle your thumbs in your garage as
                        you await her further pleasure. By the way, are those ancient freaks still
                        on the placethose broken-down hotel employees who were your uncle's
                        sole experiment in philanthropy?"
                    "Torrence assures me that they are all very much there."
                    Searles yielded himself to laughter. "An Englishwoman with lofty
                        ideas of domestic service would certainly enjoy a romp with  that crew. I supposed the trust company had
                        brushed them into the Sound before this."
                    "Oh, they are in the same class with me," I explained.
                        "The place can't be sold till I die, and while I live
                        they're to be harboredabout thirty of themclothed and
                        victualled."
                    "I think there's a farce in the idea, and I may try it one
                        of these days," he said, scribbling in his note-book. "A
                        refuge for brokendown chambermaids, venerable bell-hops grown gray in the
                        service, and the head waiter who amassed a fortune in tips and then toyed
                        with the market once too often and lost his ill-gotten gains. What was the
                        head waiter's name who presided with so much stateliness in the
                        dining-room of the Tyringham? I mean the white-haired chap who was so
                        particular about the foot-cushions for the nice old ladies in caps and
                        lavender ribbons and India shawlsI think I can work him in
                        somewhere."
                    "That's Antoine, who married the assistant housekeeper at
                        the Tyringham. He's the butler and has charge of the placea sort of
                        commander-in-chief of the outfit. When I get settled I'll ask you
                        up and you can study the bunch at leisure."
                    
                    "Splendid! Reserve one room for me on the sunny side of the garage
                        and I'll be up in a couple of weeks. I'm going to Ohio
                        tomorrow for a family reunion and a look at the loved spots my infancy
                        knew."
                    "You're lucky to have home-folks even in Ohio," I
                        remarked enviously.
                    "Well, there's always your distant auntie, cruising the
                        seven seas in pursuit of husbands. Nobody with an aunt to his credit can
                        pretend to be alone in the world. There is something about
                        an aunt, Singleton! Aunts must rank just a little below mothers in the
                        heavenly kingdom. When I was a boy out in Ohio there were two great
                        occasions every year in my lifeone when I went to visit a grand old aunt I
                        had in the country, the other when she visited us, arriving with a wagonload
                        of jam, jelly, salt-rising bread, poundcake, and other unpurchasable
                        manna."
                    "Stop! or I'll call the food censor," I pleaded,
                        picking up my hat. "Send me your copy of 'Lady
                        Geranium,' and I'll tell you whether it's a
                        classic or not."
                    "'Lady Larkspur,'" he corrected with a
                        shudder. "You shall have it by trusted messenger
                        to-morrow."
                    
                    I wired Antoine that I would reach Barton-on-the-Sound the following day.
                        This was September, 1917. The former servants of the Tyringham were
                        established on the place by my uncle the year before he dropped business
                        cares and departed for the Japan of his dreams, and as I had been often at
                        the hotel where he spent so many of the years of his life, I knew most of
                        the old retainers. They were deeply appreciative of his kindness, and when I
                        had gone to the farm for an uninterrupted month in finishing some piece of
                        writing they had shown me the greatest consideration.
                    As the train rolled along the familiar shore toward Barton I shook off the
                        depression occasioned by my enforced retirement from the great struggle
                        overseas. I had done under the French flag all that it was possible for me
                        to do; and there was some consolation in the fact that by reason of my two
                        years on the battle-line I was just so much ahead of the friends I met in
                        New York who were answering the call to the colors and had their experience
                        of war all before them. The tranquil life that had been recommended by the
                        doctors was not only possible at Barton, but it was  the only life that could be lived there. Plenty of exercise in
                        the open and regular habits would, I had been assured, set me up again, and
                        my leisure I meant to employ in beginning a novel that had been teasing me
                        ever since I sailed for home.
                    Of my uncle Bash I had only the happiest and most grateful memories. Quite
                        naturally it had occurred to me at times, and my friends had encouraged the
                        idea, that my uncle would die some day and leave me his money. There was no
                        particular reason why he should do so, as he had never manifested any
                        unusual affection for me and I had certainly never done anything for him.
                    Antoine was at the Barton station with the touring-car Uncle Bash had bought
                        to establish communication with the village. Flynn, the big Irishman who had
                        been the doorman at the Tyringham for years and retired because of
                        rheumatism acquired from long exposure to the elements at the
                        hostelry's portals, was at the wheel.
                    Antoine greeted me with that air of lofty condescension tempered with a
                        sincere kindliness that had made him a prince among head  waiters. As I shook hands with him his lips
                        quivered and tears came to his eyes. Flynn, standing beside the car, saluted
                        with a welcoming grin.
                    "Very glad to see you, sorr. The trunk came this mornin'
                        all right, sorr, and we put it in your room."
                    I bade Antoine join me in the back seat that he might the more easily bring
                        me up to date as to affairs on the estate.
                    "It must be a little slow up here after the years you lived in
                        town," I suggested, "but of course you're all old
                        friends."
                    "Well, yes; ill friends," he acquiesced, but with so little
                        enthusiasm that I glanced at him quickly. He pretended to be absorbed in the
                        flying landscape at the moment. Flynn, I noticed, was giving ear to our
                        conversation from the wheel.
                    "It was sad, very sad, Mr. Bashford passing away so far from home,
                        sir. It was a great shock. And he had looked forward for years to a quiet
                        life abroad. It must have been ten years ago he first mentioned his hope of
                        retiring to Japan."
                    Uncle Bash had given me no such forecast  of his
                        intentions, and I felt humble before this proof of Antoine's
                        greater intimacy. Once at the beginning of our acquaintance, when I had
                        complimented Antoine on his English, he explained that he was born in
                        England of French parents. His father had been chef and his mother
                        housekeeper for an American banker who lived for many years in London.
                        Antoine's speech was that of a well-trained English upper servant,
                        and I imagined that in his youth he had taken some English butler as his
                        model. He used to pretend that he knew French very imperfectly, and I was
                        surprised when he now addressed me quite fluently in that language.
                    "You have been with the armies of dear France," he
                        remarked. "The war is very dreadful. My parents were of Verdun; it
                        grieves me to know of the suffering in the land of my people."
                    As I replied sympathetically in French I saw Flynn straighten himself at the
                        wheel with an impatient fling of his head. Antoine indicated him with a
                        contemptuous nod: "Married Elsie, the German woman who worked in
                        the linen-room at the Tyringham!  This has
                        caused some trouble, and there is a pantry girl, Gretchen, who was ill a
                        long time before the master left, and he sent her here for the country air.
                        She is a little devil with her dear Fatherland."
                    I laughed at the old fellow's gravity and earnestness. That the war
                        should be making itself felt on the quiet acres at Barton-on-the-Sound was
                        absurd.
                    "But there can be no trouble; everything is peaceful, of course,
                        save for a little foolish talk"
                    The Gaul asserted itself in a shrug, a form of expression rare in him. I was
                        pondering the recrudescence of race hatreds due to the upheaval in Europe
                        when he startled me by a statement uttered close to my ear:
                    "There have been inquiries for the widow; these have caused me much
                        anxiety."
                    "Widow! Whose widow?"
                    "Madame, the widow of the dear master. It seems that there are
                        persons anxious to see her. There have been inquiries, onetwothree
                        times."
                    "Probably some of her American friends 
                        anxious to pay their respects, or some of the neighbors making calls of
                        courtesy," I suggested.
                    "A foreign gentleman who acts very queerly," Antoine
                        persisted.
                    My uncle's widow was a vague, unknown being whom I had never
                        expected to cross my horizons. If she meditated a descent upon
                        Barton-on-the-Sound, the trust company would certainly have had some hint of
                        her approach, but Torrence clearly had had no tidings of her beyond her last
                        communication from Bangkok. Still, it was wholly possible that a
                        globe-trotting widow would have friends in many parts of the world, and I
                        could see nothing disturbing in the fact that inquiries had been made for
                        her. I said as much. Antoine's answer was another shrug and a jerk
                        of his head toward Flynn, as though even the employment of an alien tongue
                        might not conceal our conversation from the big Irishman. Antoine was
                        manifestly impatient at my refusal to be aroused by his hints of discord
                        among his associates and my lack of interest in the inquiries for Mrs.
                        Bashford. When we had reached the farm and 
                        were running through the grounds Antoine spoke again:
                    "We thought we would put you up at the house, Mr. Singleton, and not
                        in the garage," he said inquiringly.
                    "Not at all, Antoine," I answered quickly. "We
                        must stick close to the law in such matters."
                    "Very good, sir. Stop at the garage, Flynn."
                    To the casual observer the garage was a charming two-story house following
                        the general lines of the plaster and timber residence, from which it was
                        separated by a strip of woodland and a formal garden. The garage and
                        quarters for the chauffeur were at one end and at the other were a
                        down-stairs living-room, with a broad fireplace, and three chambers above so
                        planned as to afford a charming view of the Sound, whose shore curved in
                        deeply at this point. On the chauffeur's side was a small kitchen
                        from which I had been served with my meals when I lodged there. This
                        thoroughly convenient establishment was the only place I could call home,
                        and I experienced a pleasurable sense of comfort  as I opened the door into the snug living-room.
                    "The house is in order. You will have your meals at the residence, I
                        suppose, sir," Antoine suggested.
                    I debated this a moment, and when he hinted that dinner could be more
                        conveniently served there than in my own quarters, I said that for the
                        present the Flynns might give me breakfast and luncheon at the garage, but
                        that I would dine at the house. The original owner of the property, from
                        whose executor my uncle had purchased it with all its belongings, had
                        accumulated a remarkable library, rich in the Elizabethan stuff for which I
                        have a weakness, and it occurred to me that it would be pleasant to eat my
                        solitary dinner at the residence and loaf in the library for an hour
                        afterward. Like most slaves of the inkpot, I habitually postpone actual
                        labor as long as possible, and if I were to dine at the garage I should have
                        no excuse for not plunging at once into my novel. The Tyringham people were
                        domiciled in cottages scattered over the estate, though a full staff of
                        house servants was established in the residence.
                    
                    It was five o'clock when I reached the garage, and Antoine left me
                        after opening my bags with the suggestion that I could summon Zimmerman, a
                        former valet of the Tyringham, for any service I might require. I knew
                        Zimmerman very well and said I would call him when occasion required.
                    "He is of that race," said Antoine plaintively in the
                        French which now seemed to come readily enough to his lips.
                    "Race? Botheration! You mustn't trouble yourself about race
                        questions out here, Antoine. Zimmerman is a good old chap, who's
                        probably forgotten the very name of the German town he was born
                        in."
                    "They do not forget," Antoine replied with emphasis.
                        "There has been much discussionmuch"
                    "Forget it, Antoine! I supposed you were all living here like a
                        happy family. You've been sticking too close to the farm, and it
                        would do you good to run into town for a week. Please tell them at the
                        residence that I'll dine at seven."
                    "Very good, sir," he said in his pompous Tyringham manner,
                        but I saw that he was miffed by my indifference.
                    
                    Flynn, having disposed of the car, came to ask if there was anything he could
                        do for me. When I had explained my arrangement with Antoine he still
                        lingered.
                    "Tony's against the wife and me," he said
                        mournfully. "It's the war, sorr, and she and me that lile,
                        sorr, the American flag floats from the garage every day. And if a heart can
                        be lile, Elsie's as true to America as though she was born in
                        Boston State-house."
                    "I believe you, Flynn," I said, touched by his earnestness.
                        "Don't you worry about Antoine and the rest of them;
                        they're just a little nervous; I'll see what I can do to
                        straighten things out."
                    As I went about my unpacking I was sorry that I had discouraged
                        Antoine's confidences. That these old hotel servants, flung upon a
                        farm with little to do, should fall to quarrelling was not surprising, but
                        what he had said as to the inquiries for Mrs. Bashford had roused my
                        curiosity. In spite of my legal right to live on the farm, I had no
                        intention of remaining if my uncle's widow turned up. Alone on the
                        estate I could lodge in the garage without any loss of dignity, but with an
                        aunt on the premises my status would be decidedly uncomfortable.  She could hardly fail to regard me as an
                        intruding poor relation, no matter how strictly I kept to my own quarters.
                        It was possible that she might even confuse me with the veterans of the
                        Tyringham, and, while I am no snob, I did not relish the idea of being
                        classed by a strange aunt with a crowd of broken-down hotel employees.
                    I whistled myself into good humor as I dressed and started for the house
                        along the driveway, which followed the shore, veering off for a look at the
                        sunken garden, one of the few features of the place that had ever interested
                        my uncle.
                    As I paused on the steps I caught sight of a man sitting dejectedly on a
                        stone bench near a fountain whose jet tossed and caught a ball with languid
                        iteration. I had identified him as an old Tyringham bell-hop, known
                        familiarly as Dutch, before he heard my step and sprang to his feet,
                        grabbing a pitchfork whose prongs he presented threateningly.
                    "Oh, it's you, sir," he faltered, dropping the
                        implement. "Excuse me, sir!"
                    "What's your trouble, Dutch? You're not expecting
                        burglars, are you?"
                    
                    "Well, no, sir, but things on the place ain't what they
                        wuz. It's my name, which ain't my name, not
                        reg'lar, that's caused feel-in'. They've
                        drove me out, an' I'm campin' in the tool-house.
                        An' me born right there in New York an' American clean
                        through. My grandpap came across when he wuz a kid, but it ain't my
                        fault he wuz Goiman, I'd 'a' made 'im a
                        Frenchy or a Dago or somethin' else if I could
                        'a' done it. Mr. Singleton, I don't know no
                        Goiman except pretzel, sauerkraut, wiener wurst, and them kind o'
                        woids."
                    "Those belong to the universal language, Dutch," I answered
                        consolingly. "What is your name, anyhow?"
                    "Augustus Schortemeier, and I say it ain't no
                        worse'n Longfellow," he protested.
                    The point was delicate and not one that I felt myself qualified to discuss.
                        To cover my confusion I suggested that poets enjoy a certain license, but I
                        was honestly sorry for Dutch. If he was not the oldest living bellhop, he
                        was at least entitled to honorable mention among the most ancient veterans
                        of the calling, vocation, or avocation of the bellhopper. I bade him cheer
                        up and passed on.
                    
                    As I reached the house I heard a sharp command in an authoritative voice and
                        saw at a curve of the driveway a number of men in military formation
                        performing evolutions in the most sprightly manner. They carried
                        broomsticks, and at sight of me the commander brought his company to a very
                        ragged "Present arms!" Their uniform was that of the
                        Tyringham bell-hops and waiters, and it dawned upon me that this was an army
                        of protest representing the Allied armies on the shores of Connecticut.
                        There was a dozen of them, and the captain I recognized as Scotty, a hop who
                        had long worn the Tyringham livery. I waved my hand to them and turned to
                        find Antoine awaiting me at the door.
                    "It's the troops, sir," he explained.
                        "It's to keep Dutch and Gretchen and Elsieshe's
                        the wife of that Flynnin proper order, sir."
                    "Troops" was a large term for the awkward squad of retired
                        waiters and bell-hops, and it was with difficulty that I kept my face
                        straight.
                    "It's most unfortunate, but we was forced to it. Dinner is
                        served, sir."
                    From the table in the long dining-room I  caught
                        glimpses through the gathering dusk of Scotty's battalion at its
                        evolutions.
                    "They keep a guard all night, sir," Antoine explained, not
                        without pride. "The goings on has been most peculiar."
                    "Antoine!" I said sharply, "what do you mean by
                        these hints of trouble on the place? You're not silly enough to
                        imagine that Dutch and a couple of women can do anything out here to aid
                        America's enemies! The rest of you ought to be ashamed of
                        yourselves for annoying them. And as for these inquiries about Mrs.
                        Bashford, they couldn't possibly have anything to do with the war.
                        Specifically, who are the persons who've asked for her?"
                    "There's the party I told you about, most persistent,
                        who's motored here three times, and another person who seems to be
                        looking for him, sir. It's most
                        singular."
                    "It's singularly ridiculous; that's all.
                        They're probably piano-tuners or rival agents for a rug house or
                        something of that sort who don't know that Mrs. Bashford
                        isn't here or at all likely to be."
                    "They may be agents, but not that kind,  sir." His lips quivered, either from fear or vexation at my
                        refusal to take his story seriously.
                    "If anything tangible happens, Antoine," I said kindly,
                        "anything we can really put our hands on, we'll certainly
                        deal with it. But you mustn't get nervous or allow yourself to
                        suspect everybody who turns up here of evil designs against the Republic.
                        I've come here for quiet, you know, and we can't have
                        every passing stranger throwing the place into a panic."
                    I had no sooner reached the library, where he gave me coffee, than I heard a
                        slow, measured tread on the broad brick terrace that ran along the house on
                        the side toward the Sound. The windows were open and the guard was in plain
                        view. I glanced at Antoine, whose attitude toward me was that of one
                        benevolently tolerant of stupidity. He meant to save me in spite of my
                        obtuseness. "Tell the picket to remove himself where I
                        won't he him, if you please, Antoine."
                    He disappeared through one of the French windows and in a moment I saw the
                        guard patrolling a walk some distance from the 
                        house. I now made myself comfortable with a book and a cigar, but I had
                        hardly settled myself for a quiet hour before I heard a commotion from the
                        direction of the gate, followed a few minutes later by a shout and a noisy
                        colloquy, after which a roadster arrived in haste at the front door.
                    "Mr. Torrence, sir," announced Antoine.
                        "I'm sorry, sir, but he ran by the guard at the gate, and
                        our man below the house stopped him. It's a precaution
                        we've been taking, sir."
                    Torrence's sense of humor was always a little feeble, and I hastened
                        into the hall to reassure him as to his welcome. He was wiping the
                        perspiration from his face and swearing under his breath.
                    "For God's sake, Singleton, what's happened here?
                        A band of pirates jumped on my running-board, and after I'd knocked
                        them off a road-agent stopped me right there in sight of the house and poked
                        the muzzle of a shotgun in my face."
                    "Mighty sorry you were annoyed, but there have been some queer
                        characters about, tramps and that sort of thing, and the people  on the place are merely a little anxious. Have
                        a cigar?"
                    "All I can say is that you'd better send your friends the
                        password! That fool out there with the gun"
                    "Only a bell-hop, nothing more," I interrupted.
                    "That fool, I say, is likely to kill somebody. Antoine"he
                        turned to the butler, who was drawing the curtains at the windows
                        "if the property's been threatened, you should have
                        informed me immediately."
                    "Yes, sir; but it's only been quite recent, and, knowing
                        Mr. Singleton was coming, we didn't like to bother you."
                    "We can only apologize, Torry," I interposed. "The
                        employees have been alarmed, but we're bound to commend their
                        zeal."
                    "Humph!" he ejaculated, the wounds to his dignity still
                        rankling.
                    I forced a cigar upon him and talked of the weather to cover
                        Antoine's retreat. I resolved not to tell him the real cause of the
                        servant's apprehensions, knowing his disposition to magnify trifles
                        and fearing he might send the police to investigate. He lived only  five miles from Barton, a fact to which he now
                        referred.
                    "Hadn't heard of any tramps over my way," he said,
                        frowning. "These old lunatics your uncle left here are simply
                        hipped; that's all. Mr. Bashford made a mistake in turning the
                        place over to them; it was silly, down right silly. It's a wonder
                        you didn't think of upsetting his will on the ground of mental
                        unsoundness. It's not up to me to suggest such a thing, but I
                        believe you could knock it out!"
                    "Oh, chuck it! They're well-meaning help less people, and
                        it's bully that Uncle Bash provided a home for them.
                        There's nobody else to use the place."
                    His cigar had proved soothing, but my last remark caused him to sit up
                        straight in his chair.
                    "By George! my hold-up almost made me forget what I came for. I have
                        news for you, Singleton; good or bad, as you may take it; Mrs. Bashford is
                        in America."
                    "Mrs. Bashford," I repeated faintly, "where do you
                        get these pleasant tidings?"
                    "This," he answered, producing a telegram,  "is all I know about it. Got it just
                        as I was leaving the office this afternoon, and thought I'd motor
                        over and give you a pleasant surprise."
                    He seemed to enjoy my discomfiture. The message read:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        "PITTSFIELD, MASS.,
                                            Sept. 20. "J. B. TORRENCE,"
                                            Bainbridge Trust Co., New York.
                                        
                                        Landed at Seattle a week ago, and have been motoring east
                                            from Chicago to see the country. Will reach Barton in
                                            four or five days. Please wire me at the Washington Inn,
                                            Lenox, whether house is in order for occupancy.
                                        
                                            "ALICE BASHFORD."
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                    
                    "Well, what do you say to that?" he demanded.
                    "I say it's taking unfair advantage," I answered
                        savagely. "I've got to clear out; that's the
                        first thing."
                    "Not necessarily. Your right to the garage is settled; she
                        couldn't oust you if she wanted to. You've got to stay
                        here anyhow till she  comes; there's
                        no ducking that. The widow of an uncle who did a lot for you, a stranger to
                        the country; it's up to you to see her established. There are many
                        little courtesies she would naturally expect from you."
                    "I'm delighted that you see my duty so clearly! If you
                        hadn't assured me that she was safe at the end of the world I
                        wouldn't have set foot here."
                    "The house is in order, I judge," he remarked, glancing
                        about the room. "I've got to wire her that we're
                        ready for her."
                    "You most certainly have! Your duty is as plain as a smoke-stack.
                        You might add that she's causing serious inconvenience to her late
                        husband's only nephew."
                    "You really don't mean that?" he inquired
                        anxiously.
                    "Oh, thunder, no!"
                    I had forgotten how trying Torrence could be. He now suggested that we summon
                        Antoine and take a look at the house. Torrence is a conscientious fellow
                        with an exact and orderly mind, and there was no corner of the place from
                        cellar to garret that we didn't explore. It was highly creditable
                        to the old  Tyringham servants that the house
                        was thoroughly habitable. All that need be done before Mrs. Bashford arrived
                        was to lay linen on the beds and take the jackets from the furniture; a
                        couple of hours would suffice, Antoine said.
                    As we were on our way down-stairs the old fellow detained me a moment.
                    "Have you told him about the parties? Pardon me, sir," he
                        whispered, "but him and the trust company is responsible. I thought
                        likely you'd tell him."
                    I shook my head in angry rejection of the idea that I should tell Torrence
                        about "the parties." and dismissed him as soon as we
                        reached the hall.
                    "I suggest," said Torrence, "that when she comes
                        you have flowers in all the rooms; the conservatory will supply enough. And
                        it occurs to me that the more inconspicuous you make this bunch of lazy
                        dependents the more agreeable it will be for Mrs. Bashford."
                    "You don't expect much of me! It was never in the contract
                        that I should become the patriarch of these venerable relics. But
                        I'll warn them to conceal themselves as much as  possible. I fully expect to leave the
                        reservation for good just one hour after the lady arrives."
                    "That's your affair, of course. As she's motoring,
                        we can't just time her arrival, but when I get a wire that
                        she's on the way I'll telephone you. And, of course, after
                        she gets here I'll come at once to pay my respects."
                    "You can't come too soon!" I answered
                    spitefully.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    THE AMAZING WIDOW
                    AS soon as Torrence left I returned to the garage, feeling that with Mrs.
                        Bashford on American soil my use of the residence even as a loafing-place
                        was unbecoming. Mrs. Bashford was not only in America, but with a motor at
                        her command she might reach Barton at any hour. And the vigorous, dominating
                        woman who had captured my uncle Bash, buried him in a far country, and then
                        effected a hop, skip, and jump from Bangkok to Seattle, was likely to be a
                        prodigal spender of gasoline. Her propensity for travelling encouraged the
                        hope that she would quickly weary of Barton and pine for lands where the
                        elephant and jinrickisha flourish.
                    I had brought with me the manuscript of Searles's play, and I fell
                        upon it irritably and began reading the first act. The dialogue moved
                        briskly, and I read on as though enfolded in the air of a crisp spring
                        morning.  It was Searles's whimsical
                        stroke, only with a better vehicle than he had ever before found for it. My
                        grouch over the upsetting of my plans yielded under the spell of his humor.
                    "Lady Larkspur" was the name assumed by the daughter of a
                        recluse naturalist in the valley of Virginia. She had known no life but that
                        of the open country, where she ran wild all summer, aiding her father in
                        collecting plants and butterflies. At twenty she had never seen a city, and
                        her social contacts had been limited to the country folk, who viewed her
                        with commiseration as the prisoner of her misanthrope father, who in the
                        fifteen years of his exile had maintained a hostile attitude toward his
                        neighbors. He had, however, educated the girl in such manner that only the
                        cheer and joy of life were known to her. Hating mankind, he had encouraged
                        her in nature-worship. She knew no literature except the classics; all
                        history, even the history of the storied valley in which she lived, was a
                        sealed book to her.
                    The girl's curiosity is roused by the sudden appearance of strangers
                        from the unknown world beyond, whom she mystifies by her  quaint old-worldishness. Searles had taken an
                        old theme and given a novel twist to it. The solution of the mystery of the
                        father's exile and an amusing complication of lovers afforded a
                        suspensive interest well sustained to the end. There were innumerable
                        charming scenes, as where the girl in the outlandish costume in which she
                        roamed the hills perches on a boulder and recites the
                        "Iliad" to her suitors. In the last act she appears at a
                        ball at a country house in sophisticated raiment, and the story ends in the
                        key of mirth in which it began.
                    It was a delightful blending and modernization of Diana, Atalanta,
                        Cinderella, and Rosalind; but even in the typewritten page it was amazingly
                        alive and well calculated to evoke tears and laughter. That a play so
                        enthralling should be buried in a safety-vault was not to be thought of, and
                        I sat down and wrote Searles a long letter demanding that he at once forget
                        the lost star for whom he had written the piece, suggesting the names of
                        several well-known actresses I thought worth considering for the difficult
                        leading role. Not satisfied with this, I telephoned a telegram to  the agent at Barton for transmission to
                        Searles at the Ohio address he had given me.
                    The next day passed without incident, and on the second, hearing nothing from
                        Torrence, I began to doubt Mrs. Bashford's proximity. On the third,
                        still hearing nothing, I harkened to an invitation from friends at New
                        London and drove over in the runabout for dinner. It was midnight when I got
                        back, and when I reached the gates several men dashed out of the lodge and
                        halted me.
                    "She's come, sir," announced Antoine, emerging
                        from the darkness, and speaking under stress of deep emotion;
                        "madame the widow has arrived, sir!"
                    "Why not Cleopatra or the Queen of Sheba?" I exclaimed
                        testily to cover my annoyance that my aunt had effected her descent in my
                        absence. "Well, she was expected; the house is hers; what do you
                        want me to do about it?" I ended with affected jocularity.
                    "We received her the best we could; but it was most unfortunate,
                        your not being here, sir."
                    "Is that your idea, Antoine, or do you reflect  the lady's sentiments? I'm properly
                        humiliated either way. Tell me just what she said."
                    "Well, sir, she just laughed when I took the liberty of
                        apologizing."
                    "The sneering laughter of outraged dignity! Go ahead and give me the
                        rest of it."
                    "It was at ten she came, sir, and the guard held her up, not
                        recognizing her, here at the gate, and when the car didn't stop the
                        boys chased her and fired at the tires of her machine. It was very dreadful,
                        sir. And at the houseat the door, sirthe guard was very harsh with her, sir,
                        most regrettable."
                    "You certainly made a mess of it!" I ejaculated.
                        "But you did let her ininto her own house, we must rememberyou did
                        grant her the courtesy of a lodging for the night?" I inquired
                        ironically.
                    "She's retired, sir. There was a lady with her; maybe a
                        maid; I can't exactly say; and we did everything, sir, to make her
                        comfortable. She was not what you might say fussy, sir, but quite
                        human-like. We was all relieved, sir, the way she took everything. I  hope you'll pardon us, sir, which was
                        due to not being warned."
                    Oh, it's all right with me, but in the morning she'll
                        probably bounce the whole lot of us. An old lady fatigued from a journey
                        cross country and shot at on her own premisesit's a very pretty
                        story."
                    They were a picturesque lot, the ancient waiters and bell-hops grouped about
                        Antoine with their lanterns and garden inplements and firearms. Antoine was
                        swallowing hard in his effort to continue his recital.
                    "You say an old lady, sir; the mistress is not really what you would
                        call so oldnot exactly, sir."
                    "Really a youngish party, I should say," volunteered
                        Graves, the gardener.
                    Just what these veterans would call old was a matter of conjecture.
                        "Um," I murmured, and considered the situation.
                    "Young or old, she would hardly relish her reception. There was a
                        maid, and they came in a machine? Did you put up the chauffeur or did you
                        shoot him on the spot?"
                    "It was a hired machine, sir; and madame sent it away. The driver
                        was a good deal upset  over the shooting. One
                        of the rear tires was quite blown away."
                    "You're in luck if he doesn't have you all
                        arrested to-morrow," I remarked consolingly.
                    "Mrs. Bashford seemed quite amused by the occurrence,"
                        Antoine continued. " 'Wonderful America!' she
                        kept saying after we'd got her inside. We gave her tea, which was
                        all she asked for. She takes her tea with cream, sir. We did our best to
                        make her comfortable. And there was a dog, sir. I recall that the master was
                        not fond of dogs. There was never one on the place."
                    Antoine spoke truly; if there was anything my Uncle Bash detested it was a
                        dog, but I reflected that a world-skipping widow who could corral so
                        difficult a subject as my uncle would be quite capable of inspiring him with
                        delight in the canine species. My respect for the woman's powers of
                        persuasion was intensified by this disclosure.
                    She had failed to wire Torrence as she promised or he had neglected to warn
                        me of her coming; either way it was a pretty kettle of fish, and I shuddered
                        at the thought of facing her wholly pardonable indignation.
                    
                    To make sure that nothing was required of me until morning, I drove past the
                        house with the army hanging to the footboard. The lower rooms were dark, but
                        lights twinkled through the second-story shutters. My aunt was established
                        on the premises, and her coming and the circumstances of her advent
                        constituted a good joke of which I and not she was the victim. When I
                        reached my quarters in the garage I sat down and laughed until Flynn
                        appeared, frightened by my noisy mirth that had penetrated to his quarters.
                        I got rid of him and smoked a pipe and began the packing I meant to finish
                        early in the morning.
                    I wakened early, rang a bell connecting my rooms with the
                        chauffeur's end of the garage as a warning to the Flynns to prepare
                        breakfast, and was dressed when the Irishman came in with the tray. In the
                        absence of a morning paper I clung to him for company.
                    "I trust you will not be leaving, sorr," he remarked,
                        eyeing my half-packed trunk.
                    "Very soon, Flynn."
                    "Then Elsie and I will be going too, sorr. It's most
                        uncomfortable they're making us  Dutch
                        and the rest. That Antoine and his army keep pesterin' us and
                        callin' us Huns."
                    "You raise a very interesting question, Flynn, a very delicate
                        question of fact and propriety. Satisfied as you and Elsie are of your
                        entire loyalty to the United States and the associated Powers, I think you
                        should remain, a martyr, if need be, to the great cause of world
                        democracy."
                    "It's most disagreeable we find it, the wife and
                        me," he said mournfully.
                    "Suffer and be strongthat's the watchword! We will hope
                        that Mrs. Bashford is a woman of sound sense and tact who will exert herself
                        to restore peace on her property. When I call to pay my respects and make my
                        adieus I shall speak to her of the situation and vouch for your loyalty. You
                        may count on me. You haven't, I suppose, seen the widow
                        yetshe's probably sleeping late."
                    "Quite the contrary, sorr. She's been up and around for an
                        hour an' more. She's been all over the place and stopped
                        for a squint at the garage, her and the pup."
                    "She's been here, inspecting the garage?" I asked,
                        glancing at my watch. It was not yet  eight
                        o'clock. The banter died out of me; clearly it had been my duty to
                        be on hand to pilot her over the estate, or at least to receive her at the
                        garage. "Just what was the lady's frame of mindas to
                        things generally. Peeved, was she, over the row last night?"
                    "Oh, no, sorr; quite cheerful an' friendly. She's
                        ordered a big car from New York and told me it would be coming up to-day and
                        to make a place for it."
                    Here was news indeed, destroying all my hopes that she meditated only a brief
                        sojourn. The purchase of a machine meant definitely that she would remain
                        for some time, perhaps for the winter. I poured a second cup of coffee,
                        swallowed it, grabbed my hat and stick, and asked enlightment as to the
                        course taken by Mrs. Bashford when she left the garage.
                    "She took the lower road, sorr, toward the Sound and stepped off
                        quite brisk-like."
                    It was the serenest of September mornings, and I hurried away, thinking the
                        cloudless blue arch, the twinkling sea, and the crisp air might serve to
                        soften my aunt's displeasure at her hostile reception. From the
                        conservatories  I caught a glimpse of a woman
                        on the beacha slender, agile woman throwing a ball for the amusement of a
                        fox-terrier. She threw the ball with a boy's free swing,
                        occasionally varying a hot one down the shore with a toss high in air which
                        she caught up herself before the terrier could reach it. The two were having
                        no end of a good time. She laughed joyfully when the ball fell into her
                        hands and the terrier barked his discomfiture and eagerness for a chance to
                        redeem himself.
                    Antoine's equivocal statement as to Mrs. Bashford's age was
                        ridiculous. Instead of the middle-aged woman whom I was prepared to meet,
                        here was beyond question a vigorous, healthy being whose every movement
                        spoke for youth and the joy of life. It might, after all, be the maid of
                        whom Antoine had spoken; I advanced slowly, anxious not to break in upon her
                        romp with the terrierthey made a charming pictureand trying to formulate an
                        introduction. I reached a low stone wall that separated the lawn from the
                        beach just as she effected a running pick-up of the ball. She turned swiftly
                        and flung it straight at my  head.
                        Involuntarily I put up my hand and caught it just as she saw me and cried
                        outa cry of warning and contrition. I tossed the ball to the dog.
                    "What must you think of me!" she exclaimed. "I was
                        blinded by the sunlight and I didn't see youreally I did
                        not!"
                    "I had no business being in the way," I laughed, noting
                        first her glowing color, her violet eyesamazingly fine eyes they wereher
                        fair hair with its golden glint, her plain black gown with lawn, collar and
                        wristbands. It was her age, however, that roused me to instant speculation.
                        Twenty-five, I decided, was a maximum; more likely she was not more than
                        twenty-two, and if I had been told that eighteen was the total of her years
                        I shouldn't have had the heart to dispute it.
                    "Bob Singleton," I said and stupidly added, "and
                        you are Mrs. Bashford?" unable for the life of me to avoid turning
                        the statement into an inquiry.
                    "I am your aunt Alice," she said with a smile, putting out
                        her hand. "Down, Rex!" she commanded the dancing terrier;
                        "lie down; school's over now"; whereupon Rex  obediently sprawled in the sand and began
                        trying to swallow the ball.
                    "Wasn't that silly of me to try to kill you the first time
                        we met!" Her eyes danced with merriment. "I
                        didn't know, of course, that any one was about. But you made a very
                        nice catch of it! I had expected to receive you most formally in the
                        drawing-room, but this really serves very well. That tree down yonder is
                        inviting; suppose we stay out here and talk a bit."
                    This struck me as the pleasantest thing imaginable, though I was still dazed
                        and my tongue seemed to have died in my mouth. This girl, this wholly
                        charming and delightful young woman, was the monstrous being I had
                        conjectured as the globe-trotting widow who had kidnapped and married my
                        uncle! Not only had she married my uncle Bash and in due course buried him;
                        she had been a widow when she married him! I furtively studied her facea
                        face that invited scrutiny and her candid eyes that met my gaze of wonder
                        and frank admiration easily and without a trace of self-consciousness. On
                        the third finger of her left hand was a slender  band of gold. The thing was staggering, bewildering. She was clearly
                        anxious to be friendly, but nothing that I had thought of saying to her
                        fitted the situation.
                    "In the first place," I finally began, "I must
                        apologize most humbly for the earnest efforts of the servants to murder you
                        last night. Mr. Torrence had promised to let me know when you would reach
                        here, but he must have forgotten it. I had motored, to a friend's
                        house to dine and didn't get back until the mischief was done.
                        I'm very sorry. You must have thought you had driven into a camp of
                        savages!"
                    "Not for worlds would I have missed that," she exclaimed
                        with a merry laugh. "It was perfectly delicious! And it was all my
                        fault. I meant to remain a day at Hartford, you know, and send a message to
                        Mr. Torrence from there, but I found that by pushing on I could reach here
                        yesterday. Then the machine I hired showed every weakness that motors are
                        subject to and we were hours later than the Hartford garage man promised.
                        And you know we English always expect strange things to happen in America. I
                        don't understand  yet why those people
                        at the gates were so jolly anxious to kill us; but it doesn't
                        matter; you would only spoil the joke by explaining it."
                    However, I did my bestit was a weak attemptto explain the nervousness of the
                        veteran servants and their display of violence. Her arrival made it likely
                        that we should soon know more about the "parties" whose
                        visits and inquiries had so alarmed Antoine and his comrades. Now that I saw
                        Mrs. Bashford the idea that any one could entertain malevolent designs upon
                        her was more preposterous than ever, and I resolved that she must be
                        shielded from annoyances of every kind. I told her with all the humor I
                        could throw into the recital of the drilling of the bell-hops and of the
                        uncomfortable relations between the Allied forces and the Teutonic minority
                        on the estate.
                    "It was dear of Mr. Bashford to provide a home for these people;
                        wasn't he really the kindest soul that ever lived?" she
                        said softly.
                    She gazed wistfully seaward, and I saw the gleam of tears on her long lashes.
                        My uncle had, then, meant something to her! No one,  in speech or manner, could have suggested the adventuress less;
                        Uncle Bash was a gentleman, a man of aesthetic tastes, and the girl was
                        adorable. More remarkable things had happened in the history of love and
                        marriage than that two such persons, meeting in a far corner of the world,
                        would honestly care for each other. My respect for Uncle Bash grew; he had
                        married the most attractive girl in the world, and here she was with the
                        bloom of her girlhood upon her, tripping alone through a world that might
                        have been created merely that she might confer light and cheer upon it.
                    "You stopped at Hartford," I began, breaking a long
                        silence. "You have friends there?"
                    "Not one! I had made a pious pilgrimage to Mark Twain's
                        last home at Redding, and, hearing that he had lived at Hartford, I came
                        through there to render my fullest homage. He has always been one of my
                        heroes, you know." She laughingly lifted her hands and counted upon
                        her fingers"'The Jumping Frog,' Tom and Huck, and
                        'Mulberry Sellers,' 'The Prince and the
                        Pauper,' and 'Pudd'n-head Wilson'! I
                        know them all by heart!"
                    
                    "Our introduction is complete," I said reverently.
                        "Let's consider ourselves old friends."
                    "I rather thought we'd understand each other," she
                        said in her even, mellow tones, "You know, we had your photograph
                        out Easta very good one, it seemsso I had an idea of what you looked
                        like."
                    "The photograph gave you an unfair advantage! And I didn't
                        know Uncle Bash carried one away with him."
                    "He was very fond of you," she said gravely. "He
                        was very proud that you had gone into the war."
                    "I am glad to hear that; I thought he disapproved of me for refusing
                        to go into business. He offered me a substantial interest before he sold
                        out."
                    "I know that; but I think he liked you rather better for refusing
                        it. Business with him was merely a means to an end. And it was doubly sad
                        that he should die just when he was free to enjoy the beautiful things he
                        loved."
                    It was at the tip of my tongue to say that the loss of her companionship was
                        even more grievous; but nothing in her manner invited  such a comment. Her grave moods were to be respected, and she
                        talked for some time of Uncle Bash's life in the East, of his short
                        illness and quite unexpected death.
                    "But I'm keeping you," she exclaimed suddenly,
                        jumping down from the wall. "And I must finish my
                        unpacking."
                    As we walked to the house I answered her questions about the neighborhood,
                        and promised to telephone Torrence immediately of her arrival.
                    "You will have luncheon with usor maybe dinner would be betteror
                        both? Antoine told me of your bachelor establishment, but eating alone is
                        bad for the digestion. I shall think you resent my coming if you
                        don't dine at the house every day. Mrs. Farnsworthmy friend and
                        companionis a very interesting woman. I am sure you will like her."
                    The information that she was protected in her youthful widowhood by a
                        companion was imparted neatly.
                    "It was really much nicer, meeting this way," she said,
                        giving me her hand. "We shall expect you at seven."
                    I found them on the veranda, which had  been
                        transformed since my last glimpse of it, Rugs, wicker furniture,
                        wall-pockets of flowers, and paper lanterns dropped over the electric lights
                        gave it the appearance of a prettily set scene. She came toward me, a
                        slender figure in white. She seemed taller in white; as she took a few steps
                        toward me, I was aware of a stateliness I had missed at the shore. A queenly
                        young person, but as unaffectedly cordial and friendly as in the bright
                        morning sunlight.
                    " Mrs. Farnsworth, Mr. Singleton."
                    Mrs. Farnsworth was a pleasant-faced, white-haired woman with remarkably
                        fine, dark eyes. If the positions had been changedif Mrs. Farnsworth had
                        been my uncle's choice of a wife, the situation would have been
                        much more real. I instantly liked Mrs. Farnsworth. She uttered a few
                        commonplaces in an uncommonplace tone without pausing in her knitting. Mrs.
                        Bashford had been knitting too, and as she sat down she took up her yarn and
                        needles. It was a sweater, I think; it doesn't matter. What matters
                        is that her hands moved swiftly and deftly. Her manner of knitting was
                        charming. She knew that I  was watching her
                        hands and remarked with a graceful turn of the head:
                    "For an English boy somewhere! I began by knitting for my brother
                        and cousins, but"her head bent lower"that isn't
                        for me to do any more." Her eyes, turned upon me for a moment, were
                        bright with tears.
                    I was speaking of the splendid valor of Englishmen I had known in France when
                        Antoine announced dinner.
                    It had been years since the house had known a woman's hand, and it
                        was astonishing how humanized it had become in a few hours. The long
                        dining-room, always a bare, forbidding place, had been reduced to cosey
                        proportions by screens, and a small round table replaced the massive, oblong
                        affair that always looked as though it had been built into the house by the
                        carpenters.
                    "I found those lovely screens in the garret and thought we might as
                        well enjoy them, and that Lang Yao jar you see on the sideboard
                        oughtn't to be hidden in the vault."
                    "I am sure Uncle Bash would be happy to know you care for these
                        things so much," I said, noting that the white roses she had  chosen for the jarI knew the choice was
                        hersserved to emphasize the deep red of its exquisite glaze.
                    "I am among the unelect," remarked Mrs. Farnsworth.
                        "When I am told that such things are beautiful I am immediately
                        convinced. I say they are beautiful, and that is enough."
                    "That has always been enough for me," I replied.
                        "My uncle used to try to interest me, and I wore out a good many
                        pairs of shoes following him through museums and salesrooms, but he gave me
                        up when he found that my pagan soul was aroused by nothing but pottery
                        idols. It wasn't the pottery that interested me even there, but
                        only the ugliest designs. I am a heathen!"
                    "I am gratified that you make the admission so frankly,"
                        said Mrs. Farnsworth. "I have always been a great admirer of the
                        heathen."
                    "I like them when they are nice," said Mrs. Bashford.
                    "Yes; I have found you very discriminating in your choice of the
                        species, Alice. But, you know, Mr. Singleton, Alice and I never  can agree as to just what a heathen is. All
                        our squabbles have been about that. The old hymn pictured the heathen in his
                        blindness bowing down to wood and stone; but I'm disposed to
                        broaden my definition to include all who believe in fairies good or bad, and
                        persons who honestly believe in signs, omens, and lucky stones and all who
                        have the receipt of fern-seed and walk invisiblethere's Shakespeare
                        for that. Some very good Christians are also very nice heathens: we
                        mustn't be narrow and bigoted about such things."
                    "I think," said Mrs. Bashford soberly, "that I
                        have always believed in witches; and if I keep on believing I shall see one
                        some day. We shall find anything in this world that we believe in hard
                        enough. Now a witchthe kind of witch I have always expected to wake up and
                        find flourishing a broom at me from the foot of my bed"
                    She was talking very gravely, as though witches were the commonest topic of
                        conversation, but finding my eyes turned upon her in frank wonder, she
                        laughed at my amazement.
                    
                    "Let us be honest with you, Mr. Singleton," Mrs. Farnsworth
                        explained, "and tell you that we are just testing you. It may be a
                        breach of hospitality, and you are all but a stranger, but we are curious to
                        know whether you are of that small company of the favored of heaven who can
                        play at being foolish without becoming idiotic. Alice is sometimes very near
                        idiocy. You admit that, Alice!"
                    "I not only admit it, but I might even boast of it!" my
                        aunt replied
                    At the mention of witches I had caught Antoine crossing himself as he turned
                        to the sideboard. I confess that I myself had been startled by the drift of
                        the talk. Mrs. Farnsworth was far from being the grim duenna I had feared
                        might be my aunt's chaperon, and there was certainly nothing in her
                        appearance to suggest that she was a believer in witches. She and my aunt
                        treated each other as though they were contemporaries, and it was Alice and
                        Constance between them. As the talk ran exhaustively through the lore of
                        witches and goblins I had hoped that one or the other would drop some clew
                        as to the previous history of my amazing aunt. It was as plain as  day that she and Mrs. Farnsworth indulged in
                        whims for the joy of it, and her zest in the discussion of witches, carried
                        on while Antoine served the table, lips tightly compressed, and with an
                        exaggeration of his stately tread, was the more startling from the fact that
                        my aunt's companion was a woman of years, a handsome woman with a
                        high-bred air who did not look at all like a person who would discuss
                        witches as though they had been made the topic of the day by the afternoon
                        newspapers. And when the shape of a witch's chin became the
                        immediate point of discussion I knew it was in Antoine's mind that
                        such conversation was unbecoming, an offense to the memory of Raymond
                        Bashford. Mrs. Farnsworth's brown eyes sparkled, and the color
                        deepened in my aunt's cheeks as we discoursed upon witches and the
                        chins thereof. I had a friend in college who used to indulge in the same
                        sort of piffling, but that my uncle's widow and her elderly
                        companion should delight in such absurdities bewildered me. I had been
                        addressing my aunt as Mrs. Bashfordit seemed ridiculous to call her Aunt
                        Aliceand in the heat of our argument as to 
                        whether witches are necessarily naughty and malign beings I had just uttered
                        the "Mrs." when she bent toward me and said gravely and
                        with no hint of archness: "Can't we make it Alice and Bob?
                        I think that would be a lot friendlier."
                    I experienced a curious flutter of the heart the first time I tried it, but
                        after that it came very easily. I found it impossible to think of her in
                        terms of auntship, and it was a relief to have the relationship waived. She
                        was simply the jolliest, prettiest girl that had ever crossed my horizon,
                        and to be talking to her across the table gave me thrills compared with
                        which sliding out of clouds in an airplane is only a rocking-chair pastime
                        for old men.
                    The veteran chef of the Tyringham had produced an excellent dinner, though
                        the witch talk made Antoine a trifle nervous in serving it.
                    We had coffee on the veranda (Alice thought it would be nicer there), and as
                        Antoine gave me my cup he edged close to my chair to whisper:
                    "That party, sir. If he should come
                    "Tell the troops not to attack any visitors,"  I said, loud enough for the others to hear.
                    "Mr. Torrence will be here shortly, and it would be annoying to have
                        him ushered in on a shutter. We must establish a rule that callers are not
                        to be fired upon at the gate."
                    "I know why this is the land of the free and the home of the
                        brave," laughed Alice.
                    "One has to be brave to live here."
                    Antoine departed with a resentful twist of the shoulders, and I decided to
                        meet squarely the matter of the visitors who had so troubled him.
                    "Please don't be frightened," I said as lightly as
                        possible, "but these old fellows haven't enough to do, and
                        they are full of apprehensions. With nobody here to keep them busy
                        it's remarkable they haven't found a ghost."
                    "If they only would!" murmured Mrs. Farnsworth.
                    "No such luck! They have been alarmed by an agent of some sort who
                        wants to welcome you to America by selling you a piano on easy
                        payments."
                    Antoine had been hovering inside, and my remark brought him to the door.  "Beg pardon, Mr. Singleton, but that
                        party is not an agent, but quite different, sir.
                    He came to the house, quite like a gentleman, several times, and asked if
                        Mrs. Bashford had arrived. He came in a big car, and seemed disappointed,
                        madame, that you were not here and not expected. The second time he said he
                        was just passing on his way to the city and thought he would stop again.
                    A very well-spoken gentleman, and we'd have thought nothing of it
                        except that a few days later I caught a man I was sure was the same party,
                        but dressed in rough clothes, sneaking across the veranda right there where
                        you're sitting. When I called to him he ran as hard as he could,
                        and Graveshe's the vegetable-gardenersaw him leaving the property
                        by the back way."
                    "It's hardly possible that a man who impressed you as a
                        gentleman when you saw him at the door should have returned in disguise and
                        tried to break into the house.
                    The two things don't hang together, Antoine."
                    "Oh," exclaimed Mrs. Farnsworth, "it would be so
                        much more delightful if that were  true! Any
                        one in disguise is bound to be interesting. A disguise suggests most
                        beautiful possibilities. And to be sought, asked for by a
                        stranger!"
                    I could not be sure in the dim light of the veranda, but I thought I detected
                        a white slipper cautiously reach out and touch a black one. At any rate,
                        Mrs. Farnsworth lapsed into silence.
                    " Thank you very much, Antoine," said Alice. "It
                        is very proper for you to tell me anything of any stranger on the property,
                        but I see nothing here to be alarmed about. If the same gentleman calls
                        again, let me know instantly."
                    "Very good, madame." And then, turning as though conferring
                        upon me a part of his responsibility for the security of the premises:
                        "It's a party with a limp; just a trifling limp, sir;
                        you'd hardly notice it. It was worse the last time as he ran away.
                        A smallish man, rather dark, with a little mustache turned up at the
                        ends."
                    "I have noted all these details, Antoine," I replied; and
                        again I thought there was a telegraphic exchange between the ladies,  though this time a black slipper was the means
                        of communication.
                    Torrence arrived in a moment, and nothing has ever given me keener joy than
                        his shock of surprise at beholding Mrs. Bashford. As I introduced the ladies
                        he was so overcome that he greeted Mrs. Farnsworth as Mrs. Bashforda not
                        unnatural mistakeand there was an embarrassing moment as I set him right.
                        Having done this, I seated myself beside Mrs. Farnsworth that Torrence might
                        be free to talk business with my aunt.
                    I was devoutly grateful that he had not been present at the dinner-table, for
                        my own efforts to interest Torrence in anything but the most practical
                        matters had always been highly unsuccessful, and the discussion of ghosts
                        and witches would hardly have amused him. As Mrs. Farnsworth and I took up
                        the recent movements on the western front I overheard Torrence putting all
                        the machinery of the trust company at Mrs. Bashford's disposal. It
                        seemed almost a blasphemy to be talking of income and like matters to a
                        woman like Alice Bashford!
                    They continued their conference for some time, but I got nothing out of Mrs.
                        Farnsworth  that shed any light on my
                        aunt's history beyond what she had told me herself, which was
                        precious little. Mrs. Farnsworth's talk was that of a cultivated
                        woman. Her voice interested me unaccountably; the tones had all manner of
                        shadings and inflections; it was curiously musical, but in speaking of the
                        great war a passionate note crept into it that stirred me deeply.
                    "This has been a dark year for Alice," she remarked.
                        "Mr. Bashford's death, followed quickly by that of her
                        brotheran only sonpiled a cruel burden of grief upon the dear child. She
                        wants to go back to England to nurse the wounded, to do anything for our
                        dear country, but I want to keep her here a little while until she can
                        readjust herself. You must not think, Mr. Singleton, that she has no
                        feeling; you have no idea of the depths of that child's nature;
                        they are unfathomable!
                    It is my task to encourage her in frivolity and the make-believe she
                        loveshence our absurdities at the table. She's the drollest child,
                        but with wonderful understanding.
                    And at times it's not easy to keep the divine spark of play alive in
                        her heart."
                    The light of one of the porch lamps fell  upon
                        Alice's face as she patiently gave heed to Torrence's
                        account of his stewardship. One of her hands gently stroked the terrier that
                        lay quietly in a chair beside her. I was sure that his painstaking
                        description of assets and market values was boring her. Once her voice rose
                        in expostulation. Torrence, I judged, was suggesting that legal means could
                        be found to expel the old Tyringham employees from the Barton property.
                    "Oh, never in the world! It was quite like Mr. Bashford to want to
                        care for these people in their old age. And"she laughed and turned
                        toward me"they can't be dislodged while Bob lives; and we
                        don't want to part with him just yet."
                    I was glad to have him hear her address me in this intimate fashion. Torry
                        always inspired in me a desire to shock him. He was trying to assure Alice
                        that his only concern was to make her comfortable; he wished to save her
                        from every annoyance and that sort of thing.
                    "I shall help Alice to break them in, Torry," I said,
                        lingering upon her name for his special edification.
                    
                    "Of course, Singleton," he replied. "I
                        wasn't sure you meant to stay on. Pardon me, but I
                        didn't"
                    "Oh, it isn't that Bob hasn't a right to
                        stay," said Alice quickly; "Mrs. Farnsworth and I are
                        hoping that he will like us well enough to share our exile on other
                        accounts. We are so unfamiliar with everything American that it would be
                        most unkind for him to desert us."
                    "I am engaging Mr. Singleton to explain American jokes to
                        me," announced Mrs. Farnsworth. "Alice seems to get them,
                        but I'm never sure."
                    It is a part of Torrence's business to counsel widows, which he does
                        like the honorable man he is, but as he rose to go presently, remarking that
                        his wife would motor down to call shortly, I caught a glimpse of his face
                        that indicated deep perplexity. I wanted to warn him that Alice Bashford was
                        not an ordinary widow, who vexes officers of trust companies with foolish
                        questions and is prone to overdraw her account, so I left when he did.
                    "I want to talk to you," he said nervously  when we were outside. "I'll
                        send the car ahead to the gate."
                    When the shrubbery cut us off from the house he stopped abruptly and seized
                        my arm.
                    "What do you make of it?" he demanded.
                    "Make of what?" I asked.
                    "That girl!" he exclaimed testily.
                    "If you insist, I must avow that she's adorable, nothing
                        else."
                    "Don't be a fool! You knew Raymond Bashford much better
                        than I did, and you know perfectly well he never married a young girl of
                        that sort! Those women are playing a trick, and I'm surprised that
                        you don't see through it."
                    "My uncle was a man of taste and a gentleman," I answered
                        deliberately. "There's nothing in the least improbable in
                        his being infatuated with a young woman of charm and wit like this girl. And
                        it is hardly profitable or decent to speculate as to her interest in him.
                        You mustn't forget that Uncle Bash was an unusual man, a man with
                        whom a young girl might easily fall in love without reference to his age or
                        money or anything else."
                    
                    "I tell you it won't do," he insisted.
                        "If either of those women at the house is Raymond
                        Bashford's widow, it's the one who calls herself
                        Farnsworth."
                    "You did your best to convict them of fraud the first jump out of
                        the box," I said, laughing at the recollection of his confusion
                        when I introduced him.
                    "My mistake was a natural one," he said defensively.
                        "They're playing a game of some kind and it's no
                        laughing matter, but it won't take long to find out what
                        they're up to."
                    "You'll hardly go the length of having them arrested as
                        imposters, Torrencenot without some data to work on!"
                    "Certainly not. You seem to be hitting it off with both of them, but
                        I advise you to be on guard. Are you sure your uncle never sent you his
                        wife's photograph? That would have been a perfectly natural thing
                        to do."
                    "If I'd got a photograph, I should have headed for Japan,
                        not for France." I laughed, but I was thinking deeply. His line of
                        reasoning as to the incongruity of the marriage was not so different from my
                        own that I could  sneer at his suspicions. Very
                        convincingly, as became a practical-minded man, he expanded his views as to
                        the unlikelihood of my uncle's marrying a girl but little beyond
                        school age. I shrank from telling him that I didn't care a hang
                        whether the widow was a fraud or not. If the two women who had settled
                        themselves on the Barton estate were imposters, they were extraordinarily
                        daring and clever. My attitude toward them was wholly defensive. If women of
                        their quality were perpetrating a fraud, I was for giving them every chance,
                        and I had no intention of allowing Torrence to spoil the unfolding of the
                        conspiracy.
                    We were nearing a gateway where his car waited, and I saw several of the
                        guard hanging about at a discreet distance. "Look here,
                        Singleton," he said angrily, "you don't seem to
                        take this business very seriously. You don't want to make the
                        mistake of letting a pretty girl pull the wool over your eyes. If
                        we're not careful, we're all of us likely to get into
                        trouble." He lowered his voice and added tensely: "Those
                        women are under suspicion of something more serious than an attempt  to rob an estate. An agent of the American
                        State Department called on me yesterday and asked embarrassing questions
                        about Mrs. Bashford. Not a Secret Service man, you understand, or anything
                        of that kind, but an important man in the State Department."
                    "Of course you knew nothing to tell," I suggested as he
                        beat the walk impatiently with his stick.
                    "I took a chance at lying to him about her expected arrival. I
                        thought it only decent to have a look at the woman first. He told me nothing
                        except that the British Embassy had made inquiries and that the matter was
                        delicate and must be handled carefully."
                    "Was this inquirer lamea small dark man with a black
                        mustache?" I asked, suddenly interested. "Such a person
                        has been hanging about here, so the boys tell me?"
                    "Not at all! I may as well tell you it was Raynoryou probably
                        remember him. He's a specialist in international law, and they took
                        him into the State Department just after the Lusitania business.
                        He's a gentleman and a good fellowI've played golf with
                             him a good dealand I hated to lie to him.
                        Of course, with the whole United States back of him he can pursue his
                        inquiries without my help; but I thought I'd see this woman before
                        telling him she had reached America."
                    I confess that I was a trifle dismayed by this. Raynor I knew slightly.
                        Professionally and socially he stood high, and even without the prestige of
                        his official position he was not a chap to sneeze at; but I didn't
                        want Torrence to know I had any doubts as to the perfect authenticity of my
                        uncle's widow.
                    "Oh, every transcontinental pilgrim is probably scrutinized closely
                        these days," I remarked carelessly. "Mrs. Bashford has
                        lost a brother in the war, and I haven't heard any one talk more
                        bitterly against Germany. And her companion certainly has no illusions about
                        the Kaiser. You'd have to show me the proof to make me believe
                        we're harboring spies."
                    "I don't like the business," he declared
                        stubbornly.
                    "Let's do nothing foolish," I insisted.
                        "If Raynor has reason to suspect either or both of these women,
                        we'll hear further from him."
                    
                    "I've put myself in a hole," he said angrily.
                    "Of course I've got to advise him immediately that Mrs.
                        Bashford is here. I promised to let him know as soon as I heard from
                        her."
                    "Just wait a few days; I undertake to keep them under surveillance;
                        you can put the whole responsibility on me. If they attempt to leave,
                        I'll warn you and Raynor instantly, but they have settled
                        themselves as though they expected to spend the rest of their lives here.
                        Remembering your visit the other night, you ought to be satisfied with the
                        policing of the place!"
                    I told him of Mrs. Bashford's adventures in reaching the house
                        without convincing him that there was anything funny in her experiences, and
                        he left on my promise to report to him daily at a given hour and instantly
                        if anything unusual occurred. I waited for the guards to lock the gates and
                        bade them keep watch every night until further orders, and was on my way
                        back through the grounds when Antoine arrested me.
                    "Pardon me, but I'd like to ask what you think of it,
                        sir?" he asked hoarsely, falling into step.
                    
                    "If you mean what do I think of Mrs. Bashford," I replied
                        sharply," I think she's quite charming and delightful and
                        all any one could ask in every way."
                    "It's her manner of speaking of spookish things, Mr.
                        Singleton. It doesn't seem fitting in a widow and her so lately
                        bereaved. And the older lady's quite as bad, sir. The maids tell me
                        they keep talking all day about fairies and pretending they're
                        queens and such like, and talking poetry to each other."
                    "Quoting poetry is a harmless amusement, Antoine, and believing in
                        fairies and goblins is no crime. Such pastimes argue for sweetness and
                        innocence of character."
                    "But the late master never indulged in such things, sir."
                    "He would have lived longer if he had! It was probably the poetry
                        and fairies that attracted him to Mrs. Bashford."
                    "Yes, sir," he acquiesced with a gulp. "I suppose
                        you're right, sir."
                    "You should be grateful to Mrs. Bashford for not bouncing you all
                        for the row you made last night. It could be done; in fact, Mr. Torrence has
                        suggested that legal means could be found for getting rid of you."
                    
                    "That would be very sad, sir," he said humbly.
                    "Isn't Mrs. Bashford kind to you? Hasn't she taken
                        pains to make you all feel at home?"
                    "Well, yes, sir. But she's taken Elsie back into the house,
                        and there's no work for her, there being two women in the laundry
                        already; and she's told me Dutch must be given his old place in
                        charge of the poultry; and both being Germans, you will recall."
                    "It's just her kind heart, you idiot! You've all
                        been spoiled; that's what's the matter with you. Elsie and
                        Dutch are as law-abiding and honest as the best of you."
                    "It causes feeling; that's all, sir."
                    "It needn't cause it if you brace up and act like a
                        man," I retorted. Then, sorry I had been so harsh, I added:
                        "We must take good care of Mrs. Bashford, Antoine. It would be your
                        old master's wish. It will do no harm to keep a guard at the house
                        for the present in case your mysterious stranger turns up again."
                    He couldn't have failed to note my change of tone about the unknown
                        visitor, but he made no comment.
                    
                    "The guard's set, sir; front and rear."
                    "While there's no danger whatever it's just as
                        well to take no chances. Please tell the boys to send for me immediately at
                        any hour of the night if they see any prowlers about."
                    "Very good, sir. But if you please, sir"he had reached the
                        garage and he lingered, fingering his hat nervously"if it
                        wasn't for the ladies talking about spirits, we'd all feel
                        better, sir. It's creepy, sir, all the talk about witches and
                        ghosts, no matter what names you call 'em by."
                    "You're far from being a fool, Antoine.
                    Those ladies just play at believing in such rubbish. If they really believed
                        in ghosts, you may be sure they wouldn't talk about it at table
                        before strangers like you and me."
                    Though this seemed to impress him, a moment later, as I was drawing down the
                        shades in my bedroom, I saw him running across the lawn like a frightened
                        rabbit.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    A FAN
                    THE morning mail brought a letter from Searles acknowledging my
                        congratulations on his play. While my enthusiastic praise pleased him, he
                        was very scornful of my suggestions about available stars, and seemed even
                        more depressed than when he talked to me.
                    "It's impossible for me to plan other work.
                    'Lady Larkspur' ate the soul out of me. I'm done;
                        finished, clean out of the running. There's only this to report. I
                        had a letter from Dalton saying that some time ago he asked at the hotel
                        where he sent the script of 'Lady Larkspur' to know
                        whether Miss Dewing had sent a forwarding address. He had to see the manager
                        before he got any satisfaction, but he did learn that her accumulated mail
                        had been called for by some one whose identity was not disclosed. Of course
                        this isn't much to hang a hope on, but if that play is what I think
                        it is and Miss
                    
                    Violet Dewing ever reads it she's going to jump for the telegraph
                        office the moment she finishes the last act. I have no plans for returning
                        East; the folks at home let me do as I please, and it's a relief to
                        be in seclusion where I hear nothing of the doings of Broadway. I hope your
                        ancient globe-trotting aunt still lingers in the Far East! Keep the ink
                        flowing, son. That novel ought to be well under way when I get
                        back."
                    The tale I had begun seemed utter trash in comparison with the story of Alice
                        Bashford, in which, much against my will, I had become a minor character. I
                        had rather prided myself on my ability to see through a plot in the first
                        chapter of the most complicated mystery story, but there were points in this
                        unwritten tale that baffled me.
                    I kept away from the house until dinnertime, when I was received quite as an
                        old friend by Alice and Mrs. Farnsworth. The table talk was of Celtic
                        poetry, and proved less disturbing to Antoine than the previous
                        night's discussion of ghosts.
                    Their day had been spent, they explained, in a further examination of my
                        uncle's Japanese  loot, and they had
                        taken a long walk beyond the estate's boundaries and were
                        enthusiastic about the landscape.
                    "It's so beautifully peaceful all about here,"
                        Alice murmured. "I feel that I never want to move again."
                    "That's a real tribute to America," Mrs.
                        Farnsworth remarked; "for Alice dearly loves new scenes. She
                        inherited a taste for travel from her father, who put some new places on the
                        maps, you know."
                    I didn't know and I wanted to ask questions about Alice's
                        father, but as though anxious to frustrate such inquiries my aunt asked how
                        close we were to the place made famous by Israel Putnam's
                        spectacular escape from the British. She had read the story and would motor
                        to the scene, she declared. It was quite clear that there were chapters in
                        her life that were not to be opened for my perusal. No sooner had I caught a
                        glimpse of a promising page than the book was politely closed. A curtain
                        hung between the immediate present at Barton-on-the-Sound and other scenes
                        and incidents of the girl's life; and Mrs. Farnsworth was equally
                        detached  from any tangible background. It
                        seemed that I might meet them daily for the rest of my life in this same
                        friendly fashion without adding a particle to my knowledge of them.
                    I became alert immediately when, as we rose from the table, Alice said, with
                        the air of asking an unimportant favor:
                    "We were speaking last night of a man who has been asking for us
                        here. His visits have alarmed the servants, but there is nothing to fear
                        from him. You know"she smiled at Mrs.
                        Farnsworth"it's rather he who seems to fear us; that, at
                        least, is our impression, though we have no idea why he should do so. Still,
                        it's rather good fun to find yourself an object of special
                        attention and to be followed, even pursued. We've even led him on a
                        little, haven't we, Constance?"
                    Mrs. Farnsworth laughingly admitted that they had led the gentleman on a
                        trifle, "but with all circumspection," she protested.
                    "We met him here and there in Tokyo, and later were surprised to
                        find him crossing on our steamer. We threw him off in the Canadian Rockies,
                        where we stopped for a day,  and eluded him in
                        Chicago, where he was evidently lying in wait for us."
                    "Delightful!" I exclaimed.
                    "But please don't get the idea that the man annoys
                        us," interposed Mrs. Farnsworth.
                    "Far from it!" cried Alice.
                    "You've seen enough of us perhaps to understand that we
                        enjoy little adventures," said Mrs. Farnsworth. "The man
                        pretends to be interested in Mr. Bashford's art treasures.
                        Antoine's story about the disguise is rather against that; but we
                        will give him the benefit of the doubt. What we are hoping is that something
                        really amusing may come of his persistent pursuit. With you and the army of
                        servants here we feel perfectly safe; so we're for giving him every
                        chance to show his hand."
                    "He is the Count Giuseppe Montani," said my aunt,
                        "who represents himself as a connoisseura lover of the
                        beautiful."
                    "The mystery is solved! It is easy to understand why he has haunted
                        the place."
                    "Yes; quite easy. Count Montani is very anxious to see the
                        porcelains."
                    "I wasn't referring to the pottery; but I shan't
                        press the matter."
                    
                    "I advise you not to; your remark was highly improper from a nephew
                        to an aunt!
                    I have told you about all I know of this Italian gentleman. I am going to ask
                        a favor. He telephoned from Stamford this afternoon to know whether we had
                        arrived, and I bade him call to-night. I should be glad if you would remain
                        until he leaves. I should like to know what you make of him."
                    "Certainly," I assented, pleased that she had taken me into
                        her confidence and deeply curious as to the Italian connoisseur. What she
                        had told so frankly and plausibly did not, however, touch upon the matter of
                        the interest shown by the American State Department in my aunt's
                        arrival at Barton, which troubled me much more than the antics of the
                        Italian who had followed the women across the Pacific.
                    Count Montani arrived shortly and was received in the drawing-room. The
                        ladies greeted him with the greatest cordiality. As he crossed the room I
                        verified the limp and other points of Antoine's description. His
                        bearing was that of a gentleman; and in his very correct evening dress he
                        hardly looked  like a man who would disguise
                        himself and attempt to rob a house. He spoke English all but perfectly and
                        proceeded at once to talk a great deal.
                    "I was sad when I found I had so narrowly missed you at Seattle, and
                        again at Chicago. You travel far too rapidly for one of my age!"
                    His age might have been thirty. He was a suave, polished, sophisticated
                        person. Nothing was more natural than that he should pause in his travels to
                        call upon two agreeable women he had met on a Pacific steamer. Possibly he
                        was in love with Alice Bashford; this was not a difficult state of heart and
                        mind for a man to argue himself into. She was even more strikingly beautiful
                        to-night than I had thought her before. She was again in whiteit was only in
                        daytime that she wore blackand white was exceedingly becoming to her. As we
                        talked she plied listlessly a fana handsome trinket of ostrich plumes. A
                        pretty woman and a fan are the happiest possible combination. There is no
                        severer test of grace than a woman's manner of using a fan. A
                        clumsy woman  makes an implement of this
                        plaything, flourishing it to emphasize her talk, or, what is worse, pointing
                        with it like an instructor before a blackboard. But in graceful hands it is
                        unobtrusive, a mere bit of decoration that teases and fascinates the
                        beholder's eye.
                    With all his poise and equanimity I was distinctly conscious that
                        Montani's dark eyes were intent upon the idly swaying fan. I
                        thought at first it was her hands that interested him as they unfailingly
                        interested me, but when, from time to time, she put down the fan his gaze
                        still followed it. And yet there was nothing novel in the delicate
                        combination of ivory and feathers. I had seen many fans that to all
                        appearances were just like it. Once, as she picked it up and lazily opened
                        it, I saw him bend forward eagerly, then, finding that I had noted his
                        eagerness, he rose, pretending that a brass screen before the fireplace had
                        caught his eye and asked whether it was not a Florentine production, which
                        shook my faith in his connoisseurship, as I had bought the thing myself from
                        a New York brassworker who had made it to my order.
                    
                    Montani spoke of the porcelains. "Oh, to be sure! They
                        don't show to best advantage in electric light, do they? But I can
                        have a few of the prize pieces taken into the dining-room," said
                        Alice.
                    Mrs. Farnsworth had excused herself to finish a letter, and from my chair I
                        could see her head bent over the big desk in the library. Alice rang for
                        Antoine, and I followed her into the hall to offer my aid.
                    "Oh, don't trouble," she said. "Antoine
                        can do anything necessary. Yes; thanks; if you will turn on the dining-room
                        lights."
                    I was gone hardly half a minute. When I receded the drawing-room door Montani
                        had crossed the room to the table on which Alice had dropped the fan and was
                        examining it closely. He faced the door, and the moment he detected me
                        exclaimed carelessly:
                    "An exquisite little bauble! I am always curious as to the source of
                        such trifles. I was looking for the maker's imprimatur. I know a
                        Parisian who is the leading manufacturer of the world. But it is not his, I
                        see."
                    As we stood talking of other things he plied the fan carelessly as though for
                        the  pleasure of the faint scent it exhaled,
                        and when Alice called us he put it down carefully where he had found it.
                    He really did seem to know something about ceramics and praised, with lively
                        enthusiasm, the pieces that had been set out on the table. One piece, as to
                        whose authenticity my uncle had entertained serious doubts, Montani
                        unhesitatingly pronounced genuine and stated very plausible reasons for his
                        opinion.
                    On the whole, he was an interesting fellow. When he had finished his
                        inspections he lingered for only a few minutes and took his leave, saying
                        that he was spending the night at an inn near Stamford.
                    "Well," said Alice when the whir of his machine had died
                        away, "what do you think of him?"
                    "A very agreeable gentleman," I answered. "If he
                        doesn't know porcelains, he fakes his talk admirably."
                    "And as to fans" suggested Mrs. Farnsworth.
                    I had not intended to mention Montani's interest in Alice's
                        fan, and the remark surprised me.
                    
                    "Oh, I saw it all from the library," laughed Mrs.
                        Farnsworth. "My back was to the door, but I was facing a mirror.
                        The moment you and Alice went into the hall he pounced upon the fanpounced
                        is the only word that describes it. He concealed his interest in it very
                        neatly when you caught him examining it."
                    "Fans are harmless things," said Alice, "and if
                        there's any story attached to this one I'm not aware of
                        it. My father bought it in Paris about three years ago, and it has never
                        been out of my possession except to have it repaired. There's a
                        Japanese jeweller who does wonderful things in the way of repairing trinkets
                        of every kind. I left it with him for a few days. I can't tell now
                        which panel was broken, he did his work so deftly."
                    I took it from her and balanced it in my fingers. It was a beautiful piece of
                        workmanship with the simplest carvings on the ivory panels.
                    "He couldn't have seen it anywhere before
                        to-night," observed Alice musingly. "In fact, I
                        hadn't used it at all for a year. It was really by mistake that my
                        maid put it into my trunk when I went to Japan. I didn't  want to risk breaking it again, so
                        I've been carrying it in a hand-bag. The last day we were in Tokyo
                        I think I had it in our sitting-room in the hotel, to make sure it
                        wasn't jammed into the trunk again. We had a good many callersa
                        number of people came in to bid us good-by, but I'm sure Count
                        Montani was not among them, and it would have been impossible for him to see
                        it at any other time."
                    "Oh, there is nothing disturbing in the count's interest in
                        the thing," said Mrs. Farnsworth with an air of dismissing the
                        matter. "If it were a jade trinket inscribed with Chinese
                        mysteries, you might imagine that it would be sought by some oneI have heard
                        of such thingsbut Alice's fan has no such history."
                    "We weren't very hospitable," said Alice.
                        "I might have asked Count Montani to dine with us to-morrow; and we
                        might even have put him up for the night in this vast house."
                    "Not with Antoine on the premises!" I exclaimed.
                        "Antoine is convinced that the man is what we call in America a
                        crook. And  Antoine takes his responsibilities
                        very seriously."
                    While I was breakfasting at the garage the next morning Antoine appeared and,
                        waiting until Flynn was out of hearing, handed me a slip of paper.
                    "That's a New York automobile number," he said.
                        "It was on the tag of that machine the party came in last night. I
                        heard him saying, sir, as how he had motored up from the Elkton Inn at
                        Stamford. Visitors from Stamford would hardly send in to the city for a
                        machine."
                    I bade him wait while I called the Elkton by telephone. No such person as
                        Giuseppe Montani had spent the night there or had been a guest of the house
                        within the memory of the clerk. Antoine's chest swelled at this
                        confirmation of his suspicions.
                    "If the man returns, treat him as you did last nightas though he
                        were entitled to the highest consideration."
                    "He won't come backnot the same way," said
                        Antoine. "He mentioned the Elkton just to throw you off. The next
                        you hear of him will be quite different.
                    
                    "You mean he'll come as a burglar?"
                        "That's what's in my mind, Mr. Singleton.
                        Everything seems very queer, sir."
                    "Such as what, Antoine?"
                    "The widow has been telegraphing and telephoning considerable,
                        sir."
                    "There must be no spying upon these ladies!" I admonished
                        severely. "All the people on the place must remember that Mrs.
                        Bashford is mistress here, and entitled to fullest respect."
                    He had hardly gone before Torrence had me on the wire to hear my report and
                        to say that Raynor had left Washington for a weekend in Virginia.
                    "That lets us out for a few days, but I'II have to report
                        that Mrs. Bashford is at Barton the moment I learn that he is back in
                        Washington."
                    I assured him that nothing had occurred to encourage a suspicion that Mrs.
                        Bashford was not all that she pretended to be. The day was marked by unusual
                        activities on the part of the waiters and bell-hops. Instead of the company
                        drills to which I had become accustomed they moved about in pairs along  the shore and the lines of the fences. I
                        learned that Antoine had ordered this, and the "troops"
                        were obeying him with the utmost seriousness. The
                        "service" on the estate was certainly abundant. It was
                        only necessary to whistle and one of the Tyringham veterans would come
                        running.
                    In spite of the complete satisfaction I had expressed to Torrence as to the
                        perfect integrity and honest intentions of the two women, the curiosity of
                        the American State Department and the visit of Montani required elucidation
                        beyond my powers. At dinner they were in the merriest humor. The
                        performances of the little army throughout the day had amused them greatly.
                    "How delightfully feudal!" exclaimed Alice.
                        "Really we should have a moat and drawbridge to make the thing
                        perfect. Constance and I are the best protected women in the
                        world!"
                    We extracted all the fun possible from the idea that the estate was under
                        siege; that Alice was the chatelaine of a beleaguered castle, and that
                        before help could reach us we were in danger of being starved out by  the enemy. They called into play the poetry
                        which had so roused Antoine's apprehensions, and their talk
                        bristled with quotations. Alice rose after the salad and repeated at least a
                        page of Malory, and the Knights of the Round Table having thus been
                        introduced, Mrs. Farnsworth recited several sonorous passages from
                        "The Idyls of the King." They flung lines from
                        Browning's "In a Balcony" at each other as though
                        they were improvising. The befuddlement of Antoine and the waiter who
                        assisted him added to the general joy. They undoubtedly thought the two
                        women quite out of their heads, and it was plain that I suffered greatly in
                        Antoine's estimation by my encouragement of this frivolity. Mrs.
                        Farnsworth walked majestically round the table and addressed to me the lines
                        from Macbeth beginning: 
                            "Glamis thou art, and Cawdor; and shalt be What thou art
                                promised,"
                         while Antoine clung to the sideboard listening with mouth open and eyes
                        rolling.
                    Later, in the living-room, Alice sang some old ballads. She was more adorable
                        than  ever at the piano. It was a happiness
                        beyond any in my experience of women to watch her, to note the play of light
                        upon her golden head, to yield to the spell of her voice. Ballads had never
                        been sung before with the charm and feeling she put into them; and after
                        ending with "Douglas, Douglas," she responded to my
                        importunity with "Ben Bolt," and then dashed into a
                        sparkling thing of Chopin's, played it brilliantly and rose,
                        laughingly mocking my applause.
                    I left the house like a man over whom an enchantment has been spoken and was
                        not pleased when Antoine blocked my path: "Pardon me,
                        sir."
                    "Bother my pardon; what's troubling you now?" I
                        demanded.
                    "It's nothing troubling me, sir; not particularly. If you
                        give me time, I think I'll grow used to the poetry talk and playing
                        at being queens. It's like children in a family I served once; an
                        English family, most respectable. But in a widow, sir"
                    "God knows we ought to be glad when grown-ups have the heart to play
                        at being children and can get away with it as beautifully  as those women do! What else is on your
                        mind?"
                    "It's about Elsie, sir." I groaned at the mention
                        of Flynn's German wife. "I'm sorry, sir; but I
                        thought I should report it. It was a man who came to see her this afternoon.
                        You was out for your walk, and Flynn had taken the ladies for a drive, so
                        Elsie was alone at the garage. This person rode in on the grocer's
                        truck from the village, which is how he got by the gate. As it happened,
                        Pierrehe was a waiter at the Tyringham, a Swiss, who understands Germanhad
                        gone into the garage for a nap; he's quite old, sir, and has his
                        snooze every afternoon."
                    "He's entitled to it," I remarked; "he
                        must be a thousand years old."
                    "From what he heard Pierre thought the man a spy, sir. He wanted
                        Elsie to steal something from the house, it was a fan he wanted her to take
                        most particular, and it was to be done soon, to-day if she could manage. It
                        was for the love of the Fatherland that he wanted her to do it. Did you
                        notice, sir, that Mrs. Bashford didn't have the fan to-night? Not
                        that one she carried last night."
                    
                    I had noticed that she had substituted a tiny Japanese fan for the one that
                        Montani had inspected so eagerly. When I spoke of the change she had said
                        the other was too precious for every-day use, and she meant to keep it
                        locked up.
                    "I hate to bother you, sir, knowing you"
                    The mention of the fan had brought me to an abrupt halt. I resented having
                        the thing thrust at me in the ecstatic mood in which I had left the house,
                        but the visit of the German-speaking stranger was serious, and Antoine knew
                        that his story had startled me. He told me further that the man had
                        carefully outlined to Elsie just how she could take advantage of her freedom
                        of the house to appropriate the fan when the ladies were out and the
                        servants off the second floor. She was to be paid for her assistance; two
                        hundred dollars had been promised; even more had been suggested. Elsie and
                        the stranger had left the garage and passed out of ear-shot before Elsie
                        fully consented; but Pierre had given Antoine the impression that she would
                        make the attempt.
                    "It was to be for the Kaiser, for Germany,"  declared Antoine bitterly. "And she
                        was to be careful about Flynn. I always thought Flynn was straightI did
                        indeed, sir!"
                    "I think Flynn and his wife are both honest, but we'll take
                        no chance. Warn the guards to be on the alert. We don't want Elsie
                        to get the idea that she's being watched; so tell the men to keep
                        away from the garage. I'll keep an eye on the Flynns. You go home
                        and go to bed. ..."
                    The deep calm of the country night had settled upon the shore, and the
                        Flynns' quarters were perfectly tranquil. It didn't seem
                        possible that an international episode was in process of incubation in that
                        quiet neighborhood. I began to think that the general distrust of the German
                        woman by her associates might be responsible for Pierre's story.
                        But, viewed in any light, I had a duty to perform. If Elsie had visited the
                        house and purloined the fan, she would be very likely to get rid of it as
                        quickly as possible, and I determined to keep watch. I drew the blinds, got
                        into my dressing-gown and, reinforcing the lampshade with a newspaper to
                        deaden the light, proceeded to read.
                    
                    It was on toward one o'clock and I was dozing when a sound roused
                        me. A door on the Flynn side of the hall creaked; there was silence, then I
                        heard furtive steps on the stair. I snapped out my light and peered out of
                        the window just as Elsie's robust figure disappeared into the
                        shadows. I was about to follow when the creaking of the Flynn door was
                        repeated. In a moment another peep through the shade showed me Flynn
                        himself, and he, too, quickly vanished. Here was a situation indeed! If
                        Elsie was keeping tryst with her co-conspirator of the afternoon and her
                        husband was spying upon her, a row of large proportions was likely to result
                        at any moment. I leaned from the window as far as I dared, and saw the woman
                        close to the wall at the farther end of the building. The scene was well set
                        for trouble, and I was wondering what I could do to avert a disturbance and
                        the exposure of the foolish woman when the whole matter was taken out of my
                        hands.
                    "You fool! You scoundrel!" she bellowed in German.
                        "That you should think me a plaything to commit a robbery for you!
                        That  I should steal from my mistress to
                        satisfy you, you piece of swine-flesh!"
                    I had often heard Elsie vocally disciplining her Irish husband and knew the
                        power of her lungs and the vigor of her invective, but she seemed bent upon
                        apprising the whole commonwealth of Connecticut of the fact that she was
                        vastly displeased with the person she was addressing, who was certainly not
                        Flynn. Amid sounds of a scuffle and the continuous outpouring of
                        billingsgate the light over the garage door flashed on suddenly and
                        disclosed Flynn in the act of precipitating himself into the fray. Elsie had
                        grasped, and was stoutly clinging to a tall man who was trying to free
                        himself of her muscular embrace. Her cries meanwhile included some of the
                        raciest terms in the German dictionary and othersmouthfuls of
                        frightfulnessthat I didn't recognize.
                    When I reached the open Flynn was dancing round the belligerents like an
                        excited boxer, occasionally springing in to land a blow; and all the while
                        Elsie continued to address her captive and the world at large in her native
                        tongue. Flynn was rather more  than sixty, and
                        Elsie was not much his junior, while the invader was young and agile. The
                        man had loosened one arm and drawn a revolver with which he was pounding
                        Elsie in the face. I knocked the gun from his hand with my walking-stick and
                        shouted to Elsie to let go of him. Her shouts had roused the guards and,
                        hearing answering cries and the beat of hurrying feet on the walks, he
                        redoubled his efforts to escape. I had hardly got my hands on him when with
                        a twist of his body he wrenched himself free and sped away in the darkness.
                    I hadn't gone far in pursuit of him before I tripped over the skirts
                        of my dressing-gown and fell into a bed of cannas. This would have been less
                        melancholy if Flynn, hard behind, hadn't stumbled over me and,
                        believing he had captured the enemy, gripped my legs until I could persuade
                        him to let go.
                    The lights now flared on all the walks and driveways, and Antoine was
                        bellowing orders to the guards to surround the sunken garden. I surmised
                        that the fugitive, surprised by the attack, had lost his bearings and was
                        now far from the boundary wall back of the garage  from which presumably he had entered the grounds. With the
                        Sound cutting off his exit beyond the residence, there was a fair chance of
                        catching him if Antoine's veterans were at all vigilant.
                    I found Antoine, armed with a club and swinging a lantern, majestically posed
                        at the nearer entrance to the garden. With a swallow-tail coat over his
                        night-shirt and his nightcap tipped over one ear, he was an enthralling
                        figure. As he strode toward me his slippers flapped weirdly upon the brick
                        walk. "There's somebody in the garden, sir," he
                        whispered huskily. "The troops has it surrounded." No
                        general in all history, reporting in some critical hour the disposition of
                        his army, could have been more composed.
                    "You have done well, Antoine. Shall you dig in until morning or go
                        over the top now?"
                    "As you say, sir. It's better you should take
                        charge."
                    I walked round the garden and found his men well distributed, but the old
                        fellows were exceedingly nervous. "It's a bit suspicious,
                             sir, that he broke for the
                        garden," remarked Antoine.
                    "He broke for the garden," I suggested, "because
                        his line of retreat was cut off and he had to go somewhere."
                    "It's queer, though, sir, when Dutch has been sleeping on
                        the long bench down there by the fountain. You know how we feel about him,
                        sir, he being of that race."
                    "Dutch told me he was camping in the tool-house," I
                        answered.
                    "The boys drove him out, sir, and he took to the garden."
                    "Nasty of the boys, I should say. If that interloper should murder
                        him"
                    A yell rose from the midst of the garden, followed by a crash and an instant
                        later by a splash that interrupted another yell. I snatched
                        Antoine's lantern and ran down the steps toward the scene of
                        commotion. When I reached the circular pool the jet was still playing gayly,
                        but the waters on one side were in furious agitation. Two men were rolling
                        and tumbling about as though bent upon drowning each other. I swung the
                        lantern over them just as Dutch got upon  his
                        feet, gripping his antagonist by the collar. He flung him backward over the
                        stone curbing of the pool and fell upon him in the walk with a swish of wet
                        garments. The guards from the outer edges of the garden had clambered down
                        and they gathered about us as I began questioning Dutch.
                    Dutch, undoubtedly enjoying his victorious encounter, was tearing open the
                        prostrate captive's collar to give him air and with his knees
                        clamping the man's body was disposed to delay the story of his
                        adventures to increase its dramatic effect.
                    "It happens this evenin'," he began, spouting
                        water, "that I seen Elsie, who's been sneakin' me
                        meals to the old stables, an' she says to me:
                        'Dutch,' she says, 'they's all
                        ag'in us here, callin' us Huns, an' we gotta show
                        'em we's good Americans,' she says. An'
                        she tole me a feller been to see 'er 'at wanted
                        'er to rob the house fer 'im, he thinkin'
                        'er likely to do ut fer love o' the Kaiser. She said as
                        'ow she'd nail 'im when he comes to-night to git
                        a fan she's promised to lift fer 'im. She said
                        that'd prove she wasn't no Dutchwoman and recommended if I
                        got the  chance to do the same. I thought
                        nothin' wuz goin' to happen an' wuz
                        sleepin' on me bench here in the garden when the hollerin'
                        at the garage woke me up. I sits quiet, listenin' an' this
                        guy drops into the garden an' wuz crawlin' past me bench
                        an' I pinches 'im. He wuz fer havin' a fight,
                        an' we knocks over one of the big urns an' lit in the
                        tank. He says it's a thousand bones an' ye turn me loose,
                        he says, an' I soused 'im ag'in fer
                        that."
                    The man was still choking from the sousings and Dutch turned him over and
                        pounded him vigorously on the back, assisted by Zimmerman, the obliging
                        valet, who had seized the occasion to show his hand on the side of the
                        Allies. "Shall I telephone for the Barton police, sir?"
                        asked Antoine with an extreme exaggeration of his professional manner.
                    This obviously was the thing to do, but I feigned not to hear the question
                        while I debated the matter. It was plain that many things relating to the
                        capture were veiled in mystery: that if Mrs. Bashford and her companion were
                        involved in an international tangle and had in their possession something
                        that vitally concerned the nations at war, 
                        common chivalry demanded that I handle the arrest of Montani's
                        agent in such manner as to shield them. I was thinking hard and in my
                        perplexity even considered sending a messenger for Torrence; but he was
                        already suspicious and would be very likely to summon Raynor immediately and
                        precipitate a crisis I was not prepared to face. To invite the attention of
                        the American State Department to the increasingly complex situation would
                        not be giving my aunt the chance I meant she should have to clear herself.
                    The captive had got upon his feet and stood dazedly staring at us. He refused
                        to answer my questions, even when I suggested that if he could give a
                        satisfactory account of himself he would be released. He only doggedly shook
                        his head. When I asked if he had been hurt in his bout with Dutch he smiled
                        and extended his arms in denial. He was a very decent-looking fellow,
                        blue-eyed and smooth-shaven, who seemed to accept his plight with a degree
                        of good humor.
                    I decided that as nothing would be gained by sending him to the Barton
                        calaboose that night, I would assume the responsibility of  detaining him until I had groped my way
                        through the haze of suspicions and circumstances that enveloped him.
                    "Get some dry clothes for this man and lock him up in the
                        tool-house. Be sure he has blankets, and you'd better give him some
                        hot coffee."
                    The captive manifested relief at my decision and broke his silence to thank
                        me, which he did in very good English. His submissiveness only deepened my
                        perplexity, but I couldn't help laughing as he walked away
                        surrounded by the "troops," with Dutch leading the
                        wayDutch fully conscious that he had vindicated himself and disposed to be
                        rather disdainful of his comrades.
                    I hurried to the house, where I found Alice and Mrs. Farnsworth ministering
                        to Elsie, who had been taken there by their order. Elsie, sharing with Dutch
                        the honors of the night, lay on a davenport, where she had received first
                        aid. Alice rose from her knees as I entered, gathering up strips of
                        bandages, and turned to me laughingly.
                    "Elsie's injuries are not serious; only disagreeable
                        bruises in the face. There will be  no scars,
                        I'm sure. We'll keep her at the house for a few days until
                        she's quite fit again. Surely any one who has questioned
                        Elsie's loyalty ought to be satisfied now."
                    "You certainly managed it very cleverly, Elsie. We're all
                        very grateful."
                    Elsie, her face covered with bandages, acknowledged my thanks by wiggling her
                        foot.
                    Mrs. Farnsworth said she would put Elsie to bed. Now, I thought, Alice would
                        make some sign if she knew anything that would explain Montani and the
                        prisoner in the tool-house. But the whole affair only moved her to laughter
                        and she seemed less a grown woman than ever in her white robe. My efforts to
                        impress her with the seriousness of the attempt to secure the fan only added
                        to her delight.
                    "How droll! How very droll! You couldn't possibly have
                        arranged anything that would please me more! It's delicious! As you
                        say in America, it's perfectly killing!"
                    I suggested that the holding of a prisoner without process of law might
                        present embarrassments.
                    
                    "I know," she cried, clapping her hands joyfully.
                        "You mean we are likely to bump into dear old habeas
                            corpus! The sheriff will come and read a solemn paper to you and
                        you will have to hie you to court and produce the body of the prisoner. That
                        will be splendid!"
                    "It won't be so funny if"
                    I was about to say that the humor of the thing would be spoiled somewhat if
                        she were made a witness and there proved to be something irregular about the
                        fan which had caused all the trouble, but I hadn't the heart to do
                        it. To spoil such merriment as bubbled in her heart would be cruelan
                        atrocity as base as snatching a plaything from a joyous child.
                    "Constance and I so love the unusual and it is so hard to
                        find!" she continued. "And yet from the moment I reached
                        the gates of these premises things have happened! Nothing is omitted!
                        Strange visitors; fierce attacks upon our guards, and still the mystery
                        deepens in the wee sma' hours, with heroes and heroines at every
                        turn! To think that that absurd little Dutch was asleep in  the garden and really captured the spy or
                        whatever he is! But you are a hero too! You shall be decorated!"
                    She walked to a stand and pondered a moment before a vase of roses, chose a
                        long-stemmed red one and struck me lightly across the shoulder with it.
                    "Arise, sir knight! You should have knelt, but to kneel in skirts
                        requires practice; you could hardly have managed in that monk's
                        robe."
                    I couldn't be sure whether she was mocking me or whether there was
                        really liking under this nonsense. I was beyond the point of being impatient
                        with her. I was helpless in her hands; she would do with me as she willed,
                        and it was my business to laugh with her, to meet her as best I could in the
                        realm of folly.
                    "You must go!" she exclaimed suddenly. "Constance
                        will be calling down the stairs for me in a moment."
                    "To-morrow" I began. The wistful look she had at times came
                        into her eyes as she stood in the centre of the room, playing with the
                        flower.
                    
                    "To-morrow," she repeated, "and then
                        to-morrow!"
                    "There must be endless to-morrows for you and me," I said,
                        and took the flower from her hand. The revery died in her eyes, and they
                        were awake with reproach and dismissal. At the door I looked back. She
                        hadn't moved and she said, very quietly, but smiling a little:
                        "Nothing must happen to make me sorry I came. Please
                        remember!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    PURSUING KNIGHTS
                    I DIDN'T sleep until near daybreak, and was aroused at nine
                        o'clock by Flynn, who appeared at the door in his
                        chauffeur's togs, carrying a tray.
                    "The wife didn't come back, sorr, but I made coffee and
                        toast. Sorry to waken you, but I'm takin' the new car into
                        the city."
                    I sat up and rubbed my eyes.
                    "Who's going to the city?" I demanded.
                    "The ladies is goin' at once, sorr. They sent orders an
                        hour ago to be ready with the new machine. Orders was to take my bag; It
                        looks like I'd be gone the night. I'm late and
                        you'll have to excuse me, sorr."
                    I sprang out of bed and plied him with questions, most of which he was unable
                        to answer. I did, however, extract from him the information that nothing had
                        occurred after I retired for the night that could have  alarmed the women at the residence and prompted this abrupt
                        departure. There was no reason why Alice shouldn't run to town if
                        it pleased her to do so, and yet it was odd that she hadn't
                        mentioned the matter. Flynn hurried away, and from the window I followed the
                        car's course to the house, and a moment later caught a glimpse of
                        it on its way to the gates.
                    I was shaving when Antoine appeared, pale from the stirring incidents of the
                        night.
                    "I suppose you know, sir," he said, straightening the
                        coffee-pot on the tray in an attempt to conceal his emotions.
                    "When did you first hear that the ladies meant to leave
                        to-day?" I shouted with a flourish of the razor. "If you
                        knew it last night and didn't tell me"
                    "I heard it, incidental-like, at breakfast this morning. There was a
                        night letter, sir, read by the agent at Barton to the mistress quite early,
                        sir. I can't tell you what it was, sir."
                    "Did they seem alarmed or depressed; was there anything to indicate
                        whether they had bad news?"
                    
                    "They seemed quite merry over it, sir. But you know their goings-on,
                        which I never understand, sir. For all I know it may be a death in the
                        family; you'd never tell it from their actions. You will pardon me
                        for remarking it again, sir; but, considering that they're ladies,
                        their actions and goings-on is most peculiar."
                    "As to luggage, I hope you had the intelligence to note whether they
                        went for a long stay?"
                    "Only the suitcases that fits into the rack of the machine. Louise
                        thought they might be going for a week, maybe."
                    This was all I got out of him. Mrs. Bashford and Mrs. Farnsworth had flown,
                        giving no hint of the length of their absence. They had slipped away and
                        left me with a prisoner that I didn't know what to do with; with an
                        inquiry by the American Department of State hanging over me; with Torrence
                        to reckon with, and, in general, a muddled head that only a vast number of
                        lucid explanations could restore to sanity.
                    I called from the window to one of the gardeners who knew how to manage a
                        machine  and told him to be ready to drive me
                        to the village in half an hour. There was an express at ten-forty, and by
                        taking it I would at least have the satisfaction of being somewhere in New
                        York when the runaways arrived. Antoine packed my suitcase; I am not sure
                        that he didn't shed tears on my belongings. The old fellow was awed
                        into silence by the rapidity with which history had been made in the past
                        twenty-four hours, and clearly was not pleased by my desertion.
                    We drove past the tool-house, where I found the prisoner seated on a
                        wheelbarrow smoking a cigarette. He was no more communicative than when I
                        had questioned him after his capture. He smiled in a bored fashion when I
                        asked if he wanted anything, and said he would be obliged for cigarettes and
                        reading-matter. He volunteered nothing as to his identity, and the guards
                        said that a thorough search of the captive's clothing had disclosed
                        nothing incriminating. He had three hundred dollars in currency (this was to
                        cover Elsie's bribe money, I conjectured), a handkerchief, a
                        cigarette-case, and a box of matches. I directed that he be well  fed and given all the reading-matter he
                        wanted, and hurried on to catch my train.
                    The futility of my errand struck me hard as I felt the city surging round me.
                        Without a clew to work on, I was utterly unlikely to find the two women, and
                        even if I should stumble upon them, in what way could I explain my conduct
                        in following them? I was visited also by the discouraging thought that New
                        York might not, after all, be their destination.
                    Flynn was a capable but cautious driver, and they would hardly reach town
                        before five o'clock. I took a room at the Thackeray Club and
                        pondered carefully whether, in spite of my misgivings, I hadn't
                        better see Torrence and tell him all that had happened since his call on
                        Mrs. Bashford. If there was any chance of doing the wrong thing in any
                        matter not prescribed in the laws governing the administration of estates,
                        he would be sure to do it; but I was far from satisfied with the results of
                        my own management of affairs at Barton. I finally called up the trust
                        company and learned that Torrence was in Albany attending the trial of a
                        will case and might not be in town for a couple  of days. His secretary said he had instructions to wire my daily report
                        to Albany. I told him there had been no developments at Barton, and went out
                        and walked the Avenue. Inquiries at hotels large and small occupied me until
                        seven o'clock. No one had heard of a Mrs. Bashford or a Mrs.
                        Farnsworth. My inspection of the occupants of several thousand automobiles
                        proved equally fruitless. I ate a lonely dinner at the club and resumed my
                        search. Hanging about theatre doors, staring at the crowd, is not a
                        dignified occupation, and by nine o'clock, having seen the most
                        belated theatre-goers vanish, I was tired and footsore. The flaming sign of
                        Searles's "Who Killed Cock Robin?" over the door
                        of the "As You Like It" caught my eye. I bought a seatthe
                        last in the rackand squeezed into my place in the middle of the last row. As
                        I had seen the piece at least a dozen times, its novelty was gone for me,
                        but the laughter of the delighted audience was cheering. The first act was
                        reaching its culmination, and I watched it with a glow of pride in Searles
                        and his skilful craftsmanship.
                    As the curtain fell and the lights went up 
                        amid murmurs of pleasure and expectancy, I glanced across the rows of heads
                        with awakened interest. "Who Killed Cock Robin?" had been
                        praised with such unanimity that if Alice were in any playhouse that night I
                        was as likely to see her in the "As You Like It" as
                        anywhere.
                    The half-turned face of a man three rows in front of me suddenly caught my
                        attention. There was something curiously familiar in his outlines and the
                        gesture with which at the moment, he was drawing his handkerchief across his
                        forehead. I judged that he too had come late, for he now removed his topcoat
                        and thrust his hat under the seat. It was Montanibeyond any question
                        Montaniand I instinctively shrank in my seat and lifted my programme as he
                        turned round and swiftly surveyed the rows behind him.
                    I watched his black head intently until I remembered the superstition that by
                        staring at a person in a public place you can make him look at you. Montani
                        knew a great many things I wanted to know, but I must have time to adjust
                        myself to the shock of his propinquity. I satisfied myself that he  was alone and as he continued to mop his face
                        I judged that he had arrived in some haste. The house now took note of a
                        stirring in one of the boxes. There was an excited buzz as the tall form and
                        unmistakable features of Cecil Arrowsmith, the English actor, were
                        recognized. I had read that day of his arrival in New York. With him were
                        two women. My breath came hard and I clutched the iron frame of the seat in
                        front of me so violently that its occupant turned and glared.
                    The trio settled into their places quickly, but not before I had satisfied
                        myself that Arrowsmith's companions were Alice and Mrs. Farnsworth.
                        As they fell into animated talk I saw that Alice was in her gayest humor.
                        The distinguished tragedian seemed greatly amused by what she was saying to
                        him.
                    "Must be members of Arrowsmith's company," one of
                        my neighbors remarked. "They open in two weeks in Shakespearian
                        repertoire."
                    Montani had half risen, the better to focus an opera-glass on the box. The
                        gong solemnly announced the second act, and Alice moved her chair to face
                        the stage. Once more Montani  scanned the
                        party with his glass. As the lights faded Alice, with the pretty languorous
                        gesture I so well remembered, opened her fanthe fan of ostrich plumes, that
                        became a blur of white that held my eye through the dusk after the curtain
                        rose.
                    Alice, Montani, and the fan! To this combination I had now to add the new
                        element introduced into the situation by the apparent familiar acquaintance
                        of Alice and Mrs. Farnsworth with Cecil Arrowsmith. And yet, as the play
                        proceeded on its swift-moving course, I reasoned that there was nothing
                        extraordinary in their knowing the eminent actor. He had long been a
                        personage in England and had lately been knighted. Their appearance with him
                        at the theatre really disposed of the idea that they might be impostors. The
                        presence of Arrowsmith had put zest into the company, and I hadn't
                        seen a better performance of Searles's play. The trio in the box
                        joined in the prolonged applause at the end of the act.
                    As they resumed their talk Alice, it seemed, was relating something of moment
                        for Arrow-smith's benefit, referring now and then to  Mrs. Farnsworth as though for corroboration.
                        The scene in the box was almost as interesting as any in the play, and the
                        audience watched with deep absorption. Alice, the least self-conscious of
                        mortals, was, I knew, utterly unaware of the curious gaze of the house;
                        whatever she was saying with an occasional gesture of her gloved hands or a
                        shrug of her shoulders possessed her completely. I thought she might be
                        telling Arrowsmith of her adventures at Barton; but the length of her
                        narrative was against this, and Arrowsmith's attitude was more that
                        of a critic appealed to for an opinion than of a polite listener to a story.
                        He nodded his head several times, and finally, as Alice, with a slight dip
                        of the head and an outward movement of her arms, settled back in her chair,
                        he patted his hands approvingly.
                    In my absorption I had forgotten Montani's existence, but as the
                        third act began I saw that he had gone. Whether I should put myself in
                        Alice's way as she left the theatre was still an undetermined
                        question when the play ended. With Montani hanging about I felt a certain
                        obligation to warn her that he  had been
                        watching her. I was among the first to leave, and in the foyer I met Forsy
                        the, house manager, who knew me as a friend of Searles.
                    "You notice that were still turning 'em away," he
                        remarked. "We don't have to worry about this piece;
                        everybody who sees it sends his friends the next day. Searles
                        hasn't looked in for some time; hope he's writing a new
                        play?"
                    "He's West visiting his folks. Don't know when
                        he'll be back," I answered. "I must write him
                        that Sir Cecil Arrowsmith enjoyed 'Who Killed Cock Robin?'
                        just as much as common mortals."
                    Forsythe had paused at the box-office, and in my uncertainty I stuck to him
                        as the crowd began to surge by.
                    Arrowsmith's approach was advertised by the peculiar type of tall
                        hat that he affected, and the departing audience made way for him, or hung
                        back to stare. At his left were Alice and Mrs. Farnsworth, and they must
                        pass quite close to me. "Who Killed Cock Robin?" was a
                        satisfying play that sent audiences away with lightened hearts and  smiling faces, and the trio were no exception
                        to the rule.
                    Listening inattentively to Forsythe, I was planning to join Alice when the
                        trio should reach me. She saw me; there was a fleeting flash of recognition
                        in her eyes, and then she turned toward Arrowsmith. She drew nearer; her
                        gaze met mine squarely, but now without a sign to indicate that she had ever
                        seen me before. She passed on, talking with greatest animation to
                        Arrowsmith.
                    "Well, remember me to Searles if you write him," I heard
                        Forsythe saying. I clutched his arm as he opened the office door.
                    "Who are those women?" I demanded.
                    "You may search me! I see you have a good eye. That girl's
                        rather nice to look at!"
                    Crowding my way to the open, I blocked the path of orderly, sane citizens
                        awaiting their machines until a policeman pushed me aside. Alice I saw for a
                        bewildering instant, framed in the window of a big limousine that rolled
                        away up-town.
                    I had been snubbed! No snub had ever been delivered more deliberately, with a
                        nicer calculation of effect, than that administered  to me by Alice Bashforda girl with whom, until a moment
                        before, I had believed myself on terms of cordial comradeship. She had cut
                        me; Alice who had asked me at the very beginning of our acquaintance to call
                        her by her first nameAlice had cut me without the quiver of a lash.
                    I walked to the Thackeray and settled my self in a dark corner of the
                        reading-room, thoroughly bruised in spirit. In my resentment I meditated
                        flying to Ohio to join Searles, always my chief resource in trouble. Affairs
                        at Barton might go to the devil. If Alice and her companion wanted to get
                        rid of me, I would not be sorry to be relieved of the responsibility I had
                        assumed in trying to protect them. With rising fury I reflected that by the
                        time they had shaken off Montani and got rid of the prisoner in the
                        tool-house they would think better of me.
                    "Telephone call, sir."
                    I followed the boy to the booth in a rage that any one should disturb my
                        gloomy reflection.
                    "Mr. Singleton? Oh! This is Alice speaking"
                    
                    I clutched the shelf for support. Not only was it Alice speaking, but in the
                        kindest voice imaginable. My anger passed, but my amazement at Alice and all
                        her ways blinded me. If she had suddenly stepped through the wall, my
                        surprise could not have been greater.
                    "You told me the Thackeray was your usual refuge in town, so I
                        thought I'd try it. Are you very, very cross? I'm sorry,
                        really I amBob!"
                    The "Bob" was added lingeringly, propitiatingly. Huddled in
                        the booth, I doubted my senseswondering indeed whether Alice hadn't
                        a doubleeven whether I hadn't dreamed everything that had occurred
                        at Barton.
                    "I wanted to speak to you ever so much at the theatre, but I
                        couldn't very well without introducing you to Sir Cecil, and I
                        wasn't ready to do that. It might have caused
                        complications."
                    If anything could have multiplied the existing complications, I was anxious
                        to know what they were; but her voice was so gentle, so wholly amiable, that
                        I restrained an impulse to demand explanations.
                    
                    "Are you on earth or are you speaking from paradise?" I
                        asked.
                    "Oh, were in a very nice house, Constance and I; and were just about
                        having a little supper. I wish you were here, but that can't be
                        arranged. No; really it can't! We shall be motoring back to Barton
                        to-morrow and hope you can join us. Let us have luncheon and motor up
                        together."
                    When I suggested that I call for them she laughed gayly.
                    "That would be telling things! And we mustn't spoil
                        everything when everything is going so beautifully."
                    Remembering the man I had locked up in the tool-house and the explanations I
                        should have to make sooner or later to the unimaginative Torrence, I
                        wasn't wholly convinced of the general beauty of the prospect
                    "Montani was in the theatre, " I suggested
                    Her laughter rippled merrily over the wire.
                    "Oh, he tried to follow us in a taxi! We had a great time throwing
                        him off in the park. I'm not sure he isn't sitting on the
                        curb right now watching the house ungraciously."
                    "You have the fan with you; Montani 
                        jumped right out of his seat when you opened in the theatre."
                    This she received with more laughter; Montani amused her immensely, she said.
                        She wasn't old the least afraid of him. Returning to the matter of
                        the luncheon, she suggested the Tyringham.
                    "You know, I want very much to see Mr. Bashford's old home
                        and the place all our veteran retainers came from. At one?yes. Good
                        night!" ...
                    Alice and Mrs. Farnsworth reached the Tyringham on time to the minute. As I
                        had spent the morning on a bench in the park, analyzing my problems, I found
                        their good humor a trifle jarring.
                    "You don't seem a bit glad to see us," Alice
                        complained as she drew off her gloves. "How can any one be anything
                        but happy after seeing that delicious 'Cock Robin'! It is
                        so deliciously droll."
                    "I haven't" I remarked with an attempt at
                        severity, "quite your knack of ignoring disagreeable facts. There
                        was Montani right in front of me, jumping like a jack-in-the-box every time
                        you flourished your fan.
                    
                    There's that fellow we've got locked up at Barton"
                    "Just here the man, Constance!" she interrupted with her
                        adorable laugh. "We were thinking that he was beginning to see
                        things our way, the only true way, the jolly way, and here he cometh like a
                        melancholy Jaques! We'll have none of it!"
                    "We must confess," said Mrs. Farnsworth conciliatingly,
                        "that Mr. Singleton is passing through a severe trial. We
                        precipitated ourselves upon him without warning, and immediately involved
                        him in a mesh of mystery. His imagination must have time to adjust
                        itself."
                    "Ah, the imagination!" sighed Alice with her wistful smile.
                        "How little patience the world has with anything but the soberest
                        facts! Why should we bother about that lunatic Montani or the gentleman
                        immured in the tool-house? I couldn't introduce you to Sir Cecil
                        without anticipating the end of our story; and I want you to keep wondering
                        and wondering about us. It's all so jolly! I love it all! And
                        really you wouldn't spoil it, Bob! It's dreadful to spoil
                        things."
                    
                    They were spoiling my appetite; I was perfectly aware of that. I had ordered
                        the best luncheon I knew how to compose, and they were doing full justice to
                        it; but I was acting, I knew, like a resentful boy.
                    "I love you that way," said Alice as I stared vacantly at
                        my plate. "But you really are not making yourself disagreeable to
                        usreally he is not, Constance!
                    Mrs. Farnsworth affirmed this. I knew that I was merely being rude, and the
                        consciousness of this was not uplifting. At the, luncheon hour the influx of
                        shoppers gives the Tyringham a cheery tone, and all about us were people
                        apparently conversing sanely and happily. The appearance of Uncle
                        Bash's ghost in the familiar dining-room would have been a welcome
                        diversion. I was speculating as to just what he would say about his widow
                        and the whole mess at Barton when Mrs. Farnsworth addressed me pleadingly.
                    "If you knew that we want you to play with us only a few days
                        longerthree days, shall we say, Alice?if you knew that then we'll
                        untangle everything, wouldn't you be nicevery nice?
                    
                    In spite of myself I couldn't resist this appeal. I was more and
                        more impressed by the fineness, the charm of Mrs. Farnsworth. When she
                        dropped the make-believe foolishness in which she indulged quite as
                        amusingly as Alice, she appeared to be a very sensible person. The humor
                        danced in her eyes now, but her glance was more than an appeal; it was a
                        command.
                    "If you knew that our troubles are not at all the troubles
                        you're thinking about, but very different"
                    "Please pardon me!" I muttered humbly, and wished that
                        Alice were not so bewitching in a sailor hat. It may have been the hat or
                        only Mrs. Farnsworth's pleading tone that brought me to a
                        friendlier attitude toward the universe and its visible inhabitants. The
                        crowd thinned out, but we lingered, talking of all manner of things.
                    "We must come in again very soon," said Alice.
                        "And next time we shan't run away, which was very naughty.
                        I suppose when you begin a story you just have to keep it going or it will
                        die on your hands. That's the way with our story, you know. Of
                        course  it's unkind to mystify you;
                        but you are in the story just as we are."
                    My mystification was certainly deep enough without this suggestion that I was
                        a mere character in a tale whose awkward beginning aroused only the gravest
                        apprehensions as to the conclusion. She looked at her watch and continued:
                    "I'm so absurdreally I am, in ever so many ways, that no
                        one would ever put me in a book. Every one would say no such person ever
                        existed! It's incredible! And so I have to pretend I'm in
                        a story all the time. It's the only way I can keep happy. And so
                        many people are in my story now, not only Montani and the poor fellow locked
                        up at Bartonoh, what if he should escape! Constance, it would be splendid if
                        he should escape!"
                    "I don't think it would be splendid if he
                        escaped!" I exclaimed, sitting up very straight at the bare thought
                        of such a calamity. "He would either kill me or sue me for
                        damages."
                    "Oh, that wouldn't fit into the story at all! Murder and
                        damages are so frightfully  sordid and
                        generally disagreeable. We must have nothing like that in our
                        story."
                    "You didn't finish your enumeration of
                        characters," I suggested. "Is my part an important one or
                        am I only a lay figure?"
                    "My dear boy," cried Mrs. Farnsworth, "you are the
                        hero! You have been the hero from the hour the story began. If you should
                        desert us now, whatever should we do!"
                    "If I'm the hero," I replied in her own key,
                        "I shall begin making love to Alice at once."
                    Alice, far from being disturbed by my declaration, nodded her head
                        approvingly.
                    "Oh, we had expected that! But you needn't be in a hurry.
                        In a story like this one, that runs right on from day to day, we must leave
                        a lot to chance. And there are ever so many chances
                    "Not all on the side of failure, I hope?
                    "We must be going." She laughed. I wished she
                        hadn't that characteristic little turn of the head that was so
                        beguiling!
                    Folly rode with us all the way to Barton. If anything sensible was uttered on
                        the drive, I can't recall it. Our talk, chiefly of knights  and ladies, and wild flights from imaginary
                        enemies, had the effect of spurring Flynn to perilous spurts of speed.
                    "Flynn has caught the spirit!" cried Alice exultingly.
                        "Haven't you Flynn?"
                    Flynn, turning to confirm this, caused the car to swerve and graze a truck
                        piled high with household goods.
                    "We may elude the pursuing knights," I suggested,
                        "but some village constable may take it into his head to pinch
                        us."
                    "Oh, that would be lovely," cried Alice.
                    "And we'd telegraph dear Mr. Torrence to come and bail us
                        out."
                    We reached Barton at nine o'clock and after an informal supper I
                        listened to Antone's solemn reports as I walked to the garage. The
                        prisoner had made no sign, he said, and nothing had occurred during the day.
                    "But there's this, Mr. Singleton, which you ought to know,
                        sir. The old Tyringham people don't like the goings on here.
                        You'll admit it's all mighty queer. I don't
                        complain, sir, but some of the boys threatens to leave, sir. And I look at
                        it this way, that  nobody understanding what
                        the spying and bribes offered and taking prisoners is all about, is most
                        peculiar. We got to know where we stand, that's what it's
                        come to, sir. And the widow being flighty-like and Flynn coming home and
                        saying nothing, but shaking his head when we ask him where he's
                        beenYou see for yourself, sir, how it looks to us."
                    What he said as to the general aspect of things was true, but I
                        didn't admit that it was true. Alice had converted me to the notion
                        that I was a character in a story, a plaything of fate, and I lightly
                        brushed aside Antonie's melancholy plaint.
                    "Any man of you," I said, "who leaves this
                        property will be brought back and shot. Tell that to the boys!"
                    Nevertheless, the perfect equanimity of the gentleman in the tool-house when
                        I visited him the next morning shook my faith a trifle in the story-book
                        features of life at Barton. He was an exemplary prisoner, the guards
                        reported, and he had maintained the strictest silence in my absence. He ate,
                        smoked, and read, courteously thanking the men for their  attentions, and that was all. When I showed
                        myself at the window he rose and threw down the magazine he was reading and
                        replied good-naturedly to my inquiry as to how he was getting along.
                    "I have no complaint except that the guards snore outrageously. The
                        poor old chaps will sleep, you know."
                    "If you're so badly guarded, why don't you
                        escape?" I asked tartly.
                    "It would relieve your mind a lot if I should disappear?"
                        he asked insinuatingly.
                    "You are impertinent," I replied, irritated that he should
                        have surmised that his presence was causing me uneasiness. "If you
                        will come to your senses and tell me the meaning of your visits here, we may
                        agree upon terms. As it stands, you're a trespasser; you tried to
                        bride a servant to rob the house. If you're at all familiar with
                        criminal law in this country, you can estimate the number of years'
                        imprisonment that will be handed you for these little
                        indiscretions."
                    "If it's all so plain, why don't you hand me over
                        to the authorities?" he asked, provokingly cool.
                    
                    "I'm giving you a chance to confess and tell who's
                        back of all this. Tell me just why your confederate Montani is annoying Mrs.
                        Bashford, and I'll turn you loose."
                    "Perhaps, my dear sir, the motive that impels you to detain me
                        unlawfully is the same that enjoins silence upon me! Please consider that a
                        little."
                    I replied that I would consider nothing short of a confession. In a match of
                        wits he was fully my equal, and in the mastery of his temper he certainly
                        had the best of me.
                    "If you wait for me to confess anything, you will wait
                        forever," he replied. "I repeat that we are impelled by
                        the same motives, you and I. I think I needn't enlighten you as to
                        what they are."
                    "I shall be glad to hear your idea of my motives," I
                        answered feebly.
                    "I shall be frank," he replied readily.
                    The reason you don't turn me over to the police is the very simple
                        one that you don't want to embarrass the mistress of the house
                        yonder by causing the light of publicity to beat upon her very charming
                        head. You  wish to save her annoyance, and
                        possibly something much graver. I can see that you are impressed; but it
                        ought to please you to know that I share your feeling of delicacy where she
                        is concerned. And let me add that the Count Montani is animated by like
                        feeling. So there we are, exactly on the same ground!
                    "You haven't answered my questions!" I blustered
                        to hide my annoyance at being thrust further into the dark. "You
                        don't understand Mrs. Bashford," I went on hurriedly.
                        "It is inconceivable that any one should wish to injure her or that
                        she could have committed any act that would cause her to be spied upon.
                        She's tremendously imaginative; she indulges in little fancies that
                        are a part of her charm!"
                    "Little fancies!" he repeated, hiding a yawn.
                        "It's deplorable for a pretty woman to have an
                        imagination; there's danger there!"
                    "Your philosophy bores me," I said, and left him. He had
                        lied about the snoring of the guardsAntoine satisfied me of thatbut I gave
                        instructions to double the watch.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    ALICE
                    I WANTED to be alone and struck off for a wood that lay on the northern end
                        of the estate. This was the most picturesque spot on the property, a wild
                        confusion of trees and boulders. On a summit in the midst of it Uncle Bash
                        had built a platform round a majestic pine from which to view the Sound. I
                        mounted the ladder and was brushing the dead leaves from the bench when,
                        somewhere below me and farther on, I heard voices.
                    I flattened myself on the platform, listening intently. A stiff breeze from
                        the Sound flung the voices clearly to my hiding-place, and I became aware
                        that Alice and Mrs. Farnsworth were holding a colloquy in what seemed to be
                        the vein of their whimsical make-believe. That they should be doing this in
                        the depth of the woodland merely for their own amusement did not surprise me
                             nothing they could have done would have
                        astonished mebut the tone of their talk changed abruptly.
                    "Try it from that boulder there, Alice," said Mrs.
                        Farnsworth. "It's an ideal place, created for the very
                        purpose."
                    I could see them moving about and hear the swish of shrubbery and the
                        scraping of their feet on the rough slope.
                    "How will that do?" asked Alice.
                    "Beautifully," replied Mrs. Farnsworth. "Now go
                        ahead from the beginning of the scene"
                    Cautiously drawing back the branches, I espied Alice striking a pose on a
                        mammoth rock. She bent forward, clasping her knees, and with an occasional
                        glance at what appeared to be an open book beside her, she began:
                    "You ask me who I am, my lord? It matters not at all who or what I
                        am; let it suffice that berries are my food and the brook that sings behind
                        me gives me drink. To be one thing or another is a weariness. Would you ask
                        yonder oak for a name, or trouble the wind with like foolish questions? No;
                             it is enough that a tree is strong and
                        fine to look upon and that a wind has healing in its wings."
                    With her head to one side and an arresting gesture, and throwing into her
                        voice all its charm and a new compelling innocence and sweetness, she
                        continued:
                    "But you would have a name? Then, O foolish one, so much I will tell
                        you: Yesterday I was Helen, who launched a thousand ships and shook the
                        topless towers of Ilium. To-day I am Rosalind in the forest of Arden, and
                        to-morrow I may be Antigone, or Ariel or Viola, or what you will. I am what
                        I make myself or choose to be. I pray you, let that suffice."
                    My face was wet with perspiration, and my heart thumped wildly. For either I
                        was stark, staring mad, or these were lines from Searles's
                        "Lady Larkspur," the manuscript of which was carefully
                        locked in my trunk.
                    "That should be spoken a trifle more slowly, and with the best air
                        of unpremeditatedness you can put into it," Mrs. Farnsworth was
                        saying. "You can work it out better when you've memorized
                        the lines. It's  immensely effective
                        having the last scene come back to the big boulder on the mountainside. Let
                        me look at that a minute."
                    She took up the manuscriptthere was no question of the blue cover of my copy
                        of "Lady Larkspur"and turned to the passage she sought.
                    "Let me read this over," Mrs. Farnsworth continued:
                        "I have played, my lord, at hide-and-seek with the stars, and I
                        have run races with the brooks. You alone of all that have sought me are
                        equally fleet of foot and heart! If you but touch my hand, I am lost
                        forever. And this handI beg you look at itis as brown as a berry and as
                        rough as hickory bark. A wild little hand and not lightly to be yielded at
                        any man's behest. Look at me carefully, my lord.' She
                        rises to full height quickly. Let me see you do that, Alice."
                    Alice's golden head became more distinctively visible as she stood
                        erect upon the boulder."
                    Oh, no! You can improve on that; it must be done lightly and quickly, just
                        touching the tips of your fingers to the rock. Ah,  splendid! Now stand with one hand dropped upon the hiplet me
                        see how that looks. Very good; now repeat these lines after me.
                        'This other world, of which you speak?' Shake your head
                        slowly, frowning; every hint of sincere doubt and questioning you can throw
                        into look and gesture, 'Is it a kind world, a place of honest
                        hearts? You have spoken of cities, and crowded avenues, of music and
                        theatres and many things I have read of but never seen. You promise me much,
                        but what should I do in so vast a company? I am very happy here. Spring and
                        summer fill my hands with flowers and in winter I lay my face to the wind
                        that carries sleet and snow. All this is mine.' Arms stretched out.
                        You mustn't make that stiff very good. 'Earth and sky and
                        forest belong to me. The morning comes down the sky in search of me and the
                        tired day bids me good-night at the western gate. You would change rags for
                        silk.' You turn your body and catch your skirt in your hands,
                        looking down. Yes; you are barefoot in this scene. You'll have to
                        practise that turn. Now 'And yet I should lose my dominion; in that
                             world you boast of I should no more be
                        Lady Larkspur.'"
                    Alice had repeated these lines, testing and trying different modulations.
                        Sometimes a dozen repetitions hardly sufficed to satisfy Mrs. Farnsworth,
                        who herself recited them and postured for Alice's instruction.
                    "Please read the whole of the second act again," said
                        Alice, seating herself on the boulder. I waited for a few minutes, enjoying
                        the beautiful flow of Mrs. Farnsworth's voice, then, mystified and
                        awed, I crept down the ladder and stole away. "It's Dick
                        Searles's play," I kept whispering to myself. It was the
                        "Lady Larkspur" that he was holding back until he could
                        find the girl who had so enchanted him in London and for whom he had written
                        this very comedy with its setting in the Virginia hills.
                    Hurrying to the garage, I snarled at Flynn, who said Torrence had been
                        calling me all morning and had finally left word that he would motor to
                        Barton at eight the next evening to see me on urgent business. I unlocked my
                        trunk and dug out my copy of "Lady Larkspur." Not even the
                        wizardry  of Alice and her friend could have
                        extracted the script. The two women had in some way possessed themselves of
                        another copy, an exact duplicate, even to its blue paper cover; and I sat
                        down and began recalling everything Searles had told me about his efforts to
                        find the actress
                    The telephone on the table at my elbow rang until Flynn came in timidly to
                        quiet it.
                    "If it's Mr. Torrence" I began.
                    "It's the Barton station, sir. There's a
                        telegram." I snatched the receiver spitefully, thinking it only the
                        methodical Torrence confirming the appointment made by telephone. But the
                        operator began reading: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        "SPRINGFIELD, OHIO,
                                            September 30, 1917.
                                        
                                        "Cable from London agent says last forwarding
                                            address for Violet Dewing was hotel in Seattle. Please
                                            ask Harkaway & Stein and anybody else on
                                            Broadway who might know what companies are on coast or
                                            headed that way. I find no clew in theatrical papers and
                                            don't want to mess things by making inquiries
                                            direct. If party can be located, will start West
                                            immediately.
                                        
                                            "SEARLES."
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                    
                    
                    The thought of Searles was comforting, and I reproached myself for not having
                        summoned him at the beginning of my perplexities. I immediately dictated
                        this reply:
                    "Take first train East and come to me at Barton as quickly as
                        possible. Hope to have news for you."
                    I then jotted down on a scratch pad this memorandum:
                    "The young woman representing herself as Mrs. Bashford and now
                        established in my uncle's house is one or all of the following
                        persons: 
                            "1. Uncle Bash's widow.
                            "2. An impostor.
                            "3. A spy of some sort, pursued by secret agents.
                            "4. Violet Dewing, an actress.
                            "5. The most interesting and the loveliest and most
                                charming girl in the world."
                        
                    
                    I checked off one, two, and three as doubtful if not incredible; four seemed
                        possible, and five was wholly incontrovertible. But the first three
                        certainly required much illumination, and the fourth I was helpless to
                        reconcile with any of the others but the last. I reviewed Searles's
                        enthusiastic description  of the young woman
                        who had inspired him to write "Lady Larkspur," and could
                        only excuse my stupidity in not fitting it to Alice the first time I saw her
                        on the ground that Barton was the last place in the world I should have
                        looked for her. And then, with all his exuberance, Searles hadn't
                        done her justice!
                    The following day nothing of importance happened, though Alice and Mrs.
                        Farnsworth again spent the morning in the woodland, presumably studying
                        Searles's play. My thoughts galloped through my head in a definite
                        formula: "If she is not my aunt" "If she is an
                        impostor" "If she is a spy playing a deep game in the
                        seclusion of Barton" "If she is the actress Searles is
                        seeking" At any rate, I would respect her wish to play the game
                        through; the dangers of carrying the story-book idea to one of half a dozen
                        possible conclusions were not inconsiderable, but I was resolved that she
                        should finish the tale in her own fashion.
                    On my way to luncheon I passed Dutch pushing a wheelbarrow containing a huge
                        hamper.
                    "It's vittles for the prisoner, sir," he remarked.
                             "He's some feeder, that
                        guy, and I guess the sooner we shake 'im th' better. He
                        kicks on th' wine, sir. Says it's questionable vintage.
                        When he gets tired readin' he pokes his head through the window and
                        kids th' boys. He says he's goin' to remember
                        th' place and come back when he's old. A charmin'
                        retreat fer supernumerary superannuates, he calls it. Them's his
                        woids. I'm gittin' sort o' nervous
                        havin' 'im round. Zimmermanhe's the
                        clothes-pressertried to talk Goiman to 'im this mornin'
                        an' th' guy pretended like his feelin's wuz hoit,
                        an' he never knowed th' Hun's language, he says.
                        An' Elsie says she's prepared to swear he talked Goiman
                        easy enough to her."
                    "We'll consider his case later, Dutch. The matter is
                        delicate, most delicate."
                    If I had expected Searles and his play to be introduced into the table-talk,
                        I was doomed to disappointment. A dozen times I smothered an impulse to tell
                        Alice and Mrs. Farnsworth I had watched them in the woodland and of
                        Searles's long search for the ideal of his "Lady
                        Larkspur," but I was afraid to risk their displeasure. They enjoyed
                        walking  in the wood, they said, and when I
                        charged them with selfishness in not taking me along, Alice immediately
                        suggested a tramp later in the afternoon.
                    "I'll send you away after luncheonI have loads of letters
                        to write, but by four o'clock I'll be keen for the woods
                        again."
                    "Letters to all my good fairies," she laughed when I went
                        for her; "and you mustn't look at the addresses!"
                        She suggested that we walk to the village as she liked to post her letters
                        herself. We went through the woods where I had seen her the day before.
                    "Constance and I were here this morning," she said when we
                        reached the big boulder. "Let me see; I think I'll try a
                        little trick to test the hand of fate. Give me those letters, please. If
                        this falls with the address up, I'll mail it," and she
                        chose one and handed me the others; "if the flap side turns up,
                        I'll destroy it."
                    She sent it spinning into the air. A branch caught and held it an instant,
                        then it fell, turning over and over, and lay straight on edge against a
                        weed.
                    
                    "No decision!" I cried. "It's an exact
                        perpendicular."
                    She knelt beside it, pondering. "I think it leans just a trifle to
                        the address side," she announced. "Therefore you may
                        return it to your pocket and it goes into the post-office."
                    "These letters would probably answer a lot of questions for me if I
                        dared run away with them," I suggested.
                    "The thought does you no credit, sir. You promised not to meddle,
                        but just to let things take their course, and I must say that you are
                        constantly improving. At times you grow suspiciousyes, you know you dobut,
                        take it all it all, you do very well."
                    At the post-office she dropped all the letters but one into the chute.
                        "It really did fall a little to the address
                        side?" she questioned.
                    I gave my judgment that the letter stood straight on edge, inclining neither
                        way.
                    "If my life hung in the balance, I should certainly not act where
                        fate had been so timid."
                    "Perhaps this does affect you," she said,
                        quite soberly. And there in the lobby of  the
                        little Barton post-office, for the first time, I indulged the hope that
                        there was something more than friendliness and kindness in her eyes. Her
                        usual composure was gonefor a moment onlyand she fingered the envelope
                        nervously in her slim, expressive hands. A young woman clerk thrust her head
                        through the delivery window and manifested a profound interest in our
                        colloquy.
                    "Suppose," said Alice musingly, "I were to tell
                        you that if I mail this letter the effect will be to detain me in America
                        for some time; if I don't send it, I shall have to write another
                        that will mean that I shall go very soon. If I stay on at Barton instead of
                        going home to take up my little part again for England in the war, it will
                        be an act of selfishnessjust some more of my foolishness, more of the
                        make-believe life that Constance and I have been living here."
                    "I want you to stay," I said earnestly, taking the letter.
                        "Let me be your fate in thisin everything that affects your life
                        forever."
                    She walked quickly to the door, and I dropped the letter into the chute and
                        hurried after her.
                    
                    "You didn't turn round," I said as we started down
                        the street. "For all you know, I've got the letter in my
                        pocket."
                    "Oh, I'm not a bit frightened! It would be just as
                        interesting one way as another."
                    "But I want you to stay forever," I declared as we waited
                        on the curb for a truck to pass.
                    "The remark is almost impertinent," she answered,
                        "when I've known you only seven days."
                    "They've been wonderful days. It really makes no difference
                        about letters or your duties elsewhere. Where you go I shall certainly
                        follow; that's something I should like to have understood here and
                        now."
                    Loitering along the beach on our way home, I was guiltily conscious that I
                        was making love rather ardently to a lady who had introduced herself to me
                        as my uncle's window. The sensation was, on the whole, very
                        agreeable. ...
                    "Mr. Torrence and Mr. Raynor," Antoine announced as we were
                        leaving the dinner-table.
                    "Mr. Raynor?" asked Alice. "Who, pray, is Mr.
                        Raynor?"
                    
                    Their arrival together chilled me, a chill increased by Torrence's
                        frosty greeting as he gripped my hand angrily and hissed in my ear:
                    "You've deceived me about this whole business! I suggest
                        that you leave the room."
                    I was walking toward the door when Mrs. Farnsworth protested.
                    "You are not going? Alice, there is no reason why Mr. Singleton
                        should leave us."
                    "Of course he is not going," said Alice. She was
                        established at ease in a wicker rocker, unconcernedly plying the
                        ostrich-plume fan.
                    "There may be matters" began Torrence.
                    "Oh, nothing that Bob can't hear!" Alice declared.
                    "Very well," muttered Torrence, frowning his complete
                        disapproval.
                    He fidgeted for a moment and tried to catch Raynor's eye, but
                        Raynor's face expressed amusement. I found myself liking Raynor
                        very much.
                    "Mr. Raynor told me that he wished to speak to Mrs. Bashford
                        privately," said  Torrence.
                        "If he's satisfied, I'm sure I have no objection
                        to Mr. Singleton's remaining. I regret that my own duty is a
                        disagreeable one."
                    "Really!" murmured Alice with nicely shaded impudence.
                    "I am convinced, beyond any question," said Torrence
                        sharply, "that you are not the widow of the late Raymond B.
                        Bashford!"
                    "That statement," said Alice without ceasing the languid
                        flutter of the fan, "is correctquite correct."
                    "Certainly: it is entirely true," affirmed Mrs. Farnsworth.
                    "And your coming here as you did is, if you will pardon my
                        frankness, susceptible of very disagreeable constructions. It is my painful
                        duty"
                    He choked upon his duty until Raynor spoke, smiling broadly.
                    "I find my duty really a privilege," he said. "Not
                        only are you not Mrs. Bashford," he went on with the utmost good
                        humor, "but you are a very different person. I should explain that
                        I represent the American  State Department,
                        and that our government has been asked by the British Embassy to find you
                        and deliver a certain message to you."
                    "Oh, papa wants me to come home!" cried Alice.
                        "It's droll, Constance, that papa should have thought of
                        making an affair of state of us. Dear papa will always indulge me just so
                        far, and then he becomes alarmed."
                    "He's certainly alarmed now!" laughed Raynor.
                        "But the ambassador has warned us to be most tactful and
                        circumspect. You may not know that Sir Arnold Seabring is on his way to this
                        country on a confidential mission. That, of course, is not for
                        publication."
                    "Sir Arnold Seabring?" gasped Torrence.
                    "The father of the Honorable Miss Seabring," replied Raynor
                        with an elucidating nod toward Alice.
                    "But how" I began.
                    "Mrs. Bashford, the widow of your uncle, is the Honorable Miss
                        Seabring's aunt. Is that quite correct?"
                    "It is all true," said Alice. "I am a fraud,  an impostor. You might go on and say that
                        Mrs. Farnsworth is the wife of Sir Cecil Arrowsmith. But all the guilt is
                        mine. It was my idea to come here and play a little, because I knew Aunt
                        Alice wouldn't mind. She knew just what I meant to do; really she
                        did, Mr. Torrence! In fact, I have her written permission to use the house,
                        which I should have shown you if we had got in a pinch. But it seemed so
                        much more fun just to let matters take their course. It's a pet
                        theory of mine that life is a dull affair unless we trust to luck a little.
                        After my brother's death I was very unhappy and had gone out East
                        to visit Aunt Alice, who is a great roamer. I thought it would be nice to
                        stop here on the way home, just for a lark, without telling papa, who was
                        frantically cabling me to hurry back to England. This isn't the
                        first time I've played hide-and-seek with my family. I was always
                        doing that as a child; and if it hadn't been for my general
                        waywardness I should never have known you, Constance. Why, I
                        shouldn't have known you, gentlemen! It has all been so
                        delightful!"
                    This nave confession amused Raynor  greatly,
                        but Torrence was seeing nothing in it but a dangerous escapade.
                    "In the name of the Bainbridge Trust Company, I must notify
                        you," he began, "that by representing yourself as another
                        person, entering into possession of a large property"
                    "But we've been paying all our own expenses; we
                        haven't taken any money from you," pleaded Alice.
                    "Of course you wouldn't do such a thing," affirmed
                        Raynor. "My instructions are to give you any sum of money you ask.
                        In fact, the Government of the United States is instructed to assume full
                        responsibility for you until your father arrives. May I go on and clarify
                        matters for these gentlemen, for Mr. Torrence at least is entitled to a full
                        explanation?"
                    "Constance," said Alice, turning with a little shrug to her
                        friend, "we have been caught! Our story is being spoiled for us.
                        Please go on, Mr. Raynor. Just what does the American State Department have
                        to say about us?"
                    "That you are endowed with a very unusual  personality," continued Raynor, his eyes twinkling.
                        "You are not at all content to remain in that station of life to
                        which you were born; you like playing at being all sorts of other persons.
                        Once, so your friend the ambassador confided to me, you ran away and
                        followed a band of gypsies, which must have been when you were a very little
                        girl."
                    "I was seven," said Alice, "and the gypsies were
                        nice to me."
                    "And then you showed talent for the stage"
                    "A dreadful revelation!" she exclaimed.
                    "But you don't know that it was really your father who
                        managed to have Mrs. Farnsworth, one of the most distinguished actresses in
                        England, take charge of you."
                    "No! Alice never knew that!" said Mrs. Farnsworth,
                        laughing. "I was her chaperon as well as her preceptress; but
                        Alice's father knew that if Alice found it out it would spoil the
                        adventure for her. Alice must do things in her own way."
                    "You are a fraud," said Alice, "but I always
                        suspected you a little."
                    "Speaking of the stage," resumed Raynor,  "it is also a part of my
                        instructions that the Honorable Miss Seabring shall be discouraged from any
                        further adventures in that direction; she's far too talented;
                        there's danger of her becoming a great luminary. In other words,
                        she is not to grace the boards again as Violet Dewing."
                    Alice's brow clouded, and she turned to me. "That was
                        settled when you mailed that letter for me. It was to make an appointment
                        with an American playwright who wants me to appear in a most adorable
                        comedy."
                    "His name is Dick Searles," I said, "and
                        he's my most intimate friend."
                    She professed indignation when I told of my eavesdropping in the woods, but
                        when I explained that I knew all about the play and Searles's
                        despairing search for her she was enormously pleased.
                    "How wonderful!" she exclaimed. "You know I told
                        you, Constance, that if we really threw ourselves in the path of adventure
                        mystery would come out to meet us in silken sandals."
                    "But you will not appear in this play?"  asked Raynor anxiously. "It is the
                        business of the Government of the United States to see that you commit no
                        further indiscretions. There is another matter which I hope you can clear
                        up. You are not only a subject of concern to the British Embassy, but the
                        French ambassador also has appealed to us to assist him in a trifling
                        matter!"
                    "The French ambassador?" Alice exclaimed with a surprise I
                        knew to be unfeigned.
                    "I thought the dear Montani was an Italian?"
                    "We will continue to call him Montani, but he's a Frenchman
                        and one of the keenest men in the French Secret Service. You have caused him
                        the deepest anguish."
                    "Please hurry on!" She bent forward with childish delight.
                        "This is a part of the story we've been living that I
                        really know nothing about. I hope it won't be
                        disappointing!"
                    Raynor laughed and shook his head.
                    "It's fortunate that Montani is a gentleman, anxious to
                        shield and protect you. You have a fan in your hand"
                    She spread it for our inspection.
                    
                    "A harmless trinket, but without it the adventure would have been
                        very tame."
                    "The story of the fan is in the most secret archives of Paris and
                        Washington. When you were packing up in Tokyo to come home on the very last
                        day before your departure a lady called on you whom you knew as Madame
                        Volkoff."
                    "That dear woman!" exclaimed Mrs. Farnsworth. "We
                        knew her very well."
                    "Almost too well," cried Raynor. "A cultivated
                        woman and exceedingly clever, but a German spy. She had collected some most
                        interesting data with reference to Japanese armament and defenses, but
                        suspecting that she was being watched, she hit upon a most ingenious way of
                        getting the information across the Pacific, expecting to communicate with
                        German agents in America who could pick it up and pass it on to Berlin. You
                        see, she thought you an easy mark. She got hold of a fan which Montani
                        informs me is the exact counterpart of that one you hold. She reduced her
                        data to the smallest possible compass, concealed it in her fan, and watched
                        for a chance to exchange with you. The  astute
                        Montani found the Japanese artisan who had done the tinkering for her and
                        surmised that you were to be made the unconscious bearer of the
                        incriminating papers. Montani jumped for the steamer you were sailing on
                        with every determination to get the fan. His professional pride was aroused,
                        and it was only after he found it impossible to steal the fan that he asked
                        our assistance. He's a good fellow, a gentleman in every sense, and
                        with true French chivalry wanted to do the job without disturbing you in any
                        way."
                    We pressed closer about Raynor as he took the fan, spread it open, and held
                        it close against a table-lamp. "The third, sixth, and
                        ninth," he counted. "You will notice that those three
                        pieces of ivory are a trifle thicker and not as transparent as the others.
                        Glancing at them casually in an ordinary light, you would never suspect that
                        they had been hollowed out, an exceedingly delicate piece of work.
                        It's a pity to spoil anything so pretty, but"
                    He snapped the top of one of the panels, disclosing a neatly folded piece of
                        thin paper.
                    
                    "If you are all satisfied, I will not go further. I want to deliver
                        this to the French Embassy intact. I expect Montani here to-night; he will
                        no doubt be enormously relieved."
                    A machine whizzed into the driveway, and Montani came in brushing past the
                        astonished Antoine, who had answered the bell.
                    "The fan is safe," cried Raynor; "you may complete
                        the identification."
                    "I've handled this whole affair most stupidly,"
                        said Montani after a hurried examination. "I'm satisfied
                        that a German agent in America has picked up the trail of the fan. One or
                        two lines of my own communications failed to work, and after reporting the
                        whole matter to the French Embassy I began searching for a man, the most
                        dangerous of all the German spies, who had been intrusted with the business
                        of recovering Madame Volkoff's fan and passing the contents on to
                        Berlin. This person has been representing himself as a French secret agent;
                        he's enormously plausible. I feared he might attempt what I failed
                        to do. If"
                    Alice glanced at me, and I stepped to the wall and punched the button.
                    
                    "Antoni," I said, "tie the arms of the prisoner in
                        the tool-house and bring him here."
                    "A man in the tool-house!" Montani, Torrence, and Raynor
                        ejaculated in concert.
                    "Oh, yes," murmured Alice, "that's the
                        pleasantest chapter of all. Our grenadiers captured a whole invading army
                        that made a night attackone of the most remarkable engagements of the
                        present war, Mr. Torrence."
                    "The battle of the Bell-Hops," I suggested. "The
                        prisoner will be here in a moment."
                    While we waited Montani produced a photograph, instantly recognizable as a
                        likeness of our prisoner.
                    "My reputation is saved!" he exclaimed excitedly.
                        "That he should have been caught here! It is too much! I shall
                        never forgive myself for not warning you of the danger. But you understand,
                        mesdames, that I was sincerely anxious to recover the fan without letting
                        you know its importance. When I found at Seattle and Chicago that you were
                        travelling under assumed names, I was pray, pardon medeeply puzzled, the
                        more  so because I had satisfied myself in
                        Tokyo that you were loyal Englishwomen, and I believed you to be innocent of
                        complicity with Madame Volkoff. Why you should have changed your names, I
                        didn't know, but it's not my affair now."
                    "We saw you on the steamer and again in the hotel at Chicago. It was
                        very amusing to be followed. We gave you the slip, stopped at Buffalo to see
                        Niagara, and you came on here and scared the servants to death! But you were
                        generous at every point," said Alice. "We changed our
                        names so we could amuse ourselves hereat Bob's expense. So now I
                        ask everybody's forgiveness!"
                    The prisoner, arriving at this moment, became the centre of interest. Without
                        a word Montani walked up to him, brushed back his hair, and called our
                        attention to a scar on the crown of his head.
                    "There can be no mistake. This is Adolph Schwenger, who passes as
                        readily for a Frenchman as I do for an Italian. The capture is of great
                        importance. I shall want the names of all the persons who assisted in the
                        matter."
                    
                    "It isn't quite clear to me," remarked Raynor,
                        turning to me, "why you held that fellow and said nothing about it.
                        If there had been a mistake, it would have been just a little embarrassing
                        for you, Singleton."
                    "Chivalry!" Mrs. Farnsworth answered for me. "An
                        anxious concern for the peace and dignity of two foolish women! I
                        didn't know there was so much chivalry left in the world."
                    An hour was spent in explanations, and Raynor declared that I must write a
                        full account of the Allied army in Connecticut and the capture of the spy.
                        The State archives contained nothing that touched this episode for piquancy,
                        he declared; and even the bewildered Torrence finally saw the joke of the
                        thing and became quite human.
                    Raynor and Montani decided after a conference that the German agent should be
                        taken to New York immediately, and I called Flynn to drive them down.
                    "It's most fortunate, sir, that you sent for him just when
                        you did!" announced Antoine, nearly bursting with importance.
                        "The boys had heard queer sounds in the night,  but could find nothing wrong. The prisoner had taken up the
                        flooring at the back of the tool-house, and was scooping up the dirt.
                        He'd got a place pretty near big enough to let him through. I
                        suppose we ought to have noticed it, sir."
                    "You managed the whole thing perfectly, Antoineyou and all of
                        you."
                    It was just as Raynor and Montani were leaving the house with the prisoner
                        that we heard a commotion in the direction of the gates. I had sent word
                        that no one was to be admitted to the grounds, but as I ran out the front
                        door a machine was speeding madly toward the house. A dozen of the guards
                        were yelling their protests at the invasion, and a spurt of fire preluded
                        the booming of Zimmerman's shotgun.
                    "Get your man into the car and beat it," I shouted to
                        Raynor, thinking an attempt was about to be made to rescue the prisoner.
                    The touring-car left just as a Barton taxi flashed into the driveway. The
                        driver was swearing loudly at one of the Tyringham veterans who had wedged
                        himself into the door of the machine. With some difficulty  I extricated Scotty from his hazardous
                        position.
                    Searles jumped out (I had forgotten that he might arrive that night), but
                        before I could greet him he swung round and assisted a lady to alighta
                        short, stout lady in a travelling cap, wrapped in a coat that fell to her
                        heels. She began immediately to deliver orders in an authoritative tone as
                        to the rescue of her belongings. Searles dived into the taxi and began
                        dragging out a vast amount of small luggage, but my attention was diverted
                        for a moment by Alice, who jumped down the steps and clasped her arms about
                        the neck of the stout lady.
                    "Aunt Alice!" I heard her saying. "Why
                        didn't you tell us to meet you?"
                    "Why didn't I tell you?" demanded the stout lady.
                        "The moment you left me I knew I'd made a mistake in
                        letting you come over here on one of your absurd larks! And from the row I
                        had getting into the premises I judge that you're at your old
                        tricks. Fired upon! Treated as though I were an outlaw! You shall never go
                        out of my sight again!"
                    
                    "Oh, please don't scold me!" Alice pleaded and
                        turning to me: "This is Bob Singleton, your nephew."
                    Mrs. Bashfordand I made no question that Searles's companion was
                        indubitably my uncle's widowgave me her hand and smiled in a way
                        that showed that she was not so greatly displeased with Alice as her words
                        implied.
                    "Pay that driver for me and don't fail to tip him. Those
                        Methuselahs at the gate all but killed him. It was only the vigorous
                        determination of this gentleman, who very generously permitted me to share
                        the only motor at the station, that I got through the gates alive! I beg
                        your pardon, but what is your name?"
                    "Mrs. Bashford," I interposed, "my friend, Mr.
                        Searles."
                    "Mr. Searles!" cried Alice, dropping a cage containing some
                        weird Oriental bird which had been among my aunt's impedimenta. The
                        bird squawked hideously.
                    "Miss Violet Dewing, permit me to present the author of
                        'Lady Larkspur'!"
                    Poor Torrence, clinging to a pillar for support,  now revived sufficiently to be included in the introductions.
                    It was a week later that Alice and I sat on the stone wall watching the
                        waves, at the point forever memorable as the scene of our first talk.
                    "Aunt Alice isn't playing fair," she said.
                        "She pretends now that it was all my idea coming over to play at
                        being your uncle's widow, but she really encouraged me to do it so
                        I could give her an impartial judgment of your character. I'm her
                        only niece and her namesake, and she relies on me a good deal. You know
                        she's very, very rich, and she had never any idea of keeping your
                        uncle's money She meant all the while to give it to youprovided she
                        found you were nice. And she thinks you are very nice."
                    "Your own opinion of me would be interesting," I suggested.
                    She had gathered a handful of pebbles and was flinging them fitfully at a bit
                        of driftwood. I wished her lips hadn't that little quiver that
                        preluded laughter and that her eyes were not the haven of all the dreams in
                        the world.
                    
                    She landed a pebble on the target before replying.
                    "You are very nice, I think," She said with disconcerting
                        detachment. "At first I was afraid you didn't like
                        nonsense, but you really got through very well, considering the trouble I
                        caused you. But I'm in trouble myself now. Papa will land
                        to-morrow. He's the grandest, dearest man in all this world, but
                        when he finds that I'm going to act in Mr. Searles's play
                        he will be terribly cut up. Of course it will not be for long. Even if
                        it's a big success, I'm to be released in three months.
                        Constance and Sir Cecil think I owe it to myself to appear in the piece;
                        they're good enough to say nobody else can do it so wellwhich is a
                        question. I'm going to give all the money I earn to the blind
                        soldiers."
                    (I wished the tears in her eyes didn't make them more lovely still!)
                    "Being what you are and all you are, it would be brutal for me to
                        add to the number of things you have to tell your father. I'm a
                        very obscure person, and he is a gentleman of title and otherwise
                        distinguished. You are the Honorable Miss"
                    
                    "Papa has said numbers of times," she began softly, looking
                        far out across the blue Sound"he has said, oh, very often, that
                        he'll never stop troubling about me until until I'm
                        happily married."
                    "When you came here you wore a wedding-ring," I remarked
                        casually.
                    "It was only a 'property' ring, to help deceive
                        you. I bought it in Chicago. When Aunt Alice came I threw it away."
                    "The finger seems lonesome without it," I said.
                        "If I get you another, I hope you'll take better care of
                        it."
                    "If you should put it there," she replied, looking fixedly
                        at the hand, "that would be very, very different."
                
                THE END
                
            
        
    
