
     ----CITATION---- 
        Tarkington, Booth, 1869-1946. Monsieur Beaucaire: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2382
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                Monsieur Beaucaire
                
                    by Booth Tarkington
                
                
                    Author of "The Gentleman from
                    Indiana"
                
            
            
            
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    Monsieur Beaucaire
                
                by
                    Booth Tarkington
                Illustrated by C. D. Williams
                
                    New York
                    McClure, Phillips & Co.
                    1900
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT, 1899, 1900, BY S. S. MCCLURE CO. COPYRIGHT, 1900,
                    BY MCCLURE, PHILLIPS & CO.
            
            
            
                
                    To H.T.J. B.T.
                
            
            
            
                List of Illustrations.
                
                    
                        Monsieur Beaucaire. Frontispiece
                        
                    
                    
                        "Merci, Monsieur Le Duc."
                        Page 5
                        
                    
                    
                        Lady Mary Carlisle.
                         Page 18
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        "Monsieur Beaucaire, wary, alert, brilliant."
                         Page 59
                        
                    
                    
                        "She was silent, a statue."
                         Page 101
                        
                    
                    
                        "It is a bitter mistake I have made.
                            Forgive."
                         Page 125
                        
                    
                
                
                    The Decorations of this Book were designed by Chas Edw Hooper
                
            
        
        
            
            
                Monsieur Beaucaire
                
                
                    Chapter One
                    
                        THE young Frenchman did very well what he had planned to
                        do. His guess that the Duke would cheat proved good. As the unshod
                        half-dozen figures that had been standing noiselessly in the entryway stole
                        softly into the shadows of the chamber, he leaned across the table and
                        smilingly plucked a card out of the big Englishman's sleeve.
                    
                    "Merci, M. le Duc!" he laughed, rising and stepping back
                        from the table.
                    The Englishman cried out, "It means the dirty work of silencing you
                        with my bare hands!" and came at him.
                    "Do not move," said M. Beaucaire, so sharply that the other
                        paused. "Observe behind you."
                    The Englishman turned, and saw what trap he had blundered into; then stood
                        transfixed, impotent, alternately scarlet with rage and white with the vital
                        shame of discovery. M. Beaucaire remarked, indicating the silent figures by
                        a polite wave of the hand, "Is it not a compliment to monsieur that
                        I procure six large men to subdue him? They are quite devote' 
                        
                            
                                "Merci, Monsieur Le Duc."
                            
                        
                        
                        
                         to me, and monsieur is alone. Could it be that
                        he did not wish even his lackeys to know he play with the yo'ng
                        Frenchman who Meestaire Nash does not like in the pomp-room? Monsieur is
                        unfortunate to have come on foot and alone to my apartment."
                    The Duke's mouth foamed over with chaotic revilement. His captor
                        smiled brightly, and made a slight gesture, as one who brushes aside a
                        boisterous insect. With the same motion he quelled to stony quiet a
                        resentful impetus of his servants toward the Englishman.
                    "It's murder, is it, you carrion!" finished the
                        Duke.
                    M. Beaucaire lifted his shoulders in a mock shiver. "What words!  No, no, no! No killing! A such word to a such
                        host! No, no, not mur-r-der; only disgrace!" He laughed a clear,
                        light laugh with a rising inflection, seeming to launch himself upon an
                        adventurous quest for sympathy.
                    "You little devilish scullion!" spat out the Duke.
                    "Tut, tut! But I forget. Monsieur has pursue' his studies
                        of deportment amongs' his fellow-countrymen."
                    "Do you dream a soul in Bath will take your word that Ithat
                        I"
                    "That M. le Duc de Winterset had a card up his sleeve?"
                    "You pitiful stroller, you stable-boy, born in a stable"
                    
                    "Is it not an honor to be born where monsieur must have been
                        bred?"
                    "You scurvy foot-boy, you greasy barber, you cutthroat
                        groom"
                    "Overwhelm'!" The young man bowed with
                        imperturbable elation. "M. le Duc appoint' me to all the
                        office' of his househol'."
                    "You mustachioed fool, there are not five people of quality in Bath
                        will speak to you"
                    "No, monsieur, not on the parade; but how many come to play with me
                        here? Because I will play always, night or day, for what one will, for any
                        long, and always fair, monsieur."
                    "You outrageous varlet! Every one knows you came to England as the
                        French Ambassador's barber.  What man
                        of fashion will listen to you? Who will believe you?"
                    "All people, monsieur. Do you think I have not calculate',
                        that I shall make a failure of my little enterprise?"
                    "Bah!"
                    "Will monsieur not reseat himself?" M. Beaucaire made a low
                        bow. "So. We must not be too tire' for Lady
                        Malbourne's rout. Ha, ha! And you, Jean, Victor, and you others,
                        retire; go in the hallway. Attend at the entrance, Franois. So; now we shall
                        talk. Monsieur, I wish you to think very cool. Then listen; I will be
                        briefly. It is that I am well known to be all, entire'
                        hones'. Gamblist? Ah, yes; true and mos' profitable; but
                        fair, always fair;  every one say that. Is it
                        not so? Think of it. Andis there never a w'isper come to M. le Duc
                        that not all people belief him to play always hones'? Ha, ha! Did
                        it almos' be said to him las' year,
                        after when he play' with Milor' Tappin'ford at
                        the chocolate-house"
                    "You dirty scandal-monger!" the Duke burst out,
                        "I'll"
                    "Monsieur, monsieur!" said the Frenchman. "It is a
                        poor valor to insult a helpless captor. Can he retort upon his own victim?
                        But it is for you to think of what I say. True, I am not reco'nize
                        on the parade; that my frien's who come here do not present me to
                        their ladies; that Meestaire Nash has reboff' me in the pomp-room;
                        still, am I not  known for being
                        hones' and fair in my play, and will I not be
                        belief', even I, when I lif' my voice and charge you aloud
                        with what is already w'isper'? Think of it! You are a
                        noble, and there will be some hang-dogs who might not fall away from you.
                        Only such would be lef' to you. Do you want it tol'? And
                        you can keep out of France, monsieur? I have lef' his service, but
                        I have still the ear of M. de Mirepoix, and he know' I never lie.
                        Not a gentleman will play you when you come to Paris."
                    The Englishman's white lip showed a row of scarlet dots upon it.
                        "How much do you want?" he said.
                    The room rang with the gay laughter of Beaucaire. "I hol'
                        your  note' for seven-hunder'
                        pound'. You can have them, monsieur. Why does a such great man come
                        to play M. Beaucaire? Because no one else will-in' to play M. le
                        Duche cannot pay. Ha, ha! So he come' to good Monsieur Beaucaire.
                        Money, ha, ha! What I want with money?"
                    His Grace of Winterset's features were set awry to a sinister
                        pattern. He sat glaring at his companion in a snarling silence.
                    "Money? Pouf!" snapped the little gambler. "No,
                        no, no! It is that M. le Duc, impoverish', some-what in a bad odor
                        as he is, yet command the entre any-whereonless IHa, ha!
                        Eh, monsieur?"
                    "Ha! You dare think to force me"
                    
                    M. Beaucaire twirled the tip of his slender mustache around the end of his
                        white forefinger. Then he said: "Monsieur and me goin' to
                        Lady Malbourne's ball to-nightM. le Duc and me!"
                    The Englishman roared, "Curse your impudence!"
                    "Sit quiet. Oh, yes, that's all; we goin'
                        together."
                    "No!"
                    "Certain. I make all my little plan'. 'Tis all
                        arrange'." He paused, and then said gravely, "You
                        goin' present me to Lady Mary Carlisle."
                    The other laughed in utter scorn. "Lady Mary Carlisle, of all women
                        alive, would be the first to prefer the devil to a man of no birth,
                        barber."
                    "'Tis all arrange'; have no fear;  nobody question monsieur's guest. You
                        goin' take me to-night"
                    "No!"
                    "Yes. And afterthen I have the entre. Is it much I ask? This one little favor, and I never
                        w'isper, never breathe thatit is to say, I am always forever silent
                        of monsieur's misfortune."
                    
                        "You have the entre!"
                        sneered the other. "Go to a lackeys' rout and dance with
                        the kitchen maids. If I would, I could not present you to Bath society. I
                        should have cartels from the fathers, brothers, and lovers of every wench
                        and madam in the place, even I. You would be thrust from Lady
                        Malbourne's door five minutes after you entered it."
                    "No, no, no!"
                    
                    "Half the gentlemen in Bath have been here to play. They would know
                        you, wouldn't they, fool? You've had thousands out of
                        Bantison, Rakell, Guilford, and Town-brake. They would have you lashed by
                        the grooms as your ugly deserts are. You to speak to Lady
                        Mary Carlisle! 'Od's blood! You! Also, dolt, she would
                        know you if you escaped the others. She stood within a yard of you when Nash
                        expelled you the pump-room."
                    M. Beaucaire flushed slightly. "You think I did not see?"
                        he asked.
                    "Do you dream that because Winterset introduces a low fellow he will
                        be toleratedthat Bath will receive a barber?"
                    
                    
                    
                    
                        
                            Lady Mary Carlisle.
                        
                    
                    
                    "I have the distinction to call monsieur's
                        attention," replied the young man gayly, "I have
                        renounce' that profession."
                    "Fool!"
                    "I am now a man of honor!"
                    "Faugh!"
                    "A man of the parts," continued the young Frenchman,
                        "and of deportment; is it not so? Have you seen me of a fluster, or
                        gross ever, or, what shall I saybourgeois? Shall you be
                        shame' for your guest' manner? No, no! And my appearance,
                        is it of the people? Clearly, no. Do I not compare in taste of apparel with
                        your you'ng Englishman? Ha, ha! To be hope'. Ha, ha! So I
                        am goin' talk with Lady Mary Carlisle."
                    
                    "Bah!" The Duke made a savage burlesque.
                        "'Lady Mary Carlisle, may I assume the honor of presenting
                        the barber of the Marquis de Mirepoix?' So, is it?"
                    "No, monsieur," smiled the young man. "Quite not
                        so. You shall have nothing to worry you, nothing in the worl'. I am
                        goin' to assassinate my poor mustachioalso remove this horrible
                        black peruke, and emerge in my own hair. Behol'!" He swept
                        the heavy, curled mass from his head as he spoke, and his hair, coiled under
                        the great wig, fell to his shoulders, and sparkled yellow in the
                        candle-light. He tossed his head to shake the hair back from his cheeks.
                        "When it is dress', I am transform'; nobody can
                        know me; you shall observe.  See how little I
                        ask of you, how very little bit. No one shall rec-o'nize
                        'M. Beaucaire' or 'Victor.' Ha, ha!
                        'Tis all arrange'; you have nothing to fear."
                    "Curse you," said the Duke, "do you think
                        I'm going to be saddled with you wherever I go as long as you
                        choose?"
                    "A mistake. No. All I requiAll I begis this one evening.
                        'Tis all shall be necessary. After, I shall not
                        need monsieur."
                    "Take heed to yourselfafter!" vouchsafed the Englishman
                        between his teeth.
                    "Conquered!" cried M. Beaucaire, and clapped his hands
                        gleefully. "Conquered for the night! Aha, it is riz'nable!
                        I shall meet what you  sendafter. One cannot
                        hope too much of your patience. It is but natural you should
                        attemp' a little avengement for the rascal trap I was such a wicked
                        fellow as to set for you. I shall meet some strange frien's of
                        yours after to-night; not so? I must try to be not too much
                        frighten'." He looked at the Duke curiously. "You
                        want to know why I create this tragedy, why I am so unkind as to entrap
                        monsieur?"
                    His Grace of Winterset replied with a chill glance; a pulse in the
                        nobleman's cheek beat less relentlessly; his eye raged not so
                        bitterly; the steady purple of his own color was returning; his voice was
                        less hoarse; he was regaining his habit. "'Tis ever the
                        manner of the vulgar," he  observed,
                        "to wish to be seen with people of fashion."
                    "Oh, no, no, no!" The Frenchman laughed.
                        "'Tis not that. Am I not already one of these
                        'men of fashion'? I lack only the reputation of birth.
                        Monsieur is goin' supply that. Ha, ha! I shall be noble from
                        to-night. 'Victor', the artis', is
                        condemn' to death; his throat shall be cut with his own razor.
                        'M. Beaucaire'" Here the young man sprang to his
                        feet, caught up the black wig, clapped into it a dice-box from the table,
                        and hurled it violently through the open door. "'M.
                        Beaucaire' shall be choke' with his own dice-box. Who is
                        the Phnix to remain? What advantage have I not over other men of rank who
                        are  merely born to it? I may choose my own.
                        No! Choose for me, monsieur. Shall I be chevalier, comte, vicomte, marquis,
                        what? None. Out of compliment to monsieur can I wish to be anything he is
                        not? No, no! I shall be M. le Duc, M. le Duc dede Chateaurien. Ha, ha! You
                        see? You are my confrre."
                    
                    M. Beaucaire trod a dainty step or two, waving his hand politely to the Duke,
                        as though in invitation to join the celebration of his rank. The Englishman
                        watched, his eye still and harsh, already gathering in craftiness. Beaucaire
                        stopped suddenly. "But how I forget my age! I am
                        twenty-three," he said, with a sigh. "I rejoice too much
                        to be of the quality. It has been too great for me, and I  had always belief' myself free of
                        such ambition. I thought it was enough to behol' the opera without
                        wishing to sing; but no, England have teach' me I have those vulgar
                        desire'. Monsieur, I am goin' tell you a secret; the
                        ladies of your country are very diff'runt than ours. One may adore
                        the demoiselle, one must worship the lady of England. Our ladies have theit
                        is the beauty of youth; yours remain comely at thirty. Ours are flowers,
                        yours are stars! See, I betray myself, I am so poor a patriot. And there is
                        one among these starsah, yes, there is onethe poor Frenchman has
                        observe' from his humble distance; even there he could bask in the
                        glowing!" M. Beaucaire turned to the window, and looked out into
                             the dark. He did not see the lights of the
                        town. When he turned again, he had half forgotten his prisoner; other
                        pictures were before him.
                    "Ah, what radiance!" he cried. "Those people up
                        over the sky, they want to show they wish the earth to be happy, so they
                        smile, and make this lady. Gold-haired, an angel of heaven, and yet a Diana
                        of the chase! I see her fly by me on her great horse one day; she
                        touch' his mane with her fingers. I buy that clipping from the
                        groom. I have it here with my dear brother's picture. Ah, you! Oh, yes, you laugh! What do you know! 'Twas
                        all I could get. But I have heard of the endeavor of M. le Duc to recoup his
                        fortunes. This alliance shall fail. It is not the waythat  heritage shall be safe' from him! It
                        is you and me, monsieur! You can laugh! The war is open', and by
                            me! There is one great step taken: until to-night
                        there was nothing for you to ruin, to-morrow you have got a noble of
                        Franceyour own protgto besiege and sack. And you are to
                        lose, because you think such ruin easy, and because you understand
                        nothingfar lessof divinity. How could you know? You have not the fiber; the
                        heart of a lady is a blank to you; you know nothing of the vibration. There
                        are some words that were made only to tell of Lady Mary, for her alonebellissima, divine, glorieuse! Ah, how I
                        have watch' her! It is sad to me when I see her surround'
                        by your  yo'ng captains, your nobles,
                        your rattles, your beauxha, ha!and I mus' hol' far aloof.
                        It is sad for mebut oh, jus' to watch her and to wonder! Strange it
                        is, but I have almos' cry out with rapture at a look I have
                        see' her give another man, so beautiful it was, so tender, so
                        dazzling of the eyes and so mirthful of the lips. Ah, divine coquetry! A
                        look for another, ab-i-me! for many others; and even to
                        you, one day, a rose, while II, monsieur, could not even be so blessed as to
                        be the groun' beneath her little shoe! But to-night, monsieurha, ha!to-night, monsieur, you and
                        me, two princes, M. le Duc de Winterset and M. le Duc de Chateaurienha, ha!
                        you see?we are goin' arm-in-arm to that ball, and 
                        I am goin' have one of those looks, I! And a rose! I! It is time. But ten
                        minute', monsieur. I make my apology to keep you waitin'
                        so long while I go in the nex' room and execute my poor
                        mustachiothat will be my only murder for jus' this one eveningand
                        inves' myself in white satin. Ha, ha! I shall be very
                        grain', monsieur. Franois, send Louis to me; Victor, to order two
                        chairs for monsieur and me; we are goin' out in the worl'
                        to-night!"
                
                
                
                    Chapter Two
                    
                        THE chairmen swarmed in the street at Lady
                        Malbourne's door, where the joyous vulgar fought with muddled
                        footmen and tipsy link-boys for places of vantage whence to catch a glimpse
                        of quality and of raiment at its utmost. Dawn was in the east, and the
                        guests were departing. Singly or in pairs, glittering in finery, they came
                        mincing down the steps, the  ghost of the
                        night's smirk fading to jadedness as they sought the dark recesses
                        of their chairs. From within sounded the twang of fiddles still swinging
                        manfully at it, and the windows were bright with the light of many candles.
                        When the door was flung open to call the chair of Lady Mary Carlisle, there
                        was an eager pressure of the throng to see.
                    A small, fair gentleman in white satin came out upon the steps, turned and
                        bowed before a lady who appeared in the doorway, a lady whose royal
                        loveliness was given to view for a moment in that glowing frame. The crowd
                        sent up a hearty English cheer for the Beauty of Bath.
                    The gentleman smiled upon them delightedly. "What enchanting
                        people!"  he cried. "Why did
                        I not know, so I might have shout' with them?" The lady
                        noticed the people not at all; whereat, being pleased, the people cheered
                        again. The gentleman offered her his hand; she made a slow courtesy; placed
                        the tips of her fingers upon his own. "I am honored, M. de
                        Chateaurien," she said.
                    "No, no!" he cried earnestly. "Behol' a
                        poor Frenchman whom emperors should envy." Then reverently and with
                        the pride of his gallant office vibrant in every line of his light figure,
                        invested in white satin and very grand, as he had prophesied, M. le Duc de
                        Chateaurien handed Lady Mary Carlisle down the steps, an achievement which
                        had figured in  the ambitions of seven other
                        gentlemen during the evening.
                    "Am I to be lef' in such on-happiness?" he said in
                        a low voice. "That rose I have beg' for so long"
                    "Never!" said Lady Mary.
                    "Ah, I do not deserve it, I know so well! But"
                    "Never!"
                    "It is the greatness of my on-worthiness that alone can claim your
                        charity; let your kin' heart give this little red rose, this great
                        alms, to the poor beggar."
                    "Never!"
                    She was seated in the chair. "Ah, give the rose," he
                        whispered. Her beauty shone dazzlingly on him out of the dimness.
                    
                    "Never!" she flashed defiantly as she was closed in.
                        "Never!"
                    "Ah!"
                    "Never!"
                    The rose fell at his feet.
                    "A rose lasts till morning," said a voice behind him.
                    Turning, M. de Chateaurien looked beamingly upon the face of the Duke of
                        Winterset.
                    "'Tis already the daylight," he replied, pointing
                        to the east. "Monsieur, was it not enough honor for you to
                        han' out madame, the aunt of Lady Mary? Lady Rellerton
                        retain' much trace of beauty. 'Tis strange you did not
                        appear more happy."
                    "The rose is of an unlucky color, I think," observed the
                        Duke.
                    
                    "The color of a blush, my brother."
                    "Unlucky, I still maintain," said the other calmly.
                    "The color of the veins of a Frenchman. Ha, ha!" cried the
                        young man. "What price would be too high? A rose is a rose! A
                        good-night, my brother, a good-night. I wish you dreams of roses, red roses,
                        only beautiful red, red roses!"
                    "Stay! Did you see the look she gave these street folk when they
                        shouted for her? And how are you higher than they, when she knows? As high
                        as yonder horse-boy!"
                    "Red roses, my brother, only roses. I wish you dreams of red, red
                        roses!"
                
                
                
                    Chapter Three
                    
                        TWAS well agreed by the fashion of Bath that M. le Duc de
                        Chateaurien was a person of sensibility and haut ton; that
                        his retinue and equipage surpassed in elegance; that his person was
                        exquisite, his manner engaging. In the company of gentlemen his ease was
                        slightly tinged with graciousness (his single equal in Bath being his Grace
                        of Winterset); but it  was remarked that when
                        he bowed over a lady's hand, his air bespoke only a gay and tender
                        reverence.
                    He was the idol of the dowagers within a week after his appearance; matrons
                        warmed to him; young belles looked sweetly on him, while the gentlemen were
                        won to admiration or envy. He was of prodigious wealth: old Mr. Bicksit, who
                        dared not, for his fame's sake, fail to have seen all things, had
                        visited Chateaurien under the present Duke's father, and descanted
                        to the curious upon its grandeurs. The young noble had one fault, he was so
                        poor a gambler. He cared nothing for the hazards of a die or the turn of a
                        card. Gayly admitting that he had been born with no spirit of adventure in
                             him, he was sure, he declared, that he
                        failed of much happiness by his lack of taste in such mattes.
                    But he was not long wanting the occasion to prove his taste in the matter of
                        handling a weapon. A certain led-captain, Rohrer by name, notorious, amongst
                        other things, for bearing a dexterous and bloodthirsty blade, came to Bath
                        post-haste, one night, and jostled heartily against him in the pump-room on
                        the following morning. M. de Chateaurien bowed, and turned aside without
                        offense, continuing a conversation with some gentlemen near by. Captain
                        Rohrer jostled against him a second time. M. de Chateaurien looked him in
                        the eye, and apologized pleasantly for being so much in the way. Thereupon
                             Rohrer procured an introduction to him,
                        and made some observations derogatory to the valor and virtue of the French.
                    There was current a curious piece of gossip of the French court: a prince of
                        the blood royal, grandson of the late Regent and second in the line of
                        succession to the throne of France, had rebelled against the authority of
                        Louis XV., who had commanded him to marry the Princess Henriette, cousin to
                        both of them. The princess was reported to be openly devoted to the cousin
                        who refused to accept her hand at the bidding of the king; and, as rumor
                        ran, the prince's caprice elected in preference the discipline of
                        Vincennes, to which retirement the furious king  had consigned him. The story was the staple gossip of all polite Europe;
                        and Captain Rohrer, having in his mind a purpose to make use of it in
                        leading up to a statement that should be general to the damage of all
                        Frenchwomen, and which a French-man might not pass over as he might a jog of
                        the elbow, repeated it with garbled truths to make a scandal of a story
                        which bore none on a plain relation.
                    He did not reach his deduction. M. de Chateaurien, breaking into his
                        narrative, addressed him very quietly. "Monsieur," he
                        said, "none but swine deny the nobleness of that good and gentle
                        lady, Mademoiselle la Princesse de Bourbon-Conti. Every Frenchman
                        know' that her cousin is  a bad rebel
                        and ingrate, who had only honor and rispec' for her, but was so
                        wilful he could not let even the king say, 'You shall marry here,
                        you shall marry there.' My frien's," the young
                        man turned to the others, "may I ask you to close roun' in
                        a circle for one moment? It is clearly shown that the Duke of Orleans is a
                        scurvy fellow, but not" he wheeled about and touched Captain Rohrer
                        on the brow with the back of his gloved hand"but not so scurvy as
                        thou, thou swine of the gutter!"
                    Two hours later, with perfect ease, he ran Captain Rohrer through the left
                        shoulderafter which he sent a basket of red roses to the Duke of Winterset.
                        In a few days he had another captain to fight. This was a  ruffling buck who had the astounding
                        indiscretion to proclaim M. de Chateaurien an impostor. There was no
                        Chateaurien, he swore. The French-man laughed in his face, and, at twilight
                        of the same day, pinked him carefully through the right shoulder. It was not
                        that he could not put aside the insult to himself, he declared to Mr.
                        Molyneux, his second, and the few witnesses, as he handed his wet sword to
                        his lackeyone of his station could not be insulted by a doubt of that
                        stationbut he fought in the quarrel of his friend Winterset. This rascal had
                        asserted that M. le Duc had introduced an impostor. Could he overlook the
                        insult to a friend, one to whom he owed his kind reception in Bath? Then,
                        bending over  his fallen adversary, he
                        whispered: "Naughty man, tell your master find some better quarrel
                        for the nex' he sen' agains' me."
                    The conduct of M. de Chateaurien was pronounced admirable.
                    There was no surprise when the young foreigner fell naturally into the long
                        train of followers of the beautiful Lady Mary Carlisle, nor was there great
                        astonishment that he should obtain marked favor in her eyes, shown so
                        plainly that my Lord Townbrake, Sir Hugh Guilford, and the rich Squire
                        Bantison, all of whom had followed her through three seasons, swore with
                        rage, and his Grace of Winterset stalked from her aunt's house with
                        black brows.
                    Meeting the Duke there on the  evening after his
                        second encounter, de Chateaurien smiled upon him brilliantly. "It
                        was badly done; ob, so badly!" he whispered.
                        "Can you afford to have me strip' of my mask by any but
                        yourself? You, who introduce' me? They will say there is some bad
                        scandal that I could force you to be my god-father. You mus' get
                        the courage yourself."
                    "I told you a rose had a short life," was the answer.
                    "Oh, those roses! 'Tis the very greates' rizzon to
                        gather each day a fresh one." He took a red bud from his breast for
                        an instant, and touched it to his lips.
                    "M. de Chateaurien!" It was Lady Mary's voice; she
                        stood at a table where a vacant place had been  left beside her. "M. de Chateaurien, we have been waiting very
                        long for you."
                    The Duke saw the look she did not know she gave the Frenchman, and he lost
                        countenance for a moment.
                    "We approach a climax, eh, monsieur?" said M. de
                        Chateaurien.
                
                
                
                    Chapter Four
                    
                        THERE fell a clear September night, when the moon was
                        radiant over town and country, over cobbled streets and winding roads. From
                        the fields the mists rose slowly, and the air was mild and fragrant, while
                        distances were white and full of mystery. All of Bath that pretended to
                        fashion or condition was present that evening at a fte at
                        the house of a  country gentleman of the
                        neighborhood. When the stately junked was concluded, it was the pleasure of
                        M. de Chateaurien to form one of the escort of Lady Mary's carriage
                        for the return. As they took the road, Sir Hugh Guilford and Mr. Bantison,
                        engaging in indistinct but vigorous remonstrance with Mr. Molyneux over some
                        matter, fell fifty or more paces behind, where they continued to ride,
                        keeping up their argument. Half a dozen other gallants rode in advance,
                        muttering among themselves, or attended laxly upon Lady Mary's aunt
                        on the other side of the coach, while the happy Frenchman was permitted to
                        ride close to that adorable window which framed the fairest face in England.
                    
                    He sang for her a little French song, a song of the Voyageur who dreamed of home. The lady, listening, looking up at the
                        bright moon, felt a warm drop upon her cheek, and he saw the tears sparkling
                        upon her lashes.
                    "Mademoiselle," he whispered then, "I, too, have
                        been a wanderer, but my dreams were not of France; no, I do not dream of
                        that home of that dear country. It is of a dearer country, a dream countrya
                        country of gold and snow," he cried softly, looking at her white
                        brow and the fair, lightly powdered hair above it. "Gold and snow,
                        and the blue sky of a lady's eyes!"
                    "I had thought the ladies of France were dark, sir."
                    
                    "Cruel! It is that she will not understan'! Have I speak of
                        the ladies of France? No, no, no! It is of the faires' country;
                        yes, 'tis a province of heaven, mademoiselle. Do I not renounce my
                        allegiance to France? Oh, yes! I am subjec'no, content to be
                        slavein the lan' of the blue sky, the gold, and the snow."
                    "A very pretty figure," answered Lady Mary, her eyes
                        downcast. "But does it not hint a notable experience in the making
                        of such speeches?"
                    "Tormentress! No. It prove' only the inspiration it is to
                        know you."
                    "We English ladies hear plenty of the like, sir; and we even grow
                        brilliant enough to detect the assurance  that
                        lies beneath the courtesies of our own gallants."
                    
                        "Merci! I should believe so!" ejaculated
                        M. de Chateaurien; but he smothered the words upon his lips.
                    Her eyes were not lifted. She went on: "We come, in time, to believe
                        that true feeling comes faltering forth, not glibly; that smoothness
                        betokens the adept in the art, sir, rather than your trueyour
                        true"She was herself faltering; more, blushing deeply, and halting
                        to a full stop in terror of a word. There was a silence.
                    "Yourtruelover," he said huskily. When he had said that
                        word both trembled. She turned half away into the darkness of the coach.
                    "I know what make' you to doubt  me," he said, faltering himself, though it was not his art that
                        prompted him. "They have tol' you the French do nothing
                        always but make love, is it not so? Yes, you think I am
                        like that. You think I am like that now!"
                    She made no sign.
                    "I suppose," he sighed, "I am
                        un-riz'nable; I would have the snow not so col'for
                        jus' me."
                    She did not answer.
                    "Turn to me," he said.
                    The fragrance of the fields came to them, and from the distance the faint,
                        clear note of a hunting-horn.
                    "Turn to me."
                    The lovely head was bent very low. Her little gloved hand lay upon the narrow
                        window ledge. He laid his  own gently upon it.
                        The two hands were shaking like twin leaves in the breeze. Here was not
                        drawn away. After a pause, neither knew how long, he felt the warm fingers
                        turn and clasp themselves tremulously about his own. At last she looked up
                        bravely and met his eyes. The horn was wound againnearer.
                    "All the cold was gone from the snowslong ago," she said.
                    "My beautiful!" he whispered; it was all he could say.
                        "My beautiful!" But she clutched his arm, startled.
                    
                        "'Ware the road!" A wild halloo
                        sounded ahead. The horn wound loudly. "'Ware
                            the road!" There sprang up out of the night a flying
                        thunder of hoof-beats. The gentlemen  riding
                        idly in front of the coach scattered to the hedge-sides; and, with drawn
                        swords flashing in the moon, a party of horsemen charged down the highway,
                        their cries blasting the night.
                    "Barber! Kill the barber!" they screamed. "Barber!
                        Kill the barber!"
                    Beaucaire had but time to draw his sword when they were upon him.
                    
                        " moi!" his voice range out clearly as
                        he rose in his stirrups. " moi, Franois, Louis,
                        Berquin!  moi, Franois!"
                    The cavaliers came straight at him. He parried the thrust of the first, but
                        the shock of collision hurled his horse against the side of the coach.
                    "Sacred swine!" he cried bitterly.  "To endanger a lady, to make this brawl in a
                        lady's presence! Drive on!" he shouted.
                    "No!" cried Lady Mary.
                    The Frenchman's assailants were masked, but they were not
                        highwaymen. "Barber! Barber!" they shouted hoarsely, and
                        closed in on him in a circle.
                    "See how he use his steel!" laughed M. Beaucaire, as his
                        point passed through a tawdry waistcoat. For a moment he cut through the
                        ring and cleared a space about him, and Lady Mary saw his face shining in
                        the moonlight. "Canaille!" he hissed, as
                        his horse sank beneath him; and, though guarding his head from the rain of
                        blows from above, he managed to drag headlong from his saddle  the man who had hamstrung the poor brute. The
                        fellow came suddenly to the ground, and lay there.
                    "Is it not a compliment," said a heavy voice, "to
                        bring six large men to subdue monsieur?"
                    "Oh, you are there, my frien'! In the reara little in the
                        rear, I think. Ha, ha!"
                    The Frenchman's play with his weapon was a revelation of skill, the
                        more extraordinary as he held in his hand only a light dress sword. But the
                        ring closed about him, and his keen defense could not avail him for more
                        than a few moments. Lady Mary's outriders, the gallants of her
                        escort, rode up close to the coach and encircled it, not interfering.
                    
                    "Sir Hugh Guilford!" cried Lady Mary wildly, "if
                        you will not help him, give me your sword!" She would have leaped
                        to the ground, but Sir Hugh held the door.
                    "Sit quiet, madam," he said to her; then, to the man on the
                        box, "Drive on."
                    "If he does, I'll kill him!" she said fiercely.
                        "Ah, what cowards! Will you see the Duke murdered?"
                    "The Duke!" laughed Guilford. "They will not kill
                        him, unlessbe easy, dear madam, 'twill be explained. Gad's
                        life!" he muttered to Molyneux, "'Twere time the
                        varlet had his lashing! D'ye hear her?"
                    "Barber or no barber," answered Molyneux, "I wish
                        I had warned him. He fights as few gentlemen 
                        could. Ahah! Look at that! 'Tis a shame!"
                    On foot, his hat gone, his white coat sadly rent and gashed, flecked, too,
                        with red, M. Beaucaire, wary, alert, brilliant, seemed to transform himself
                        into a dozen fencing-masters; and, though his skill appeared to lie in
                        delicacy and quickness, his play being continually with the point, sheer
                        strength failed to beat him down. The young man was laughing like a child.
                    "Believe me," said Molyneux, "he's no
                        barber! No, and never was!"
                    For a moment there was even a chance that M. Beaucaire might have the best of
                        it. Two of his adversaries were prostrate, more than  one were groaning, and the indomitable Frenchman had actually
                        almost beat off the ruffians, when, by a trick, he was overcome. One of
                        them, dismounting, ran in suddenly from behind, and seized his blade in a
                        thick leather gauntlet. Before Beaucaire could disengage the weapon, two
                        others threw themselves from their horses and hurled him to the earth. " moi! moi, Franois!" he cried as he
                        went down, his sword in fragments, but his voice unbroken and clear.
                    "Shame!" muttered one or two of the gentlemen about the
                        coach.
                    "'Twas dastardly to take him so," said Molyneux.
                        "Whatever his deservings, I'm nigh of a mind to offer him
                        a rescue in the Duke's face."
                    "Truss him up, lads," said the 
                        
                            
                                "Monsieur Beaucaire, wary, alert,
                                    brilliant."
                            
                        
                        
                        
                         heavy voice. "Clear the way in front
                        of the coach. There sit those whom we avenge upon a presumptuous lackey.
                        Now, Whiffen, you have a fair audience, lay on and baste him."
                    Two men began to drag M. Beaucaire toward a great oak by the road-side.
                        Another took from his saddle a heavy whip with three thongs.
                    
                        " moi, Franois!"
                    
                    There was borne on the breeze an answer"Monseigneur!
                            Monseigneur!" The cry grew louder suddenly. The clatter of
                        hoofs urged to an anguish of speed sounded on the night. M.
                        Beaucaire's servants had lagged sorely behind, but they made up for
                        it now. Almost before the noise of their own steeds they came riding down
                        the moonlit aisle between  the mists. Chosen
                        men, these servants of Beaucaire, and like a thunderbolt they fell upon the
                        astounded cavaliers.
                    "Chateaurien! Chateaurien!" they shouted, and smote so
                        swiftly that, through lack of time, they showed no proper judgment,
                        discriminating nothing between non-combatants and their master's
                        foes. They charged first into the group about M. Beaucaire, and broke and
                        routed it utterly. Two of them leaped to the young man's side,
                        while the other four, swerving, scarce losing the momentum of their onset,
                        bore on upon the gentlemen near the coach, who went down beneath the
                        fierceness of the onslaught, cursing manfully.
                    "Our just deserts," said Mr. Molyneux,  his mouth full of dust and philosophy.
                    Sir Hugh Guilfod's horse fell with him, being literally ridden over,
                        and the baronet's leg was pinned under the saddle. In less than ten
                        minutes from the first attack on M. Beaucaire, the attacking party had fled
                        in disorder, and the patrician non-combatants, choking with expletives,
                        consumed with wrath, were prisoners, disarmed by the Frenchman's
                        lackeys.
                    Guilford's discomfiture had freed the doors of the coach; so it was
                        that when M. Beaucaire, struggling to rise, assisted by his servants, threw
                        out one hand to balance himself, he found it seized between two small, cold
                        palms, and he looked into two warm, dilating eyes, that were doubly
                        beautiful  because of the fright and rage that
                        found room in them, too.
                    M. le Duc Chateaurien sprang to his feet without the aid of his lackeys, and
                        bowed low before Lady Mary.
                    "I make ten thousan' apology to be the cause of a such mle in your presence," he said; and then, turning
                        to Franois, he spoke in French: "Ah, thou scoundrel! A little, and
                        it had been too late."
                    Franois knelt in the dust before him. "Pardon!" he said.
                        "Monseigneur commanded us to follow far in the rear, to remain
                        unobserved. The wind malignantly blew against monseigneur's
                        voice."
                    "See what it might have cost, my children," said his
                        master, pointing to the ropes with which they would  have bound him and to the whip lying beside them. A shudder
                        passed over the lackey's frame; the utter horror in his face echoed
                        in the eyes of his fellows.
                    "Oh, monseigneur!" Franois sprang back, and tossed his arms
                        to heaven.
                    "But it did not happen," said M. Beaucaire.
                    "It could not!" exclaimed Franois.
                    "No. And you did very well, my children"the young man
                        smiled benevolently"very well. And now," he continued,
                        turning to Lady Mary and speaking in English, "let me be asking of
                        our gallants yonder what make' them to be in cabal with
                        high-waymen. One should come to a  polite
                        understanding with them, you think? Not so?"
                    He bowed, offering his hand to conduct her to the coach, where Molyneux and
                        his companions, having drawn Sir Hugh from under his horse, were engaged in
                        reviving and reassuring Lady Rellerton, who had fainted. But Lady Mary
                        stayed Beaucaire with a gesture, and the two stood where they were.
                    "Monseigneur!" she said, with a note of raillery in her
                        voice, but raillery so tender that he started with happiness. His movement
                        brought him a hot spasm of pain, and he clapped his hand to a red stain on
                        his waistcoat.
                    "You are hurt!"
                    "It is nothing," smiled M. Beaucaire.  Then, that she might not see the stain spreading, he held his
                        hand-kerchief over the spot. "I am a littlebut jus' a
                        triflingbruise'; 'tis all."
                    "You shall ride in the coach," she whispered.
                        "Will you be pleased, M. de Chateaurien?"
                    "Ah, my beautiful!" She seemed to wave before him like a
                        shining mist. "I wish that ride might las' for always! Can
                        you say that, mademoiselle!"
                    "Monseigneur," she cried in a passion of admiration,
                        "I would what you would have be, should be. What do you not
                        deserve? You are the bravest man in the world!"
                    "Ha, ha! I am jus' a poor Frenchman."
                    
                    "Would that a few Englishmen had shown themselves as
                        'poor' tonight. The vile cowards, not to help
                        you!" With that, suddenly possessed by her anger, she swept away
                        from him to the coach.
                    Sir Hugh, groaning loudly, was being assisted into the vehicle.
                    "My little poltroons," she said, "what are you
                        doing with your fellow-craven, Sir Hugh Guilford, there?"
                    "Madam," replied Molyneux humbly, "Sir
                        Hugh's leg is broken. Lady Rellerton graciously permits him to be
                        taken in."
                    
                        "I do not permit it! M. de Chateaurien rides with
                        us."
                    "But"
                    "Sir! Leave the wretch to groan  by the
                        roadside," she cried fiercely, "which plight I would were
                        that of all of you! But there will be a pretty story for the gossips
                        to-morrow! And I could almost find pity for you when I think of the wits
                        when you return to town. Fine gentlemen you; hardy bravoes, by heaven! to
                        leave one man to meet a troop of horse single-handed, while you huddle in
                        shelter until you are overthrown and disarmed by servants! Oh, the wits!
                        Heaven save you from the wits!"
                    "Madam."
                    "Address me no more! M. de Chateaurien, Lady Rellerton and I will
                        greatly esteem the honor of your company. Will you come?"
                    She stepped quickly into the coach, and was gathering her skirts to make  room for the Frenchman, when a heavy voice
                        spoke from the shadows of the tree by the wayside.
                    "Lady Mary Carlisle will, no doubt, listen to a word of counsel on
                        this point."
                    The Duke of Winterset rode out into the moonlight, composedly untieing a mask
                        from about his head. He had not shared the flight of his followers, but had
                        retired into the shade of the oak, whence he now made his presence known
                        with the utmost coolness.
                    "Gracious heavens, 'tis Winterset!" exclaimed Lady
                        Rellerton.
                    "Turned highwayman and cutthroat," cried Lady Mary.
                    "No, no," laughed M. Beaucaire, somewhat unsteadily, as he
                        stood,  swaying a little, with one hand on the
                        coach-door, the other pressed hard on his side, "he only
                        oversee'; he is jus' a little bashful, sometime'.
                        He is a great man, but he don' want all the
                        glory!"
                    "Barber," replied the Duke, "I must tell you that
                        I gladly descend to bandy words with you; your monstrous impudence is a
                        claim to rank I cannot ignore. But a lackey who has himself followed by six
                        other lackeys"
                    "Ha, ha! Has not M. le Duc been busy all this evening to justify me?
                        And I think mine mus' be the bes' six. Ha, ha! You
                        think?"
                    "M. de Chateaurien," said Lady Mary, "we are
                        waiting for you."
                    "Pardon," he replied. "He has  something to say; maybe it is bes' if you hear it
                        now."
                    "I wish to hear nothing from himever!"
                    "My faith, madam," cried the Duke, "this saucy
                        fellow has paid you the last insult! He is so sure of you he does not fear
                        you will believe the truth. When all is told, if you do not agree he
                        deserved the lashing we planned to"
                    "I'll hear no more!"
                    "You will bitterly repent it, madam. For your own sake I
                        entreat"
                    "And I also," broke in M. Beaucaire. "Permit me,
                        mademoiselle; let him speak."
                    "Then let him be brief," said Lady Mary, "for I am
                        earnest to  be quit of him. His explanation of
                        an attack on my friend and on my carriage should be made to my
                        brother."
                    "Alas that he was not here," said the Duke, "to
                        aid me! Madam, was your carriage threatened? I have endeavored only to
                        expunge a debt I owed to Bath and to avenge an insult offered to yourself
                        through"
                    "Sir, sir, my patience will bear little more!"
                    "A thousan' apology," said M. Beaucaire.
                        "You will listen, I only beg, Lady Mary?"
                    She made an angry gesture of assent.
                    "Madam, I will be brief as I may. Two months ago there came to Bath
                        a French gambler calling himself  Beaucaire, a
                        desperate fellow with the cards or dice, and all the men of fashion went to
                        play at his lodging, where he won considerable sums. He was small, wore a
                        black wig and mustachio. He had the insolence to show himself everywhere
                        until the Master of Ceremonies rebuffed him in the pump-room, as you know,
                        and after that he forbore his visits to the rooms. Mr. Nash explained (and
                        was confirmed, madam, by indubitable information) that this Beaucaire was a
                        man of unspeakable, vile, low birth, being, in fact, no other than a lackey
                        of the French king's ambassador, Victor by name, de
                        Mirepoix's barber. Although his condition was known, the hideous
                        impudence of the fellow did not desert him, and he  remained in Bath, where none would speak to him."
                    "Is your farrago nigh done, sir?"
                    "A few moments, madam. One evening, three weeks gone, I observed a
                        very elegant equipage draw up to my door, and the Duke of Chateaurien was
                        announced. The young man's manners were worthyaccording to the
                        French acceptanceand 'twere idle to deny him the most monstrous
                        assurance. He declared himself a noble traveling for pleasure. He had taken
                        lodgings in Bath for a season, he said, and called at once to pay his
                        respects to me. His tone was so candidin truth, I am the simplest of men,
                        very easily gulledand his stroke so bold, that I did not for one moment
                        suspect him;  and, to my poignant regretthough
                        in the humblest spirit I have shown myself eager to atonethat very evening I
                        had the shame of presenting him to yourself."
                    "The shame, sir!"
                    "Have patience, pray, madam. Ay, the shame! You know what figure he
                        hath cut in Bath since that evening. All ran merrily with him until several
                        days ago Captain Badger denounced him as an impostor, vowing that
                        Chateaurien was nothing."
                    "Pardon," interrupted M. Beaucaire.
                        "'Castle Nowhere' would have been so much better.
                        Why did you not make him say it that way, monsieur?"
                    Lady Mary started; she was looking at the Duke, and her face was  white. He continued: "Poor Captain
                        Badger was stabbed that same day"
                    "Most befitting poor Captain Badger," muttered Molyneux.
                    "And his adversary had the marvelous insolence to declare that he
                        fought in my quarrel! This afternoon the wounded man sent
                        for me, and imparted a very horrifying intelligence. He had discovered a
                        lackey whom he had seen waiting upon Beaucaire in attendance at the door of
                        this Chateaurien's lodging. Beaucaire had disappeared the day
                        before Chateaurien's arrival. Captain Badger looked closely at
                        Chateaurien at their next meeting, and identified him with the missing
                        Beaucaire beyond the faintest doubt. Overcome 
                        with indignation, he immediately proclaimed the impostor. Out of regard for
                        me, he did not charge him with being Beaucaire; the poor soul was unwilling
                        to put upon me the humiliation of having introduced a barber; but the secret
                        weighed upon him till he sent for me and put everything in my hands. I
                        accepted the odium; thinking only of atonement. I went to Sir John
                        Wimple-don's fte. I took poor Sir Hugh, there,
                        and these other gentlemen aside, and told them my news. We narrowly observed
                        this man, and were shocked at our simplicity in not having discovered him
                        before. These are men of honor and cool judgment, madam. Mr. Molyneux had
                        acted for him in the affair of Captain  Badger,
                        and was strongly prejudiced in his favor; but Mr. Molyneux, Sir Hugh, Mr.
                        Bantison, every one of them, in short, recognized him. In spite of his
                        smooth face and his light hair, the adventurer Beaucaire was writ upon him
                        amazing plain. Look at him, madam, if he will dare the inspection. You saw
                        this Beaucaire well, the day of his expulsion from the rooms. Is not this
                        he?"
                    M. Beaucaire stepped close to her. Her pale face twitched.
                    "Look!" he said.
                    "Oh, oh!" she whispered with a dry throat, and fell back in
                        the carriage.
                    "Is it so?" cried the Duke.
                    "I do not know.Icannot tell."
                    "One moment more. I begged  these
                        gentlemen to allow me to wipe out the insult I had unhappily offered to
                        Bath, but particularly to you. They agreed not to forestall me or to
                        interfere. I left Sir John Wimpledon's early, and arranged to give
                        the sorry rascal a lashing under your own eyes, a satisfaction due the lady
                        into whose presence he had dared to force himself."
                    
                        "'Noblesse oblige'?"
                        said M. Beaucaire in a tone of gentle inquiry.
                    "And now, madam," said the Duke, "I will detain
                        you not one second longer. I plead the good purpose of my intentions,
                        begging you to believe that the desire to avenge a hateful outrage, next to
                        the wish to serve you, forms the dearest motive in the heart of
                        Winterset."
                    
                    "Bravo!" cried Beaucaire softly.
                    Lady Mary leaned toward him, a thriving terror in her eyes. "It is
                        false?" she faltered.
                    "Monsieur should not have been born so high. He could have made
                        little book'."
                    "You mean it is false?" she cried breathlessly.
                    "'Od's blood, is she not convinced?"
                        broke out Mr. Bantison. "Fellow, were you not the
                        ambassador's barber?"
                    "It is all false?" she whispered.
                    "The mos' fine art, mademoiselle. How long you think it
                        take M. de Winterset to learn that speech after he write it out? It is a mix
                        of what is true and the mos' chaste art. Monsieur has become a man
                        of letters.  Perhaps he may enjoy that more
                        than the wars. Ha, ha!"
                    Mr. Bantison burst into a roar of laughter. "Do French gentlemen
                        fight lackeys? Ho, ho, ho! A pretty country! We English do as was done
                        to-night, have our servants beat them."
                    "And attend ourselves," added M. Beaucaire, looking at the
                        Duke, "somewhat in the background? But, pardon," he
                        mocked, "that remind' me. Franois, return to Mr. Bantison
                        and these gentlemen their weapons."
                    "Will you answer a question?" said Molyneux mildly.
                    "Oh, with pleasure, monsieur."
                    "Were you ever a barber?"
                    "No, monsieur," laughed the young man.
                    
                    "Pah!" exclaimed Bantison. "Let me question him.
                        Now, fellow, a confession may save you from jail. Do you deny you are
                        Beaucaire?"
                    "Deny to a such judge?"
                    "Ha!" said Bantison. "What more do you want,
                        Molyneux? Fellow, do you deny that you came to London in the
                        ambassador's suite?"
                    "No, I do not deny."
                    "He admits it! Didn't you come as his barber?"
                    "Yes, my frien', as his barber."
                    Lady Mary cried out faintly, and, shuddering, put both hands over her eyes.
                    "I'm sorry," said Molyneux. "You fight
                        like a gentleman."
                    "I thank you, monsieur."
                    
                    "You called yourself Beaucaire?"
                    "Yes, monsieur." He was swaying to and fro; his servants
                        ran to support him.
                    "I wish"continued Molyneux, hesitating. "Evil take
                        me!but I'm sorry you're hurt."
                    "Assist Sir Hugh into my carriage," said Lady Mary.
                    "Farewell, mademoiselle!" M. Beaucaire's voice was
                        very faint. His eyes were fixed upon her face. She did not look toward him.
                    They were propping Sir Hugh on the cushions. The Duke rode up close to
                        Beaucaire, but Franois seized his bridle fiercely, and forced the horse back
                        on its haunches.
                    "The man's servants worship him" said Molyneux.
                    
                    "Curse your insolence!" exclaimed the Duke. "How
                        much am I to bear from this varlet and his varlets? Beaucaire, if you have
                        not left Bath by to-morrow noon, you will be clapped into jail, and the
                        lashing you escaped to-night shall be given you thrice tenfold!"
                    "I shall bein theAssemblyRoom' at nineo'clock, one
                        weekfromto-night," answered the young man, smiling jauntily, though
                        his lips were colorless. The words cost him nearly all his breath and
                        strength. "You mus' keepin thebackgroun',
                        monsieur. Ha, ha!"
                    The door of the coach closed with a slam.
                    "Mademoisellefarewell!"
                    "Drive on!" said Lady Mary.
                    
                    M. Beaucaire followed the carriage with his eyes. As the noise of the wheels
                        and the hoof-beats of the accompanying cavalcade grew fainter in the
                        distance, the handkerchief he had held against his side dropped in-to the
                        white dust, a heavy red splotch.
                    "Onlyroses," he gasped, and fell back in the arms of his
                        servants.
                
                
                
                    Chapter Five
                    
                        BEAU NASH stood at the door of the rooms, smiling blandly
                        upon a dainty throng in the pink of its finery and gay furbelows. The great
                        exquisite bent his body constantly in a series of consummately adjusted
                        bows: before a great dowager, seeming to sweep the floor in august
                        deference; somewhat stately to the young bucks; greeting the wits with
                        gracious  friendliness and a twinkle of
                        raillery; inclining with fatherly gallantry before the beauties; the degree
                        of his inclination measured the altitude of the recipient as accurately as a
                        nicely calculated sand-glass measures the hours.
                    The King of Bath was happy, for wit, beauty, fashionto speak more concretely:
                        nobles, belles, gamesters, beaux, statesmen, and poetsmade fairyland (or
                        opera bouffe, at least) in his dominions; play ran higher and higher, and
                        Mr. Nash's coffers filled up with gold. To crown his pleasure, a
                        prince of the French blood, the young Comte de Beaujolais, just arrived from
                        Paris, had reached Bath at noon in state, accompanied by the Marquis de
                        Mirepoix,  the ambassador of Louis XV. The Beau
                        dearly prized the society of the lofty, and the present visit was an honor
                        to Bath: hence to the Master of Ceremonies. What was better, there would be
                        some profitable hours with the cards and dice. So it was that Mr. Nash
                        smiled never more benignly than on that bright evening. The rooms rang with
                        the silvery voices of women and delightful laughter, while the fiddles went
                        merrily, their melodies chiming sweetly with the joyance of his mood.
                    The skill and brazen effrontery of the ambassador's scoundrelly
                        servant in passing himself off for a man of condition formed the point of
                        departure for every conversation. It was discovered that there were but  three persons present who had not suspected
                        him from the first; and, by a singular paradox, the most astute of all
                        proved to be old Mr. Bicksit, the traveler, once a visitor at Chateaurien;
                        for he, according to report, had by a coup of diplomacy entrapped the
                        impostor into an admission that there was no such place. However, like poor
                        Captain Badger, the worthy old man had held his peace out of regard for the
                        Duke of Winterset. This nobleman, heretofore secretly disliked, suspected of
                        irregular devices at play, and never admired, had won admiration and
                        popularity by his remorse for the mistake, and by the modesty of his
                        attitude in endeavoring to atone for it, without presuming upon the
                        privilege of his rank to  laugh at the
                        indignation of society; an action the more praiseworthy because his exposure
                        of the impostor entailed the disclosure of his own culpability in having
                        stood the villain's sponsor. To-night, the happy gentleman, with
                        Lady Mary Carlisle upon his arm, went grandly about the rooms, sowing and
                        reaping a harvest of smiles. 'Twas said work would be begun at once
                        to rebuild the Duke's country seat, while several ruined Jews might
                        be paid out of prison. People gazing on the beauty and the stately but
                        modest hero by her side, said they would make a noble pair. She had long
                        been distinguished by his attentions, and he had come brilliantly out of the
                        episode of the Frenchman, who  had been his
                        only real rival. Wherever they went, there arose a buzz of pleasing gossip
                        and adulation.
                    Mr. Nash, seeing them near him, came forward with greetings. A word on the
                        side passed between the nobleman and the exquisite.
                    "I had news of the rascal tonight," whispered Nash.
                        "He lay at a farm till yesterday, when he disappeared; his
                        ruffians, too."
                    "You have arranged?" asked the Duke.
                    "Fourteen bailiffs are watching without. He could not come within
                        gunshot. If they clap eyes on him, they will hustle him to jail, and his
                        cutthroats shall not avail him a hair's weight. The impertinent
                        swore he'd be here by nine, did he?"
                    
                    "He said so; and 'tis a rash dog, sir."
                    "It is just nine now."
                    "Send out to see if they have taken him."
                    "Gladly." The Beau beckoned an attendant, and whispered in
                        his ear.
                    Many of the crowd had edged up to the two gentlemen with apparent
                        carelessness, to overhear their conversation. Those who did overhear
                        repeated it in covert asides, and this circulating undertone, confirming a
                        vague rumor that Beaucaire would attempt the entrance that night, lent a
                        pleasurable color of excitement to the evening. The French prince, the
                        ambassador, and their suites were announced. Polite as the assembly  was, it was also curious, and there occurred a
                        mannerly rush to see the newcomers. Lady Mary, already pale, grew whiter as
                        the throng closed round her; she looked up pathetically at the Duke, who
                        lost no time in extricating her from the pressure.
                    "Wait here," he said; "I will fetch you a glass of
                        negus," and disappeared. He had not thought to bring a chair, and
                        she, looking about with an increasing faintness and finding none, saw that
                        she was standing by the door of a small side-room. The crowd swerved back
                        for the passage of the legate of France, and pressed upon her. She opened
                        the door, and went in.
                    The room was empty save for two  gentlemen, who
                        were quietly playing cards at a table. They looked up as she entered. They
                        were M. Beaucaire and Mr. Molyneux.
                    She uttered a quick cry and leaned against the wall, her hand to her breast.
                        Beaucaire, though white and weak, had brought her a chair before Molyneux
                        could stir.
                    "Mademoiselle"
                    "Do not touch me!" she said, with such frozen abhorrence in
                        her voice that he stopped short. "Mr. Molyneux, you seek strange
                        company!"
                    "Madam," replied Molyneux, bowing deeply, as much to
                        Beaucaire as to herself, "I am honored by the presence of both of
                        you."
                    "Oh, are you mad!" she exclaimed, contemptuously.
                    
                    "This gentleman has exalted me with his confidence, madam,"
                        he replied.
                    "Will you add your ruin to the scandal of this fellow's
                        presence here? How he obtained entrance"
                    "Pardon, mademoiselle," interrupted Beaucaire.
                        "Did I not say I should come? M. Molyneux was so obliging as to
                        answer for me to the fourteen frien's of M. de Winterset and Meestaire Nash."
                    "Do you not know," she turned vehemently upon Molyneux,
                        "that he will be removed the moment I leave this room? Do you wish
                        to be dragged out with him? For your sake, sir, because I have always
                        thought you a man of heart, I give you a chance to save yourself from  disgraceandyour companion from jail. Let him
                        slip out by some retired way, and you may give me your arm and we will enter
                        the next room as if nothing had happened. Come, sir"
                    "Mademoiselle"
                    "Mr. Molyneux, I desire to hear nothing from your companion. Had I
                        not seen you at cards with him I should have supposed him in attendance as
                        your lackey. Do you desire to take advantage of my offer, sir?"
                    "Mademoiselle, I could not tell you, on that night"
                    "You may inform your high-born friend, Mr. Molyneux, that I heard
                        everything he had to say; that my pride once had the pleasure of listening
                        to his high-born confession!"
                    
                    "Ah, it is gentle to taunt one with his birth, mademoiselle? Ah, no!
                        There is a man in my country who say strange things of thatthat a man is not
                        his father, but himself."
                    
                    "You may inform your friend, Mr. Molyneux, that he had a chance to
                        defend himself against accusation; that he said all"
                    "That I did say all I could have strength to say. Mademoiselle, you
                        did not seeas it was rightthat I had been stung by a big wasp. It was
                        nothing, a scratch; but, mademoiselle, the sky went round and the moon
                        dance' on the earth. I could not wish that big wasp to see he had
                        stung me; so I mus' only say what I can have strength for, and
                        stan' straight till he is gone. Beside',  there are other rizzons. Ah, you mus'
                        belief! My Molyneux I sen' for, and tell him all, because he show
                        courtesy to the yo'ng Frenchman, and I can trus' him. I
                        trus' you, mademoisellelong agoand would have tol' you
                        ev'rything, excep' jus' becausewell, for the
                        romance, the fon! You belief? It is so clearly so; you do belief,
                        mademoiselle?"
                    She did not even look at him. M. Beaucaire lifted his hand appealingly toward
                        her. "Can there be no faith inin" he said timidly, and
                        paused. She was silent, a statue, my Lady Disdain.
                    "If you had not belief' me to be an impostor; if I had
                        never said I was Chateaurien; if I had been jus' that Monsieur
                        Beaucaire of the story  they tol'
                        you, but never with the heart of a lackey, an
                        hones' man, a man, the man you knew, himself, could youwould you" He was trying to speak
                        firmly; yet, as he gazed upon her splendid beauty, he choked slightly, and
                        fumbled in the lace at his throat with unsteady fingers."Would
                        youhave let me ride by your side in the autumn moonlight?" Her
                        glance passed by him as it might have passed by a footman or a piece of
                        furniture. He was dressed magnificently, a multitude of orders glittering on
                        his breast. Her eye took no knowledge of him.
                    "MademoiselleI have the honor to ask you: if you had known this
                        Beaucaire was hones', though of peasant birth, would you"
                    
                    
                        
                            "She was silent, a statue."
                        
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    Involuntarily, controlled as her icy presence was, she shuddered. There was a
                        moment of silence.
                    "Mr. Molyneux," said Lady Mary, "in spite of your
                        discourtesy in allowing a servant to address me, I offer you a last chance
                        to leave this room undisgraced. Will you give me your arm?"
                    "Pardon me, madam," said Mr. Molyneux.
                    Beaucaire dropped into a chair with his head bent low and his arm
                        outstretched on the table; his eyes filled slowly in spite of himself, and
                        two tears rolled down the young man's cheeks.
                    "An' live men are jus'names!" said M. Beaucaire.
                
                
                
                    Chapter Six
                    
                        IN the outer room, Winterset, unable to find Lady Mary,
                        and supposing her to have joined Lady Reller-ton, disposed of his negus,
                        then approached the two visitors to pay his respects to the young prince,
                        whom he discovered to be a stripling of seventeen, arrogant-looking, but
                        pretty as a girl. Standing beside the Marquis de Mirepoixa man of quiet  bearinghe was surrounded by a group of the
                        great, among whom Mr. Nash naturally counted himself. The Beau was
                        felicitating himself that the foreigners had not arrived a week earlier, in
                        which case he and Bath would have been detected in a piece of gross
                        ignorance concerning the French nobilitymaking much of de
                        Mirepoix's ex-barber.
                    "'Tis a lucky thing that fellow was got out of the
                        way," he ejaculated, under cover.
                    "Thank me for it," rejoined Winterset.
                    An attendant begged Mr. Nash's notice. The head bailiff sent word
                        that Beaucaire had long since entered the building by a side door. It was
                        supposed Mr. Nash had known of it,  and the
                        Frenchmen was not arrested, as Mr. Molyneux was in his company, and said he
                        would be answerable for him. Consternation was so plain on the
                        Beau's trained face that the Duke leaned toward him anxiously.
                    "The villain's in, and Molyneux hath gone mad!"
                    Mr. Bantison, who had been fiercely elbowing his way toward them, joined
                        heads with them. "You may well say he is in," he
                        exclaimed, "and if you want to know where, why, in yonder
                        card-room. I saw him through the half-open door."
                    "What's to be done?" asked the Beau.
                    "Send the bailiffs"
                    "Fie, fie! A file of bailiffs? The scandal!"
                    
                    "Then listen to me," said the Duke. "I'll
                        select half-a-dozen gentlemen, explain the matter, and we'll put
                        him in the center of us and take him out to the bailiffs. 'Twill
                        appear nothing. Do you remain here and keep the attention of Beaujolais and
                        de Mirepoix. Come, Bantison, fetch Townbrake and Harry Rakell yonder;
                        I'll bring the others."
                    Three minutes later, his Grace of Winterset flung wide the card-room door,
                        and, after his friends had entered, closed it.
                    "Ah!" remarked M. Beaucaire quietly. "Six more
                        large men."
                    The Duke, seeing Lady Mary, started; but the angry signs of her interview had
                        not left her face, and reassured him. He offered his hand  to conduct her to the door. "May I
                        have the honor?"
                    "If this is to be known, 'twill be better if I leave after;
                        I should be observed if I went now."
                    "As you will, madam," he answered, not displeased.
                        "And now, you impudent villain," he began, turning to M.
                        Beaucaire, but to fall back astounded. "'Od's
                        blood, the dog hath murdered and robbed some royal prince!" He
                        forgot Lady Mary's presence in his excitement. "Lay hands
                        on him!" he shouted. "Tear those orders from
                        him!"
                    Molyneux threw himself between. "One word!" he cried.
                        "One word before you offer an outrage you will repent all your
                        lives!"
                    
                    "Or let M. de Winterset come alone," laughed M. Beaucaire.
                    "Do you expect me to fight a cutthroat barber, and with bare
                        hands?"
                    "I think one does not expec' monsieur to fight anybody.
                        Would I fight you, you think? That was why I had my
                        servants, that evening we play. I would gladly fight almos' any one
                        in the worl'; but I did not wish to soil my hand with a"
                    "Stuff his lying mouth with his orders!" shouted the Duke.
                    But Molyneux still held the gentlemen back. "One moment,"
                        he cried.
                    "M. de Winterset," said Beaucaire, "of what are
                        you afraid? You calculate well. Beaucaire might have been belief'an
                        impostor that you  yourself expose'?
                        Never! But I was not goin' reveal that secret. You have not absolve
                        me of my promise."
                    "Tell what you like," answered the Duke. "Tell all
                        the wild lies you have time for. You have five minutes to make up your mind
                        to go quietly."
                    "Now you absolve me, then? Ha, ha! Oh, yes! Mademoiselle,"
                        he bowed to Lady Mary, "I have the honor to reques' you
                        leave the room. You shall miss no details if these frien's of yours
                        kill me, on the honor of a French gentleman."
                    "A French what?" laughed Bantison.
                    "Do you dare keep up the pretense?" cried Lord Townbrake.
                        "Know, you villain barber, that your 
                        master, the Marquis de Mirepoix, is in the next room."
                    Molyneux heaved a great sigh of relief. "Shall I" He turned
                        to M. Beaucaire.
                    The young man laughed, and said: "Tell him come here at
                        once."
                    "Impudent to the last!" cried Bantison, as Molyneux hurried
                        from the room.
                    "Now you goin' to see M. Beaucaire's
                        master," said Beaucaire to Lady Mary. "'Tis true
                        what I say, the other night. I cross from France in his suite; my passport
                        say as his barber. Then to pass the ennui of exile, I come
                        to Bath and play for what one will. It kill the time. But when the people
                        hear I have been a servant they come only secretly; and there is  one of themhe has absolve' me of a
                        promise not to speakof him I learn something he cannot wish to be
                        tol'. I make some trouble to learn this thing. Why I should do
                        this? Wellthat is my own rizzon. So I make this man help me in a masque, the
                        unmasking it was, for, as there is no one to know me, I throw off my black
                        wig and become myselfand so I am 'Chateaurien,' Castle
                        No-where. Then this man I use', this Winterset, he"
                    "I have great need to deny these accusations?" said the
                        Duke.
                    "Nay," said Lady Mary wearily.
                    "Shall I tell you why I mus' be 'Victor'
                        and 'Beaucaire' and 'Chateaurien,' and
                        not myself?"
                    "To escape from the bailiffs for 
                        debts for razors and soap," gibed Lord Townbrake.
                    "No, monsieur. In France I have got a cousin who is a man with a
                        very bad temper at some time', and he will never enjoy his
                        relatives to do what he does not wish"
                    He was interrupted by a loud commotion from without. The door was flung open,
                        and the young Count of Beaujolais bounded in and threw his arms about the
                        neck of M. Beaucaire.
                    "Philippe!" he cried. "My brother, I have come to
                        take you back with me."
                    M. de Mirepoix followed him, bowing as a courtier, in deference; but M.
                        Beaucaire took both his hands heartily. Molyneux came after, with Mr. Nash,
                        and closed the door.
                    
                    "My warmest felicitations," said the Marquis.
                        "There is no longer need for your incognito."
                    "Thou best of masters!" said Beaucaire, touching him fondly
                        on the shoulder. "I know. Your courier came safely. And so I am
                        forgiven! But I forget." He turned to the lady. She had begun to
                        tremble exceedingly. "Faires' of all the English
                        fair," he said, as the gentlemen bowed low to her deep courtesy,
                        "I beg the honor to presen' to Lady Mary Carlisle, M. le
                        Comte de Beaujolais. M. de Mirepoix has already the honor. Lady Mary has
                        been very kind to me, my frien's; you mus' help me make my
                        acknowledgment. Mademoiselle and gentlemen, will you give  me that favor to detain you one
                        instan'?"
                    "Henri," he turned to the young Beaujolais, "I
                        wish you had shared my masqueI have been so gay!" The surface of
                        his tone was merry, but there was an undercurrent, weary-sad, to speak of
                        what was the mood, not the manner. He made the effect of addressing every
                        one present, but he looked steadily at Lady Mary. Her eyes were fixed upon
                        him, with a silent and frightened fascination, and she trembled more and
                        more. "I am a great actor, Henri. These gentlemen are yet scarce
                        convince' I am not a lackey! And I mus' tell you that I
                        was jus' now to be expelled for having been a barber!"
                    "Oh, no!" the ambassador cried  out. "He would not be content with me; he would wander over a
                        strange country."
                    "Ha, ha, my Mirepoix! And what is better, one evening I am
                        oblige' to fight some frien's of M. de Winterset there,
                        and some ladies and cavaliers look on, and they still think me a servant.
                        Oh, I am a great actor! 'Tis true there is not a peasant in France
                        who would not have then known one 'born'; but they are
                        wonderful, this English people, holding by an idea once it is in their
                        headsa mos' worthy quality. But my good Molyneux here, he had speak
                        to me with courtesy, jus' because I am a man an'
                        jus' because he is always kind. (I have learn' that his
                        great-grandfather was a Frenchman.)  So I sen
                        to him and tell him ev'rything, and he gain admittance for me here
                        to-night to await my frien's.
                    "I was speaking to messieurs about my cousin, who will meddle in the
                        affair' of his relative'. Well, that gentleman, he make a
                        marriage for me with a good and accomplish' lady, very noble and
                        very beautifuland amiable." (The young count at his elbow started
                        slightly at this, but immediately appeared to wrap himself in a mantle of
                        solemn thought.) "Unfortunately, when my cousin arrange'
                        so, I was a dolt, a little blockhead; I swear to marry for myself and when I
                        please, or never if I like. That lady is all things charming and gentle,
                        and, in truth, she isvery much attach' to mewhy should I  not say it? I am so proud of it. She is very
                        faithful and forgiving and sweet; she would be the same, I think, if Iwere
                        evena lackey. But I? I was a dolt, a little insensible brute; I did not
                        value such thing' then; I was too yo'ng, las'
                        June. So I say to my cousin, 'No, I make my own choosing!'
                        'Little fool,' he answer, 'she is the one for
                        you. Am I not wiser than you?' And he was very angry, and, as he
                        has influence in France, word come' that he will get me put in
                        Vincennes, so I mus' run away quick till his anger is gone. My good
                        frien' Mirepoix is jus' leaving for London; he
                        take' many risk' for my sake; his hairdresser die before
                        he start', so I travel as that poor barber. But my  cousin is a man to be afraid of when he is
                        angry, even in England, and I mus' not get my Mirepoix in trouble.
                        I mus' not be discover' till my cousin is ready to laugh
                        about it all and make it a joke. And there may be spies; so I change my name
                        again, and come to Bath to amuse my retreat with a little gamingI am always
                        fond of that. But three day' ago M. le Marquis send me a courier to
                        say that my brother, who know where I had run away, is come from France to
                        say that my cousin is appease'; he need me for his little theatre,
                        the play cannot go on. I do not need to espouse mademoiselle. All shall be
                        forgiven if I return, and my brother and M. de Mirepoix will meet me in Bath
                        to felicitate.
                    
                    "There is one more thing to say, that is all. I have said I
                        learn' a secret, and use it to make a man introduce me if I will
                        not tell. He has absolve' me of that promise. My frien's,
                        I had not the wish to ruin that man. I was not receive'; Meestaire Nash had reboff me; I had no other way
                        excep' to use this fellow. So I say, 'Take me to Lady
                        Malbourne's ball as "Chateaurien."' I
                        throw off my wig, and shave, and behol', I am M. le Duc de Castle
                        Nowhere. Ha, ha! You see?"
                    The young man's manner suddenly changed. He became haughty,
                        menacing. He stretched out his arm, and pointed at Winterset. "Now
                        I am no 'Beaucaire,' messieurs. I am a French gentleman.
                        The man who  introduce' me at the
                        price of his honor, and then betray' me to redeem it, is that
                        coward, that card-cheat there!"
                    Winterset made a horrible effort to laugh. The gentlemen who surrounded him
                        fell away as from pestilence. "A French gentleman!" he
                        sneered savagely, and yet fearfully. "I don't know who you
                        are. Hide behind as many toys and ribbons as you like; I'll know
                        the name of the man who dares bring such a charge!"
                    "Sir!" cried de Mirepoix sharply, advancing a step towards
                        him; but he checked himself at once. He made a low bow of state, first to
                        the young Frenchman, then to Lady Mary and the company. "Permit  me, Lady Mary and gentlemen," he
                        said, "to assume the honor of presenting you to His Highness,
                        Prince Louis-Philippe de Valois, Duke of Orleans, Duke of Chartres, Duke of
                        Nemours, Duke of Montpensier, First Prince of the Blood Royal, First Peer of
                        France, Lieutenant-General of French Infantry, Governor of Dauphin, Knight
                        of the Golden Fleece, Grand Master of the Order of Notre Dame, of Mount
                        Carmel, and of St. Lazarus in Jerusalem; and cousin to His most Christian
                        Majesty, Louis the Fifteenth, King of France."
                    "Those are a few of my brother's names," whispered
                        Henri of Beaujolais to Molyneux. "Old Mirepoix has the long breath,
                        but it take' a strong man two day' to say all of  them. I can suppose this Winterset
                        know' now who bring the charge!"
                    "Castle Nowhere!" gasped Beau Nash, falling back upon the
                        burly prop of Mr. Bantison's shoulder.
                    "The Duke of Orleans will receive a message from me within the
                        hour!" said Winterset, as he made his way to the door. His face was
                        black with rage and shame.
                    "I tol' you that I would not soil my hand with
                        you," answered the young man. "If you send a message no
                        gentleman will bring it. Whoever shall bear it will receive a little beating
                        from Franois."
                    He stepped to Lady Mary's side. Her head was bent low, her face
                        averted. She seemed to breathe with difficulty, and leaned heavily upon a
                             chair. "Monseigneur,"
                        she faltered in a half whisper, "can youforgive me? It is a
                        bittermistakeI have made. Forgive."
                    "Forgive?" he answered, and his voice was as broken as
                        hers; but he went on, more firmly: "It isnothingless than nothing.
                        There isonly jus' onein thewhole worl' who would not have
                        treat' me the way that you treat' me. It is to her that I
                        am goin' to make reparation. You know something, Henri? I am not
                        goin' back only because the king forgive' me. I am
                        goin' to please him; I am goin' to
                        espouse mademoiselle, our cousin. My frien's, I ask your
                        felicitations."
                    "And the king does not compel him!" exclaimed young Henri.
                    
                    
                        
                            "It is a bitter mistake I have made.
                                Forgive."
                        
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    "Henri, you want to fight me?" cried his brother sharply.
                        "Don' you think the King of France is a wiser man than
                        me?"
                    He offered his hand to Lady Mary.
                    "Mademoiselle is fatigue'. Will she honor me?"
                    He walked with her to the door, her hand fluttering faintly in his. From
                        somewhere about the garments of one of them a little cloud of faded
                        rose-leaves fell, and lay strewn on the floor behind them. He opened the
                        door, and the lights shone on a multitude of eager faces turned toward it.
                        There was a great hum of voices, and, over all, the fiddles wove a wandering
                        air, a sweet French song of the voyageur.
                    
                    He bowed very low, as, with fixed  and
                        glistening eyes, Lady Mary Carlisle, the Beauty of Bath, passed slowly by
                        him and went out of the room.
                
                THE END
            
        
        
            
        
    
