
     ----CITATION---- 
        Major, Charles, 1856-1913. Dorothy Vernon of Haddon Hall: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2454
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                Dorothy Vernon of Haddon Hall
                
            
            
            
            
            
                
                DOROTHY VERNON
                
            
            
            
                
                    Dorothy Vernon of Haddon Hall
                
                BY CHARLES MAJOR AUTHOR OF "WHEN KNIGHTHOOD WAS IN
                    FLOWER," "THE BEARS OF BLUE RIVER,"
                    ETC.
                WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY HOWARD CHANDLER CHRISTY
                
                    New York
                	THE MACMILLAN COMPANY
                	LONDON: 
                	MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.
                	1902
                	All rights reserved
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT, 1902, BY THE MACMILLAN COMPANY.
                Set up and electrotyped April, 1902.
                
                    Norwood Press
                    
                    J. S. Cusbing & Co.—Berwick & Smith
                    
                    Norwood, Mass., U.S.A.
                
            
            
            
                TO MY WIFE
                
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                	A TOUCH OF BLACK MAGIC 1
                	I RIDE DOWN TO HADDON 3
                    THE IRON, THE SEED, THE CLOUD, AND THE RAIN 19
                	III. THE PITCHER GOES TO THE WELL 35
                	IV. THE GOLDEN HEART 62
                	V. MINE ENEMY'S ROOF-TREE 91
                	VI. A DANGEROUS TRIP TO DERBY-TOWN 108
                	VII. TRIBULATION IN HADDON 130
                	VIII. MALCOLM NO. 2 163
                	IX. A TRYST AT BOWLING GREEN GATE 181
                	X. THOMAS THE MAN-SERVANT 211
                	XI. THE COST MARK OF JOY 239
                	XII. THE LEICESTER POSSIBILITY 260
                	XIII. PROUD DAYS FOR THE OLD HALL 281
                	XIV. MARY STUART 302
                	XV. LIGHT 333
                	XVI. LEICESTER WAITS AT THE STILE 360
                
            
            
            
                ILLUSTRATIONS
                
                    Dorothy Vernon 
                            Frontispiece
                        
                    
                    "'He must be some famous, dashing
                    	highwayman'" 28
                    "'I will open the veins in this arm'"
                    	136
                    "Her father's oath had hardly been spoken till the girl
                        tore her bodice from her shoulders" 156
                    "She stood in passive silence" 172
                    "'If you kill him, John, it will break my
                    	heart'" 200
                    "'Ah,' thought I, . . . 'Doll is a
                    	miserable coquette'" 296
                    "She sank to her knees on the dungeon floor" 352
                
            
            
            
                A TOUCH OF BLACK MAGIC
                I DRAW the wizard's circle upon the sands, and blue flames spring from
                    its circumference. I describe an inner circle, and green flames come responsive
                    to my words of magic. I touch the common centre of both with my wand, and red
                    flames, like adders' tongues, leap from the earth. Over these flames I
                    place my caldron filled with the blood of a new-killed doe, and as it boils I
                    speak my incantations and make my mystic signs and passes, watching the
                    blood-red mist as it rises to meet the Spirits of Air. I chant my conjurations
                    as I learned them from the Great Key of Solomon, and while I speak, the ruddy
                    fumes take human forms. Out of the dark, fathomless Past—the Past of
                    near four hundred years ago—comes a goodly company of simple, pompous
                    folk all having a touch of childish savagery which shows itself in the
                    fierceness of their love and of their hate.
                The fairest castle-château in all England's great domain, the walls and
                    halls of which were builded in the depths of time, takes on again its olden form
                    quick with quivering life, and from the gates of Eagle Tower issues my quaint
                    and radiant company. Some are clad in gold lace, silks, and taffetas; some wear
                    leather, buckram and clanking steel. While the caldron boils, their cloud-forms
                    grow ever more distinct and definite, till at length I can trace their every
                    feature. I see the color of their eyes. I discern the shades of their hair. Some
                    heads are streaked with gray; others are glossy with the sheen of youth.  As a climax to my conjurations I speak the word of
                    all words magical, "Dorothy," and lo! as though God had said,
                    "Let there be light," a fair, radiant girl steps from the
                    portals of Haddon Hall and illumines all my ancient company so that I may see
                    even the workings of their hearts.
                They, and the events of their lives, their joys and sorrows, their virtues and
                    sins, their hatreds, jealousies, and loves—the seven numbers in the
                    total sum of life—pass before me as in a panorama, moving when I bid
                    them move, pausing when I bid them pause, speaking when I bid them speak, and
                    alas! fading back into the dim gray limbo of the past long, long ere I would
                    have them go.
                But hark! my radiant shades are about to speak. The play is about to begin.
            
        
        
        
            
                Dorothy Vernon of Haddon Hall
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    I RIDE DOWN TO HADDON
                    
                    SINCE I play no mean part in the events of this chronicle, a few words
                        concerning my own history previous to the opening of the story I am about to
                        tell you will surely not be amiss, and they may help you to a better
                        understanding of my narrative.
                    To begin with an unimportant fact—unimportant, that is, to
                        you—my name is Malcolm François de Lorraine Vernon. My father was
                        cousin-german to Sir George Vernon, at and near whose home, Haddon Hall in
                        Derbyshire, occurred the events which will furnish my theme.
                    Of the ancient lineage of the house of Vernon I need not speak. You already
                        know that the family is one of the oldest in England, and while it is not of
                        the highest nobility, it is quite gentle and noble enough to please those
                        who bear its honored name. My mother boasted nobler blood than that of the
                        Vernons. She was of the princely French house of Guise—a niece and
                        ward to the Great Duke, for whose sake I was named.
                    My father, being a younger brother, sought adventure in the land of France,
                        where his handsome person and engaging manner won the smiles of Dame Fortune
                        and my mother at one and the same cast. In due time I was born, and upon the
                        day following that great event my  father died.
                        On the day of his burial my poor mother, unable to find in me either
                        compensation or consolation for the loss of her child's father,
                        also died, of a broken heart, it was said. But God was right, as usual, in
                        taking my parents; for I should have brought them no happiness, unless
                        perchance they could have moulded my life to a better form than it has
                        had—a doubtful chance, since our great virtues and our chief faults
                        are born and die with us. My faults, alas! have been many and great. In my
                        youth I knew but one virtue: to love my friend; and that was strong within
                        me. How fortunate for us it would be if we could begin our life in wisdom
                        and end it in simplicity, instead of the reverse which now obtains!
                    I remained with my granduncle, the Great Duke, and was brought up amid the
                        fighting, vice, and piety of his sumptuous court. I was trained to arms, and
                        at an early age became Esquire in Waiting to his Grace of Guise. Most of my
                        days between my fifteenth and twenty-fifth years were spent in the wars. At
                        the age of twenty-five I returned to the château, there to reside as my
                        uncle's representative, and to endure the ennui of peace. At the
                        château I found a fair, tall girl, fifteen years of age: Mary France and
                        rightful heiress to the English throne. The ennui of peace, did I say? Soon
                        I had no fear of its depressing effect, for Mary Stuart was one of those
                        women near whose fascinations peace does not thrive. When I found her at the
                        château, my martial ardor lost its warmth. Another sort of flame took up its
                        home in my heart, and no power could have turned me to the wars again.
                    Ah! what a gay, delightful life, tinctured with bitterness, we led in the
                        grand old château, and looking back at it how heartless, godless, and empty
                        it seems. Do not from these words conclude that I am a fanatic, nor that I
                        shall pour into your ears a ranter's tale; for cant is more to be
                        despised  even than godlessness; but during the
                        period of my life of which I shall write I learned—but what I
                        learned I shall in due time tell you.
                    While at the court of Guise I, like many another man, conceived for Mary
                        Stuart a passion which lay heavy upon my heart for many years. Sweethearts I
                        had by the scores, but she held my longings from all of them until I felt
                        the touch of a pure woman's love, and then—but again I am
                        going beyond my story.
                    I did not doubt, nor do I hesitate to say, that my passion was returned by
                        Mary with a fervor which she felt for no other lover; but she was a queen,
                        and I, compared with her, was nobody. For this difference of rank I have
                        since had good cause to be thankful. Great beauty is diffusive in its
                        tendency. Like the sun, it cannot shine for one alone. Still, it burns and
                        dazzles the one as if it shone for him and for no other; and he who basks in
                        its rays need have no fear of the ennui of peace.
                    The time came when I tasted the unutterable bitterness of Mary's
                        marriage to a simpering fool, Francis II., whom she loathed, notwithstanding
                        absurd stories of their sweet courtship and love.
                    After her marriage to Francis, Mary became hard and callous of heart, and all
                        the world knows her sad history. The stories of Darnley, Rizzio, and
                        Bothwell will be rich morsels, I suppose, for the morbid minds of men and
                        women so long as books are read and scandal is loved.
                    Ah, well, that was long ago; so long ago that now as I write it seems but a
                        shadow upon the horizon of time.
                    And so it happened that Francis died, and when the queen went back to
                        Scotland to ascend her native throne, I went with her, and mothlike hovered
                        near the blaze that burned but did not warm me.
                    Then in the course of time came the Darnley tragedy. I saw Rizzio killed.
                        Gods! what a scene for hell was that!  Then
                        followed the Bothwell disgrace, the queen's imprisonment at
                        Lochleven, and my own flight from Scotland to save my head.
                    You will hear of Mary again in this history, and still clinging to her you
                        will find that same strange fatality which during all her life brought evils
                        upon her that were infectious to her friends and wrought their ruin.
                    One evening, in the autumn of the year 1567, I was sitting moodily before my
                        fire in the town of Dundee, brooding over Mary's disgraceful
                        liaison with Bothwell. I had solemnly resolved that I would see her never
                        again, and that I would turn my back upon the evil life I had led for so
                        many years, and would seek to acquire that quiescence of nature which is
                        necessary to an endurable old age. A tumultuous soul in the breast of an old
                        man breeds torture, but age, with the heart at rest, I have found is the
                        best season of life.
                    In the midst of my gloomy thoughts and good resolves my friend, Sir Thomas
                        Douglas, entered my room without warning and in great agitation.
                    "Are you alone?" he asked hurriedly, in a low voice.
                    "Save for your welcome presence, Sir Thomas," I answered,
                        offering my hand.
                    "The queen has been seized," he whispered, "and
                        warrants for high treason have been issued against many of her
                        friends—you among the number. Officers are now coming to serve the
                        writ. I rode hither in all haste to warn you. Lose not a moment, but flee
                        for your life. The Earl of Murray will be made regent
                        to-morrow."
                    "My servant? My horse?" I responded.
                    "Do not wait. Go at once. I shall try to send a horse for you to
                        Craig's ferry. If I fail, cross the firth without one. Here is a
                        purse. The queen sends it to you. Go! Go!"
                    I acted upon the advice of Sir Thomas and hurried into the street, snatching
                        up my hat, cloak, and sword as I  went. Night
                        had fallen, and darkness and rain, which at first I was inclined to curse,
                        proved to be my friends. I sought the back streets and alleys and walked
                        rapidly toward the west gates of the city. Upon arriving at the gates I
                        found them closed. I aroused the warden, and with the artful argument of
                        gold had almost persuaded him to let me pass. My evident eagerness was my
                        undoing, for in the hope of obtaining more gold the warden delayed opening
                        the gates till two men approached on horseback, and, dismounting, demanded
                        my surrender.
                    I laughed and said: "Two against one! Gentlemen, I am
                        caught." I then drew my sword as if to offer it to them. My action
                        threw the men off their guard, and when I said, "Here it
                        is," I gave it to the one standing near me, but I gave it to him
                        point first and in the heart.
                    It was a terrible thing to do, and bordered so closely on a broken parole
                        that I was troubled in conscience. I had not, however, given my parole, nor
                        had I surrendered; and if I had done so—if a man may take
                        another's life in self-defence, may he not lie to save himself?
                    The other man shot at me with his fusil, but missed. He then drew his sword;
                        but he was no match for me, and soon I left him sprawling on the ground,
                        dead or alive, I knew not which.
                    At the time of which I write I was thirty-five years of age, and since my
                        fifteenth birthday my occupations had been arms and the ladies—two
                        arts requiring constant use if one would remain expert in their
                        practice.
                    I escaped, and ran along the wall to a deep breach which had been left
                        unrepaired. Over the sharp rocks I clambered, and at the risk of breaking my
                        neck I jumped off the wall into the moat, which was almost dry. Dawn was
                        breaking when I found a place to ascend from the moat, and I hastened to the
                        fields and forests, where all day and all night long I wandered without food
                        or drink. Two  hours before sunrise next morning
                        I reached Craig's Ferry. The horse sent by Douglas awaited me, but
                        the ferry-master had been prohibited from carrying passengers across the
                        firth, and I could not take the horse in a small boat. In truth, I was in
                        great alarm lest I should be unable to cross, but I walked up the Tay a
                        short distance, and found a fisherman, who agreed to take me over in his
                        frail craft. Hardly had we started when another boat put out from shore in
                        pursuit of us. We made all sail, but our pursuers overtook us when we were
                        within half a furlong of the south bank, and as there were four men in the
                        other boat, all armed with fusils, I peaceably stepped into their craft and
                        handed my sword to their captain.
                    I seated myself on one of the thwarts well forward in the boat. By my side
                        was a heavy iron boat-hook. I had noticed that all the occupants of the
                        boat, except the fisherman who sailed her, wore armor; and when I saw the
                        boat-hook, a diabolical thought entered my mind and I immediately acted upon
                        its suggestion. Noiselessly I grasped the hook, and with its point pried
                        loose a board in the bottom of the boat, first having removed my boots,
                        cloak, and doublet. When the board was loosened I pressed my heel against it
                        with all the force I could muster, and through an opening six inches broad
                        and four feet long came a flood of water that swamped the boat before one
                        could utter twenty words. I heard a cry from one of the men: "The
                        dog has scuttled the boat. Shoot him!" At the same instant the
                        blaze and noise of two fusils broke the still blackness of the night, but I
                        was overboard and the powder and lead were wasted. The next moment the boat
                        sank in ten fathoms of water, and with it went the men in armor. I hope the
                        fisherman saved himself. I have often wondered if even the law of
                        self-preservation justified my act. It is an awful thing to inflict death,
                        but it is worse to endure it, and I feel sure that I am foolish  to allow my conscience to trouble me for the
                        sake of those who would have led me back to the scaffold.
                    I fear you will think that six dead men in less than as many pages make a
                        record of bloodshed giving promise of terrible things to come, but I am glad
                        I can reassure you on that point. Although there may be some good fighting
                        ahead of us, I believe the last man has been killed of whom I shall
                        chronicle—the last, that is, in fight or battle.
                    In truth, the history which you are about to read is not my own. It is the
                        story of a beautiful, wilful girl, who was madly in love with the one man in
                        all the world whom she should have avoided—as girls are wont to be.
                        This perverse tendency, philosophers tell us, is owing to the fact that the
                        unattainable is strangely alluring to womankind. I, being a man, shall not,
                        of course, dwell upon the foibles of my own sex. It were a foolish
                        candor.
                    As I said, there will be some good fighting ahead of us, for love and battle
                        usually go together. One must have warm, rich blood to do either well; and,
                        save religion, there is no source more fruitful of quarrels and death than
                        that passion which is the source of life.
                    You, of course, know without the telling, that I reached land safely after I
                        scuttled the boat, else I should not be writing this forty years
                        afterwards.
                    The sun had risen when I waded ashore. I was swordless, coatless, hatless,
                        and bootless; but I carried a well-filled purse in my belt. Up to that time
                        I had given no thought to my ultimate destination; but being for the moment
                        safe, I pondered the question and determined to make my way to Haddon Hall
                        in Derbyshire, where I was sure a warm welcome would await me from my
                        cousin, Sir George Vernon. How I found a peasant's cottage,
                        purchased a poor horse and a few coarse garments, and how in the disguise of
                        a peasant I rode southward to  the English
                        border, avoiding the cities and the main highways, might interest you; but I
                        am eager to come to my story, and I will not tell you of my perilous
                        journey.
                    One frosty morning, after many hairbreadth escapes, I found myself well
                        within the English border, and turned my horse's head toward the
                        city of Carlisle. There I purchased a fine charger. I bought clothing fit
                        for a gentleman, a new sword, a hand-fusil, a breastplate, and a steel-lined
                        cap, and feeling once again like a man rather than like a half-drowned rat,
                        I turned southward for Derbyshire and Haddon Hall.
                    When I left Scotland I had no fear of meeting danger in England; but at
                        Carlisle I learned that Elizabeth held no favor toward Scottish refugees. I
                        also learned that the direct road from Carlisle to Haddon, by way of Buxton,
                        was infested with English spies who were on the watch for friends of the
                        deposed Scottish queen. Several Scotchmen had been arrested, and it was the
                        general opinion that upon one pretext or another they would be hanged. I
                        therefore chose a circuitous road leading to the town of Derby, which lay
                        south of Haddon at a distance of six or seven leagues. It would be safer for
                        me to arrive at Haddon travelling from the south than from the north. Thus,
                        after many days, I rode into Derby-town and stabled my horse at the Royal
                        Arms.
                    I called for supper, and while I was waiting for my joint of beef a stranger
                        entered the room and gave his orders in a free, offhand manner that stamped
                        him a person of quality.
                    The night outside was cold. While the stranger and I sat before the fire we
                        caught its infectious warmth, and when he showed a disposition to talk, I
                        gladly fell in with his humor. Soon we were filling our glasses from the
                        same bowl of punch, and we seemed to be on good terms with each other. But
                        when God breathed into the human  body a part
                        of himself, by some mischance He permitted the devil to slip into the tongue
                        and loosen it. My tongue, which ordinarily was fairly well behaved, upon
                        this occasion quickly brought me into trouble.
                    I told you that the stranger and I seemed to be upon good terms. And so we
                        were until I, forgetting for the moment Elizabeth's hatred of
                        Mary's friends, and hoping to learn the stranger's name
                        and quality, said:—
                    "My name is Vernon—Sir Malcolm Vernon, knight by the hand
                        of Queen Mary of Scotland and of France." This remark, of course,
                        required that my companion should in return make known his name and degree;
                        but in place of so doing he at once drew away from me and sat in silence. I
                        was older than he, and it had seemed to me quite proper and right that I
                        should make the first advance. But instantly after I had spoken I regretted
                        my words. I remembered not only my danger, being a Scottish refugee, but I
                        also bethought me that I had betrayed myself. Aside from those causes of
                        uneasiness, the stranger's conduct was an insult which I was in
                        duty bound not to overlook. Neither was I inclined to do so, for I loved to
                        fight. In truth, I loved all things evil.
                    "I regret, sir," said I, after a moment or two of
                        embarrassing silence, "having imparted information that seems to
                        annoy you. The Vernons, whom you may not know, are your equals in blood, it
                        matters not who you are."
                    "I know of the Vernons," he replied coldly, "and I
                        well know that they are of good blood and lineage. As for wealth, I am told
                        Sir George could easily buy the estates of any six men in
                        Derbyshire."
                    "You know Sir George?" I asked despite myself.
                    "I do not know him, I am glad to say," returned the
                        stranger.
                    "By God, sir, you shall answer—"
                    "At your pleasure, Sir Malcolm."
                    
                    "My pleasure is now," I retorted eagerly.
                    I threw off my doublet and pushed the table and chairs against the wall to
                        make room for the fight; but the stranger, who had not drawn his sword,
                        said:—
                    "I have eaten nothing since morning, and I am as hungry as a wolf. I
                        would prefer to fight after supper; but if you
                        insist—"
                    "I do insist," I replied. "Perhaps you will not
                        care for supper when I have—"
                    "That may be true," he interrupted; "but before we
                        begin I think it right to tell you, without at all meaning to boast of my
                        skill, that I can kill you if I wish to do so. Therefore you must see that
                        the result of our fight will be disagreeable to you in any case. You will
                        die, or you will owe me your life."
                    His cool impertinence angered me beyond endurance. He to speak of killing me,
                        one of the best swordsmen in France, where the art of sword-play is really
                        an art! The English are but bunglers with a gentleman's blade, and
                        should restrict themselves to pike and quarterstaff.
                    "Results be damned!" I answered. "I can kill you
                        if I wish." Then it occurred to me that I really did not wish to
                        kill the handsome young fellow toward whom I felt an irresistible
                        attraction.
                    I continued: "But I prefer that you should owe me your life. I do
                        not wish to kill you. Guard!"
                    My opponent did not lift his sword, but smilingly said:—
                    "Then why do you insist upon fighting? I certainly do not wish to
                        kill you. In truth, I would be inclined to like you if you were not a
                        Vernon."
                    "Damn your insolence! Guard! or I will run you through where you
                        stand," I answered angrily.
                    "But why do we fight?" insisted the stubborn fellow, with a
                        coolness that showed he was not one whit in fear of me.
                    
                    "You should know," I replied, dropping my sword-point to
                        the floor, and forgetting for the moment the cause of our quarrel.
                        "I—I do not."
                    "Then let us not fight," he answered, "until we
                        have discovered the matter of our disagreement."
                    At this remark neither of us could resist smiling. I had not fought since
                        months before, save for a moment at the gates of Dundee, and I was loath to
                        miss the opportunity, so I remained in thought during the space of half a
                        minute and remembered our cause of war.
                    "Oh! I recall the reason for our fighting," I replied,
                        "and a good one it was. You offered affront to the name of Sir
                        George Vernon, and insultingly refused me the courtesy of your name after I
                        had done you the honor to tell you mine."
                    "I did not tell you my name," replied the stranger,
                        "because I believed you would not care to hear it; and I said I was
                        glad not to know Sir George Vernon because—because he is my
                        father's enemy. I am Sir John Manners. My father is Lord
                        Rutland."
                    Then it was my turn to recede. "You certainly are right. I do not
                        care to hear your name."
                    I put my sword in its scabbard and drew the table back to its former place.
                        Sir John stood in hesitation for a moment or two, and then
                        said:—
                    "Sir Malcolm, may we not declare a truce for tonight? There is
                        nothing personal in the enmity between us."
                    "Nothing," I answered, staring at the fire, half regretful
                        that we bore each other enmity at all.
                    "You hate me, or believe you do," said Manners,
                        "because your father's cousin hates my father; and I try
                        to make myself believe that I hate you because my father hates your
                        father's cousin. Are we not both mistaken?"
                    I was quick to anger and to fight, but no man's heart  was more sensitive than mine to the fair touch
                        of a kind word.
                    "I am not mistaken, Sir John, when I say that I do not hate
                        you," I answered.
                    "Nor do I hate you, Sir Malcolm. Will you give me your
                        hand?"
                    "Gladly," I responded, and I offered my hand to the enemy
                        of my house.
                    "Landlord," I cried, "bring us two bottles of your
                        best sack. The best in the house, mind you."
                    After our amicable understanding, Sir John and myself were very comfortable
                        together, and when the sack and roast beef, for which the Royal Arms was
                        justly famous, were brought in, we sat down to an enjoyable meal.
                    After supper Sir John lighted a small roll or stick made from the leaves of
                        tobacco. The stick was called a cigarro, and I, proud not to be behind him
                        in new-fashioned, gentlemanly accomplishments, called to the landlord for a
                        pipe. Manners interrupted me when I gave the order and offered me a cigarro
                        which I gladly accepted.
                    Despite my effort to reassure myself, I could not quite throw off a feeling
                        of uneasiness whenever I thought of the manner in which I had betrayed to
                        Sir John the fact that I was a friend to Mary Stuart. I knew that treachery
                        was not native to English blood, and my knowledge of mankind had told me
                        that the vice could not live in Sir John Manners's heart. But he
                        had told me of his residence at the court of Elizabeth, and I feared trouble
                        might come to me from the possession of so dangerous a piece of knowledge by
                        an enemy of my house.
                    I did not speak my thoughts upon the matter, and we sat the evening through
                        discussing many subjects. We warmed toward each other and became quite
                        confidential. I feel ashamed when I admit that one of my many sins was an
                        excessive indulgence in wine. While I was not a  drunkard, I was given to my cups sometimes in a degree both dangerous and
                        disgraceful; and during the evening of which I have just spoken I talked to
                        Sir John with a freedom that afterward made me blush, although my
                        indiscretion brought me no greater trouble.
                    My outburst of confidence was prompted by Sir John's voluntary
                        assurance that I need fear nothing from having told him that I was a friend
                        of Queen Mary. The Scottish queen's name had been mentioned, and
                        Sir John had said:—
                    "I take it, Sir Malcolm, that you are newly arrived in England, and
                        I feel sure you will accept the advice I am about to offer in the kindly
                        spirit in which it is meant. I deem it unsafe for you to speak of Queen
                        Mary's friendship in the open manner you have used toward me. Her
                        friends are not welcome visitors to England, and I fear evil will befall
                        those who come to us as refugees. You need have no fear that I will betray
                        you. Your secret is safe with me. I will give you hostage. I also am Queen
                        Mary's friend. I would not, of course, favor her against the
                        interest of our own queen. To Elizabeth I am and always shall be loyal; but
                        the unfortunate Scottish queen has my sympathy in her troubles, and I should
                        be glad to help her. I hear she is most beautiful and gentle in
                        person."
                    Thus you see the influence of Mary's beauty reached from Edinburgh
                        to London. A few months only were to pass till this conversation was to be
                        recalled by each of us, and the baneful influence of Mary's beauty
                        upon all whom it touched was to be shown more fatally than had appeared even
                        in my own case. In truth, my reason for speaking so fully concerning the
                        Scottish queen and myself will be apparent to you in good time.
                    When we were about to part for the night, I asked Sir John, "What
                        road do you travel to-morrow?"
                    
                    "I am going to Rutland Castle by way of Rowsley," he
                        answered.
                    "I, too, travel by Rowsley to Haddon Hall. Shall we not extend our
                        truce over the morrow and ride together as far as Rowsley?" I
                        asked.
                    "I shall be glad to make the truce perpetual," he replied
                        laughingly.
                    "So shall I," was my response.
                    Thus we sealed our compact and knitted out of the warp and woof of enmity a
                        friendship which became a great joy and a sweet grief to each of us.
                    That night I lay for hours thinking of the past and wondering about the
                        future. I had tasted the sweets—all flavored with
                        bitterness—of court life. Women, wine, gambling, and fighting had
                        given me the best of all the evils they had to offer. Was I now to drop that
                        valorous life, which men so ardently seek, and was I to take up a browsing,
                        kinelike existence at Haddon Hall, there to drone away my remaining days in
                        fat'ning, peace, and quietude? I could not answer my own question,
                        but this I knew: that Sir George Vernon was held in high esteem by
                        Elizabeth, and I felt that his house was, perhaps, the only spot in England
                        where my head could safely lie. I also had other plans concerning Sir George
                        and his household which I regret to say I imparted to Sir John in the
                        sack-prompted outpouring of my confidence. The plans of which I shall now
                        speak had been growing in favor with me for several months previous to my
                        enforced departure from Scotland, and that event had almost determined me to
                        adopt them. Almost, I say, for when I approached Haddon Hall I wavered in my
                        resolution.
                    At the time when I had last visited Sir George at Haddon, his daughter
                        Dorothy—Sir George called her Doll—was a slipshod girl of
                        twelve. She was exceedingly plain, and gave promise of always so remaining.
                        Sir George,  who had no son, was anxious that
                        his vast estates should remain in the Vernon name. He had upon the occasion
                        of my last visit intimated to me that when Doll should become old enough to
                        marry, and I, perchance, had had my fill of knocking about the world, a
                        marriage might be brought about between us which would enable him to leave
                        his estates to his daughter and still to retain the much-loved Vernon name
                        for his descendants.
                    Owing to Doll's rusty red hair, slim shanks, and freckled face, the
                        proposition had not struck me with favor, yet to please Sir George I had
                        feigned acquiescence, and had said that when the time should come, we would
                        talk it over. Before my flight from Scotland I had often thought of Sir
                        George's proposition made six or seven years before. My love for
                        Mary Stuart had dimmed the light of other beauties in my eyes, and I had
                        never married. For many months before my flight, however, I had not been
                        permitted to bask in the light of Mary's smiles to the extent of my
                        wishes. Younger men, among them Darnley, who was but eighteen years of age,
                        were preferred to me, and I had begun to consider the advisability of an
                        orderly retreat from the Scottish court before my lustre should be entirely
                        dimmed. It is said that a man is young so long as he is strong, and I was
                        strong as in the days of my youth. My cheeks were fresh, my eyes were
                        bright, and my hair was red as when I was twenty, and without a thread of
                        gray. Still, my temperament was more exacting and serious, and the thought
                        of becoming settled for life, or rather for old age and death, was growing
                        in favor with me. With that thought came always a suggestion of slim,
                        freckled Dorothy and Sir George's offer. She held out to me wealth
                        and position, a peaceful home for my old age, and a grave with a pompous,
                        pious epitaph at Bakewell church, in death.
                    When I was compelled to leave Scotland, circumstances  forced me to a decision, and my resolution was quickly taken. I
                        would go to Derbyshire and would marry Dorothy. I did not expect ever again
                        to feel great love for a woman. The fuse, I thought, had burned out when I
                        loved Mary Stuart. One woman, I believed, was like another to me, and
                        Dorothy would answer as well as any for my wife. I could and would be kind
                        to her, and that alone in time would make me fond. It is true, my affection
                        would be of a fashion more comfortable than exciting; but who, having passed
                        his galloping youth, will contemn the joys that come from making others
                        happy? I believe there is no person, past the age of forty, at all given to
                        pondering the whys of life, who will gainsay that the joy we give to others
                        is our chief source of happiness. Why, then, should not a wise man, through
                        purely selfish motives, begin early to cultivate the gentle art of giving
                        joy?
                    But the fates were to work out the destinies of Dorothy and myself without
                        our assistance. Self-willed, arrogant creatures are those same fates, but
                        they save us a deal of trouble by assuming our responsibilities.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    The IRON, THE SEED, THE CLOUD, AND THE RAIN
                    
                    THE morning following my meeting with Manners, he and I made an early start.
                        An hour before noon we rode into the town of Rowsley and halted at The
                        Peacock for dinner.
                    When we entered the courtyard of the inn we saw three ladies warmly wrapped
                        in rich furs leave a ponderous coach and walk to the inn door, which they
                        entered. One of them was an elderly lady whom I recognized as my cousin,
                        Lady Dorothy Crawford, sister to Sir George Vernon. The second was a tall,
                        beautiful girl, with an exquisiute ivory-like complexion and a wonderrful
                        crown of fluffy red hair which encircled her head like a halo of sunlit
                        glory. I could compare its wondrous lustre to no color save that of molten
                        gold deeply alloyed with copper. But that comparison tells you nothing. I
                        can find no simile with which to describe the beauties of its shades and
                        tints. It was red, but it also was golden, as if the enamoured sun had
                        gilded every hair with its radiance. In all my life I had never seen
                        anything so beautiful as this tall girl's hair. Still, it was the
                        Vernon red. My cousin, Sir George, and many Vernons had hair of the same
                        color. Yet the girl's hair differed from all other I had ever seen.
                        It had a light and a lustre of its own which was as distinct from the
                        ordinary Vernon red, although that is very good and we are proud of it, as
                        the sheen of gold is from  the glitter of
                        brass. I knew by the girl's hair that she was my cousin, Dorothy
                        Vernon, whom I reluctantly had come to wed.
                    I asked myself, "Can this be the plain, freckled girl I knew seven
                        years ago?" Compared with her beauty even Mary Stuart's
                        was pale as the vapid moon at dawn. The girl seemed to be the incarnated
                        spirit of universal life and light, and I had condescendingly come to marry
                        this goddess. I felt a dash of contemptuous pity for my complacent self.
                    In my cogitations concerning marriage with Dorothy Vernon, I had not at all
                        taken into consideration her personal inclination. A girl, after all, is but
                        the chattel of her father, and must, perforce, if needs be, marry the man of
                        the question, a girl with brick-red hair and a multitude of freckles need
                        not be considered when an agreeable, handsome man offers himself as a
                        husband. She usually is willing to the point of eagerness. That is the
                        manner in which I had thought about Dorothy Vernon, if I considered her at
                        all. But when a man is about to offer himself to a goddess, he is apt to
                        pause. In such a case there are always two sides to the question, and nine
                        chances to one the goddess will coolly take possession of both. When I saw
                        Dorothy in the courtyard of The Peacock, I instantly knew that she was a
                        girl to be taken into account in all matters wherein she was personally
                        concerned. Her every feature, every poise and gesture, unconsciously bore
                        the stamp of "I will" or "I will
                        not."
                    Walking by Dorothy's side, holding her hand, was a fair young woman
                        whose hair was black, and whose skin was of the white, clear complexion such
                        as we see in the faces of nuns. She walked with a hesitating, cautious step,
                        and clung to Dorothy, who was gentle and attentive to her.  But of this fair, pale girl I have so much to
                        say in the pages to come that I shall not further describe her here.
                    When the ladies had entered the inn, my companion and I dismounted, and
                        Manners exclaimed:—
                    "Did you see the glorious girl who but now entered the inn door?
                        Gods! I never before saw such beauty."
                    "Yes," I replied, "I know her."
                    "How fortunate I am," said Sir John. "Perhaps I
                        may induce you to present me to her. At least you will tell me her name,
                        that I may seek her acquaintance by the usual means. I am not susceptible,
                        but by my faith, I—I—she looked at me from the door-steps,
                        and when I caught her eyes it seemed—that is, I saw—or I
                        felt a stream of burning life enter my soul, and—but you will think
                        I am a fool. I know I am a fool. But I feel as if I were—as if I
                        had been bewitched in one little second of time, and by a single glance from
                        a pair of brown eyes. You certainly will think I am a fool, but you cannot
                        understand—"
                    "Why can't I understand?" I asked indignantly.
                        "The thing you have seen and felt has been in this world long
                        enough for every man to understand. Eve used it upon Adam. I can't
                        understand? Damme, sir, do you think I am a clod? I have felt it fifty
                        times."
                    "Not—"began Sir John, hesitatingly.
                    "Nonsense!? replied. "You, too, will have the same
                        experience fifty times again before you are my age."
                    "But the lady," said Sir John, "tell me of her.
                        Will you—can you present me to her? If not, will you tell me who
                        she is?"
                    I remained for a moment in thought, wondering if it were right for me to tell
                        him that the girl whom he so much admired was the daughter of his
                        father's enemy. I could see no way of keeping Dorothy's
                        name from him, so I determined to tell him.
                    "She is my cousin, Mistress Dorothy Vernon," I said.
                    
                    "The eldest lady is Lady Dorothy Crawford. The beautiful, pale girl
                        I do not know."
                    "I am sorry," returned Sir John; "she is the lady
                        whom you have come to marry, is she not?"
                    "Y-e-s," said I, hesitatingly.
                    "You certainly are to be congratulated," returned
                        Manners.
                    "I doubt if I shall marry her,"I replied.
                    "Why?" asked Manners.
                    "For many reasons, chief among which is her beauty."
                    That is an unusual reason for declining a woman," responded Sir
                        John, with a low laugh.
                    "I think it is quite usual," I replied, having in mind the
                        difficulty with which great beauties are won. But I continued, "A
                        woman of moderate beauty makes a safer wife, and in the long run is more
                        comforting than one who is too attractive."
                    "You are a philosopher, Sir Malcolm," said Manners,
                        laughingly.
                    "And a liar," I muttered to myself. I felt sure, however,
                        that I should never marry Dorothy Vernon, and I do not mind telling you,
                        even at this early stage in my history, that I was right in my premonition.
                        I did not marry her.
                    "I suppose I shall now be compelled to give you up to your
                        relatives," said Manners.
                    "Yes," I returned, "we must say good-by for the
                        present; but if we do not meet again, it shall not be for the lack of my
                        wishing. Your father and Sir George would feel deeply injured, should they
                        learn of our friendship, therefore—"
                    "You are quite right," he interrupted. "It is
                        better that no one should know of it. Nevertheless, between you and me let
                        there be no feud."
                    "The secrecy of our friendship will give it zest," said
                        I.
                    "That is true, but 'good wine needs no bush.' You
                        will not mention my name to the ladies?"
                    
                    "No, if you wish that I shall not."
                    "I do so wish."
                    When the stable boys had taken our horses, I gave my hand to Sir John, after
                        which we entered the inn and treated each other as strangers.
                    Soon after I had washed the stains of travel from my hands and face, I sent
                        the maid to my cousins, asking that I might be permitted to pay my
                        devotions, and Dorothy came to the tap-room in response to my message.
                    When she entered she ran to me with outstretched hands and a gleam of welcome
                        in her eyes. We had been rare friends when she was a child.
                    "Ah, Cousin Malcolm, what a fine surprise you have given
                        us!" she exclaimed, clasping both my hands and offering me her
                        cheek to kiss. "Father's delight will beyond measure when
                        he sees you."
                    "As mine now is,"I responded, gazing at her from head to
                        foot and drinking in her beauty with my eyes. "Doll! Doll! What a
                        splendid girl you have become. Who would have thought
                        that—that—" I hesitated, realizing that I was
                        rapidly getting myself into trouble.
                    "Say it. Say it, cousin! I know what is in your mind. Rusty red
                        hair, angular shoulders, sharp elbows, freckles thickly set as stars upon a
                        clear night, and so large and brown that they fairly twinkled. Great staring
                        green eyes. Awkward!—" And she threw up her hands in mimic
                        horror at the remembrance. "No one could have supposed that such a
                        girl would have become—that is, you know," she continued
                        confusedly, "could have changed. I haven't a freckle
                        now," and she lifted her face that I might prove the truth of her
                        words by examination, and perhaps that I might also observe her beauty.
                    Neither did I waste the opportunity. I dwelt longingly upon the wondrous red
                        golden hair which fringed her low broad forehead, and upon the heavy black
                        eyebrows, the  pencilled points of whose curves
                        almost touched across the nose. I saw the rose-tinted ivory of her skin and
                        the long jet lashes curving in a great sweep from her full white lids, and I
                        thought full sure that Venus herself was before me. My gaze halted for a
                        moment at the long eyes which changed chameleon-like with the shifting
                        light, and varied with her moods from deep fathomless green to violet, and
                        from violet to soft voluptuous brown, but in all their tints beaming forth a
                        lustre that would have stirred the soul of an anchorite. Then I noted the
                        beauty of her clean-cut saucy nose and the red arch of her lips, slightly
                        parted for the purpose of showing her teeth. But I could not stop long to
                        dwell upon any one especial feature, for there were still to be seen her
                        divine round chin, her large white throat, and the infinite grace in poise
                        and curve of her strong young form. I dared not pause nor waste my time if I
                        were to see it all, for such a girl as Dorothy waits no man's
                        leisure—that is, unless she wishes to wait. In such case there is
                        no moving her, and patience becomes to her a delightful virtue.
                    After my prolonged scrutiny Dorothy lowered her face and said
                        laughingly:—
                    "Now come, cousin, tell me the truth. Who would have thought it
                        possible?"
                    "Not I, Doll, not I, if you will pardon me the
                        frankness."
                    "Oh, that is easily done." Then with a merry ripple of
                        laughter, "It is much easier, I fancy, for a woman to speak of the
                        time when she was plain than to refer to the time when—when she was
                        beautiful. What an absurd speeh that is for me to make," she said
                        confusedly.
                    "I certainly did not expect to find so great a change,"
                        said I. "Why, Doll, you are wondrous, glorious, beautiful. I
                        can't find words—"
                    "Then don't try, Cousin Malcolm, "she said with a
                        smile  that fringed her mouth in dimples.
                        "Don't try. You will make me vain."
                    "You are that already, Doll, "I answered, to tease her.
                    "I fear I am, cousin—vain as a man. But don't call
                        me Doll. I am tall enough to be called Dorothy."
                    She straightened herself up to her full height, and stepping close to my
                        side, said: "I am as tall as you. I will now try to make you vain.
                        You look just as young and as handsome as when I last saw you and so
                        ardently admired your waving black mustachio and your curling chin
                        beard."
                    "Did you admire them, Doll—Dorothy?" I asked,
                        hoping, though with little faith, that the admiration might still
                        continue.
                    "Oh, prodigiously," she answered with unassuring candor.
                        "Prodigiously. Now who is vain, Cousin Malcolm François de Lorraine
                        Vernon?"
                    "I," I responded, shrugging my shoulders and confessing by
                        compulsion.
                    "But you must remember," she continued provokingly,
                        "that a girl of twelve is very immature in her judgment and will
                        fall in love with any man who allows her to look upon him
                        twice."
                    "Then I am to believe that the fire begins very early to burn in the
                        feminine heart," I responded.
                    "With birth, my cousin, with birth," she replied;
                        "but in my heart it burned itself out upon your curling beard at
                        the mature age of twelve."
                    "And you have never been in love since that time,
                        Doll—Dorothy?" I asked with more earnestness in my heart
                        than in my voice.
                    "No, no; by the Virgin, no! Not even in the shadow of a thought. And
                        by the help of the Virgin I hope I never shall be; for when it comes to me,
                        mark my word, cousin, there will be trouble in Derbyshire."
                    "By my soul, I believe you speak the truth," I answered,
                             little dreaming how quickly our joint
                        prophecy would come true.
                    I then asked Dorothy to tell me about her father.
                    "Father is well in health," she said. "In mind he
                        has been much troubled and disturbed. Last month he lost the lawsuit against
                        detestable old Lord Rutland. He was much angered by the loss, and has been
                        moody and morose in brooding over it ever since. He tries, poor father, to
                        find relief from his troubles, and—and I fear takes too much
                        liquor. Rutland and his friends swore to one lie upon another, and father
                        believes that the judge who tried the case was bribed. Father intends to
                        appeal to Parliament, but even in Parliament he fears he cannot obtain
                        justice. Lord Rutland's son—a disreputable fellow, who for
                        many years has lived at court—is a favorite with the queen, and his
                        acquaintance with her Majesty and with the lords will be to
                        father's prejudice."
                    "I have always believed that your father stood in the
                        queen's good graces?" I said interrogatively.
                    "So he does, but I have been told that this son of Lord Rutland,
                        whom I have never seen, has the beauty of—of the devil, and
                        exercises a great influence over her Majesty and her friends. The young man
                        is not known in this neighborhood, for he has never deigned to leave the
                        court; but Lady Cavendish tells me he has all the fascinations of Satan. I
                        would that Satan had him."
                    "The feud still lives between Vernon and Rutland?"
                        asked.
                    "Yes, and it will continue to live so long as an ounce of blood can
                        hold a pound of hatred," said the girl, with flashing eyes and hard
                        lips. "I love to hate the accursed race. They have wronged our
                        house for three generations, and my father has suffered greater injury at
                        their hands than any of our name. Let us not talk of the hateful
                        subject."
                    We changed the topic. I had expected Dorothy to in  vite me to go with her to meet Lady Crawford, but the girl
                        seemed disinclined to leave the tap-room. The Peacock was her
                        father's property, and the host and hostess were her friends after
                        the manner of persons in their degree. Therefore Dorothy felt at liberty to
                        visit the taproom quite as freely as if it had been the kitchen of Haddon
                        Hall.
                    During our conversation I had frequently noticed Dorothy glancing slyly in
                        the direction of the fireplace; but my back was turned that way, and I did
                        not know, nor did it at first occur to me to wonder what attracted her
                        attention. Soon she began to lose the thread of our conversation, and made
                        inappropriate, tardy replies to my remarks. The glances toward the fireplace
                        increased in number and duration, and her efforts to pay attention to what I
                        was saying became painful failures.
                    After a little time she said: "Is it not cool here? Let us go over
                        to the fireplace where it is warmer."
                    I turned to go with her, and at once saw that it was not the fire in the
                        fireplace which had attracted Dorothy, but quite a different sort of flame.
                        In short, much to my consternation, I discovered that it was nothing less
                        than my handsome new-found friend, Sir John Manners, toward whom Dorothy had
                        been glancing.
                    We walked over to the fireplace, and one of the fires, Sir John, moved away.
                        But the girl turned her face that she might see him in his new position. The
                        movement, I confess, looked bold to the point of brazenness; but if the
                        movement was bold, what shall I say of her glances and the expression of her
                        face? She seemed unable to take her eager eyes from the stranger, or to
                        think of anything but him, and after a few moments she did not try. Soon she
                        stopped talking entirely and did not even hear what I was saying. I, too,
                        became silent, and after a long pause the girl asked:—
                    
                    "Cousin, who is the gentleman with whom you were
                        travelling?"
                    I was piqued by Dorothy's conduct, and answered rather curtly:
                        "He is a stranger. I picked him up at Derby, and we rode here
                        together."
                    A pause followed, awkward in its duration.
                    "Did
                        you—not—learn—his—name?" asked
                        Dorothy, hesitatingly.
                    "Yes "I replied.
                    Then came another pause, broken by the girl, who spoke in a quick, imperious
                        tone touched with irritation:—
                    "Well, what is it?"
                    "It is better that I do not tell you," I answered.
                        "It was quite by accident that we met. Neither of us knew the
                        other. Please do not ask me to tell you his name."
                    "Oh, but you make me all the more eager to learn. Mystery, you know,
                        is intolerable to a woman, except in the unravelling. Come, tell me! Tell
                        me! Not, of course, that I really care a farthing to know—but the
                        mystery! A mystery drives me wild. Tell me, please do, Cousin
                        Malcolm."
                    She certainly was posing for the stranger's benefit, and was doing
                        all in her power, while coaxing me, to display her charms, graces, and
                        pretty little ways. Her attitude and conduct spoke as plainly as the spring
                        bird's song speaks to its mate. Yet Dorothy's manner did
                        not seem bold. Even to me it appeared modest, beautiful, and necessary. She
                        seemed to act under compulsion. She would laugh, for the purpose, no doubt,
                        of showing her dimples and her teeth, and would lean her head to one side
                        pigeon-wise to display her eyes to the best advantage, and then would she
                        shyly glance toward Sir John to see if he was watching her. It was
                        shameless, but it could not be helped by Dorothy nor any one else. After a
                        few 
                        
                            "'HE MUST BE SOME FAMOUS, DASHING
                                HIGHWAYMAN.'"
                        
                         moments of mute pleading by the girl, broken
                        now and then by, "Please, please," I said:—
                    "If you give to me your promise that you will never speak of this
                        matter to any person, I will tell you the gentleman's name. I would
                        not for a great deal have your father know that I have held conversation
                        with him even for a moment, though at the time I did not know whom he
                        was."
                    "Oh, this is delightful! He must be some famous, dashing highwayman.
                        I promise, of course I promise—faithfully." She was
                        glancing constantly toward Manners, and her face was bright with smiles and
                        eager with anticipation.
                    "He is worse than a highwayman, I regret to say. The gentleman
                        toward whom you are so ardently glancing is—Sir John
                        Manners."
                    A shock of pain passed over Dorothy's face, followed by a hard,
                        repellent expression that was almost ugly.
                    "Let us go to Aunt Dorothy," she said, as she turned and
                        walked across the room toward the door.
                    When we had closed the door of the tap-room behind us Dorothy said
                        angrily:—
                    "Tell me, cousin, how you, a Verrnon, came to be in his
                        company?"
                    "I told you that I met him quite by accident at the Royal Arms in
                        Derby-town. We became friends before either knew the other's name.
                        After chance had disclosed our identities, he asked for a truce to our feud
                        until the morrow; and he was so gentle and open in his conduct that I could
                        not and would not refuse his proffered olive branch. In truth, whatever
                        faults may be attributable to Lord Rutland,—and I am sure he
                        deserves all the evil you have spooken of him,—his son, Sir John,
                        is a noble gentleman, else I have been reading the book of human nature all
                        my life in vain. Perhaps he is in no way to 
                        blame for his father's conduct. He may have had no part in
                        it."
                    "Perhaps he has not," said Dorothy, musingly.
                    It was not a pleasant task for me to praise Sir John, but my sense of justice
                        impelled me to do so. I tried to make myself feel injured and chagrined
                        because of Dorothy's manner toward him; for you must remember I had
                        arranged with myself to marry this girl, but I could not work my feelings
                        into a state of indignation against the heir to Rutland. The truth is, my
                        hope of winning Dorothy had evaporated upon the first sight of her, like the
                        volatile essence it really was. I cannot tell you why, but I at once seemed
                        to realize that all the thought and labor which I had devoted to the arduous
                        task of arranging with myself this marriage was labor lost. So I frankly
                        told her my kindly feelings for Sir John, and gave her my high estimate of
                        his character.
                    I continued: "You see, Dorothy, I could not so easily explain to
                        your father my association with Sir John, and I hope you will not speak of
                        it to any one, lest the news should reach Sir George's
                        ears."
                    "I will not speak of it," she returned, sighing
                        faintly.
                    "After all, it is not his fault that his father is such a villain.
                        He doesn't look like his father, does he?"
                    "I cannot say. I never saw Lord Rutland," I replied.
                    "He is the most villanous-looking—" but she broke
                        off the sentence and stood for a moment in revery. We were in the darkened
                        passage, and Dorothy had taken my hand. That little act in another woman of
                        course would have led to a demonstration on my part, but in this girl it
                        seemed so entirely natural and candid that it was a complete bar to undue
                        familiarity. In truth, I had no such tendency, for the childish act spoke of
                        an innocence and faith that were very sweet to me who all my life had lived
                             among men and women who laughed at those
                        simple virtues. The simple conditions of life are all that are worth
                        striving for. They come to us fresh from Nature and from Nature's
                        God. The complex are but concoctions of man after recipes in the
                        devil's alchemy. So much gold, so much ambition, so much lust. Mix
                        well. Product: so much vexation.
                    "He must resemble his mother," said Dorothy, after a long
                        pause. "Poor fellow! His mother is dead. He is like me in that
                        respect. I wonder if his father's villanies trouble
                        him?"
                    "I think they must trouble him. He seems to be sad," said
                        I, intending to be ironical.
                    My reply was taken seriously.
                    "I am sorry for him," she said, "it is not right
                        to hate even our enemies. The Book tells us that."
                    "Yet you hate Lord Rutland," said I, amused and
                        provoked.
                    Unexpected and dangerous symptoms were rapidly developing in the perverse
                        girl, and trouble was brewing "in Derbyshire."
                    The adjective perverse, by the way, usually is superfluous when used to
                        modify the noun girl.
                    "Yet you hate Lord Rutland," I repeated.
                    "Why, y-e-s," she responded. "I cannot help that,
                        but you know it would be very wrong to—to hate all his family. To
                        hate him is bad enough."
                    I soon began to fear that I had praised Sir John overmuch.
                    "I think Sir John is all there is of Lord Rutland's
                        family," I said, alarmed yet amused at Dorothy's search
                        for an excuse not to hate my new-found friend.
                    "Well," she continued after a pause, throwing her head to
                        one side, "I am sorry there are no more of that family not to
                        hate."
                    
                    "Dorothy! Dorothy!" I exclaimed. "What has come
                        over you? You surprise me."
                    "Yes," she answered, with a little sigh, "I
                        certainly have surprised myself by—by my willingness to forgive
                        those who have injured my house. I did not know there was so
                        much—so much good in me."
                    "Mistress Pharisee," thought I, "you are a
                        hypocrite."
                    Again intending to be ironical, I said, "Shall I fetch him from the
                        tap-room and present him to you?"
                    Once more my irony was lost upon the girl. Evidently that sort of humor was
                        not my strong point.
                    "No, no," she responded indignantly, "I would not
                        speak to him for—" Again she broke her sentence abruptly,
                        and after a little pause, short in itself but amply long for a girl like
                        Dorothy to change her mind two score times, she continued: "It
                        would not be for the best. What think you, Cousin Malcolm?"
                    "Surely the girl has gone mad," thought I. Her voice was
                        soft and conciliating as if to say, "I trust entirely to your
                        mature, superior judgment."
                    My judgment coincided emphatically with her words, and I said: "I
                        spoke only in jest. It certainly would not be right. It would be all wrong
                        if you were to meet him."
                    "That is true," the girl responded with firmness,
                        "but—but no real harm could come of it," she
                        continued, laughing nervously. "He could not strike me nor bite me.
                        Of course it would be unpleasant for me to meet him, and as there is no
                        need—I am curious to know what one of his race is like.
                        It's the only reason that would induce me to consent. Of course you
                        know there could be no other reason for me to wish—that is, you
                        know—to be willing to meet him. Of course you know."
                    "Certainly," I replied, still clinging to my unsuccessful
                        irony. "I will tell you all I know about him, so that you  may understand what he is like. As for his
                        personal appearance, you saw him, did you not?"
                    I thought surely that piece of irony would not fail, but it did, and I have
                        seldom since attempted to use that form of humor.
                    "Yes—oh, yes, I saw him for a moment."
                    "But I will not present him to you, Dorothy, however much you may
                        wish to meet him," I said positively.
                    "It is almost an insult, Cousin Malcolm, for you to say that I wish
                        to meet him," she answered in well-feigned indignation.
                    The French blood in my veins moved me to shrug my shoulders. I could do
                        nothing else. With all my knowledge of womankind this girl had sent me to
                        sea.
                    But what shall we say of Dorothy's conduct? I fancy I can hear you
                        mutter, "This Dorothy Vernon must have been a bold, immodest,
                        brazen girl." Nothing of the sort. Dare you of the cold
                        blood—if perchance there be any with that curse in their veins who
                        read these lines—dare you, I say, lift your voice against the
                        blessed heat in others which is but a greater, stronger, warmer spark of
                        God's own soul than you possess or than you can comprehend?
                        "Evil often comes of it," I hear you say. That I freely
                        admit; and evil comes from eating too much bread, and from hearing too much
                        preaching. But the universe, from the humblest blade of grass to the
                        infinite essence of God, exists because of that warmth which the mawkish
                        world contemns. Is the iron immodest when it creeps to the lodestone and
                        clings to its side? Is the hen bird brazen when she flutters to her mate
                        responsive to his compelling woo-song? Is the seed immodest when it sinks
                        into the ground and swells with budding life? Is the cloud bold when it
                        softens into rain and falls to earth because it has no other choice? or is
                        it brazen when it nestles for a time on the bosom of heaven's  arched dome and sinking into the fathomless
                        depths of a blue black infinity ceases to be itself? Is the human soul
                        immodest when, drawn by a force it cannot resist, it seeks a stronger soul
                        which absorbs its ego as the blue sky absorbs the floating cloud, as the
                        warm earth swells the seed, as the magnet draws the iron? All these are of
                        one quality. The iron, the seed, the cloud, and the soul of man are what they are, do what they do, love as
                        they love, live as they live, and die as they die because they
                        must—because they have no other choice. We think we are free
                        because at times we act as we please, forgetting that God gives us the
                        "please," and that every act of our being is but the
                        result of a dictated motive. Dorothy was not immodest. This was her case.
                        She was the iron, the seed, the cloud, and the rain. You, too, are the iron,
                        the seed, the cloud, and the rain. It is only human vanity which prompts you
                        to believe that you are yourself and that you are free. Do you find any
                        freedom in this world save that which you fondly believe to exist within
                        yourself? Self! There is but one self, God. I have been told that the people
                        of the East call Him Brahma. The word, it is said, means
                        "Breath," "Inspiration,"
                        "All." I have felt that the beautiful pagan thought has
                        truth in it; but my conscience and my priest tell me rather to cling to
                        truths I have than to fly to others that I know not of. As a result, I shall
                        probably die orthodox and mistaken.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    THE PITCHER GOES TO THE WELL
                    
                    DOROTHY and I went to the inn parlors, where I received a cordial welcome
                        from my cousin, Lady Crawford. After our greeting, Dorothy came toward me
                        leading the fair, pale girl whom I had seen in the courtyard.
                    "Madge, this is my cousin, Malcolm Vernon," said Dorothy.
                        "He was a dear friend of my childhood and is much beloved by my
                        father. Lady Magdalene Stanley, cousin," and she placed the
                        girl's soft white hand in mine. There was a peculiar hesitancy in
                        the girl's manner which puzzled me. She did not look at me when
                        Dorothy placed her hand in mine, but kept her eyes cast down, the long,
                        black lashes resting upon the fair curves of her cheek like a shadow on the
                        snow. She murmured a salutation, and when I made a remark that called for a
                        response, she lifted her eyes but seemed not to look at me. Unconsciously I
                        turned my face toward Dorothy, who closed her eyes and formed with her lips
                        the word "blind."
                    I retained the girl's hand, and she did not withdraw it. When I
                        caught Dorothy's unspoken word I led Lady Madge to a chair and
                        asked if I might sit beside her.
                    "Certainly," she answered smilingly; "you know I
                        am blind, but I can hear and speak, and I enjoy having persons I like sit
                        near me that I may touch them now and then while we talk. If I could only
                        see!" she exclaimed.  Still, there was
                        no tone of complaint in her voice and very little even of regret. The
                        girl's eyes were of a deep blue and were entirely without scar or
                        other evidence of blindness, except that they did not seem to see. I
                        afterward learned that her affliction had come upon her as the result of
                        illness when she was a child. She was niece to the Earl of Derby, and
                        Dorothy's mother had been her aunt. She owned a small estate and
                        had lived at Haddon Hall five or six years because of the love that existed
                        between her and Dorothy. A strong man instinctively longs to cherish that
                        which needs his strength, and perhaps it was the girl's
                        helplessness that first appealed to me. Perhaps it was her rare, peculiar
                        beauty, speaking eloquently of virtue such as I had never known, that
                        touched me. I cannot say what the impelling cause was, but this I know: my
                        heart went out in pity to her, and all that was good within
                        me—good, which I had never before suspected—stirred in my
                        soul, and my past life seemed black and barren beyond endurance. Even
                        Dorothy's marvellous beauty lacked the subtle quality which this
                        simple blind girl possessed. The first step in regeneration is to see
                        one's faults; the second is to regret them; the third is to quit
                        them. The first and second steps constitute repentance; the second and third
                        regeneration. One hour within the radius of Madge Stanley's
                        influence brought me to repentance. But repentance is an everyday virtue.
                        Should I ever achieve regeneration? That is one of the questions this
                        history will answer. To me, Madge Stanley's passive force was the
                        strongest influece for good that had ever impinged on my life. With respect
                        to her, morally, I was the iron, the seed, the cloud, and the rain, for she,
                        acting unconsciously, moved me with neither knowledge nor volition on my
                        part.
                    Soon after my arrival at the ladies' parlor dinner was served, and
                        after dinner a Persian merchant was ushered 
                        in, closely followed by his servants bearing bales of rare Eastern fabrics.
                        A visit and a dinner at the inn were little events that made a break in the
                        monotony of life at the Hall, and the ladies preferred to visit the
                        merchant, who was stopping at The Peacock for a time, rather than to have
                        him take his wares to Haddon.
                    While Lady Crawford and Dorothy were revelling in Persian silks, satins, and
                        gold cloths, I sat by Lady Madge and was more than content that we were left
                        to ourselves. My mind, however, was as far from thoughts of gallantry as if
                        she had been a black-veiled nun. I believe I have not told you that I was of
                        the Holy Catholic Faith. My religion, I may say, has always been more
                        nominal and political than spiritual, although there ran through it a strong
                        vein of inherited tendencies and superstitions which were highly colored by
                        contempt for heresy and heretics. I was Catholic by habit. But if I analyzed
                        my supposed religious belief, I found that I had none save a hatred for
                        heresy. Heretics, as a rule, were low-born persons, vulgarly moral, and as I
                        had always thought, despisedly hypocritical. Madge Stanley, however, was a
                        Protestant, and that fact shook the structure of my old mistakes to its
                        foundation, and left me religionless.
                    After the Persian merchant had packed his bales and departed, Dorothy and
                        Lady Crawford joined Madge and me near the fireplace. Soon Dorothy went over
                        to the window and stood there gazing into the courtyard.
                    After a few minutes Lady Crawford said, "Dorothy, had we not better
                        order Dawson to bring out the horses and coach?" Will Dawson was
                        Sir George's forester.
                    Lady Crawford repeated her question, but Dorothy was too intently watching
                        the scene in the courtyard to hear I went over to her, and looking out at
                        the window discovered the object of Dorothy's rapt attention. There
                        is no need for me to tell you who it was. Irony, as you know,  and as I had learned, was harmless against
                        this thick-skinned nymph. Of course I had no authority to scold her, so I
                        laughed. The object of Dorothy's attention was about to mount his
                        horse. He was drawing on his gauntleted gloves and held between his teeth a
                        cigarro. He certainly presented a handsome figure for the eyes of an ardent
                        girl to rest upon while he stood beneath the window, clothed in a
                        fashionable Paris-made suit of brown, doublet, trunks, and hose. His
                        high-topped boots were polished till they shone, and his broad-rimmed hat,
                        of soft beaver, was surmounted by a flowing plume. Even I, who had no
                        especial taste nor love for masculine beauty, felt my sense of the beautiful
                        strongly moved by the attractive picture my new-found friend presented. His
                        dress, manner, and bearing, polished by the friction of life at a luxurious
                        court, must have appeared god-like to Dorothy. She had never travelled
                        farther from home than Buxton and Derby-town, and had met only the
                        half-rustic men belonging to the surrounding gentry and nobility of
                        Derbyshire, Nottingham, and Stafford. She had met but few even of them, and
                        their lives had been spent chiefly in drinking, hunting, and
                        gambling—accomplishments that do not fine down the texture of a
                        man's nature or fit him for a lady's bower. Sir John
                        Manners was a revelation to Dorothy; and she, poor girl, was bewildered and
                        bewitched by him.
                    When John had mounted and was moving away, he looked up to the window where
                        Dorothy stood, and a light came to her eyes and a smile to her face which no
                        man who knows the sum of two and two can ever mistake if he but once sees
                        it.
                    When I saw the light in Dorothy's eyes, I knew that all the hatred
                        that was ever born from all the feuds that had ever lived since the
                        quarrelling race of man began its feuds in Eden could not make Dorothy
                        Vernon hate the son of her father's enemy.
                    
                    "I was—was—watching him draw smoke through
                        the—the little stick which he holds in his mouth, and—and
                        blow it out again" said Dorothy, in explanation of her attitude.
                        She blushed painfully and continued, "I hope you do not
                        think—"
                    "I do not think," I answered. "I would not think
                        of thinking."
                    "Of course not," she responded, with a forced smile, as she
                        watched Sir John pass out of sight under the arch of the innyard gate. I did
                        not think. I knew. And the sequel, so full of trouble, soon proved that I
                        was right.
                    After John had passed through the gate, Dorothy was willing to go home; and
                        when Will Dawson brought the great coach to the inn door, I mounted my horse
                        and rode beside the ladies to Haddon Hall, two miles north from Rowsley.
                    I shall not stop to tell you of the warm welcome given me by Sir George
                        Vernon, nor of his delight when I briefly told him my misfortunes in
                        Scotland—misfortunes that had brought me to Haddon Hall. Nor shall
                        I describe the great boar's head supper given in my honor, at which
                        there were twenty men who could have put me under the table. I thought I
                        knew something of the art of drinking, but at that supper I soon found I was
                        a mere tippler compared with these country guzzlers. At that feast I learned
                        also that Dorothy, when she had hinted concerning Sir George's
                        excessive drinking, had told the truth. He, being the host, drank with all
                        his guests. Near midnight he grew distressingly drunk, talkative, and
                        violent, and when toward morning he was carried from the room by his
                        servants, the company broke up. Those who could do so reeled home; those who
                        could not walk at all were put to bed by the retainers at Haddon Hall. I had
                        chosen my bedroom high up in Eagle Tower. At table I had tried to remain
                        sober. That, however, was an impossible task, for at the  upper end of the hall there was a wrist-ring
                        placed in the wainscoting at a height of ten or twelve inches above the head
                        of an ordinary man, and if one refused to drink as much as the other guests
                        thought he should, his wrist was fastened above his head in the ring, and
                        the liquor which he should have poured down his throat was poured down his
                        sleeve. Therefore to avoid this species of rustic sport I drank much more
                        than was good for me. When the feast closed I thought I was sober enough to
                        go to my room unassisted; so I took a candle, and with a great show of
                        self-confidence climbed the spiral stone stairway to the door of my room.
                        The threshold of my door was two or three feet above the steps of the
                        stairway, and after I had contemplated the distance for a few minutes, I
                        concluded that it would not be safe for me to attempt to climb into my
                        sleeping apartments without help. Accordingly I sat down upon the step on
                        which I had been standing, placed my candle beside me, called loudly for a
                        servant, received no response, and fell asleep only to be awakened by one of
                        Sir George's retainers coming downstairs next morning.
                    After that supper, in rapid succession, followed hunting and drinking,
                        feasting and dancing in my honor. At the dances the pipers furnished the
                        music, or, I should rather say, the noise. Their miserable wailings reminded
                        me of Scotland. After all, thought I, is the insidious, polished vice of
                        France worse than the hoggish, uncouth practices of Scotland and of English
                        country life? I could not endure the latter, so I asked Sir George, on the
                        pretext of ill health, to allow me to refuse invitations to other houses,
                        and I insisted that he should give no more entertainments at Haddon Hall on
                        my account. Sir George eagerly acquiesced in all my wishes. In truth, I was
                        treated like an honored guest and a member of the family, and I
                        congratulated myself that my life had fallen in such pleasant lines. Dorothy
                        and Madge became my constant conpanions,  for
                        Sir George's time was occupied chiefly with his estates and with
                        his duties as magistrate. A feeling of rest and contentment came over me,
                        and my past life drifted back of me like an ever receding cloud.
                    Thus passed the months of October and November.
                    In the meantime events in Scotland and in England proved my wisdom in seeking
                        a home at Haddon Hall, and showed me how great was my good fortune in
                        finding it.
                    Queen Mary was a prisoner at Lochleven Castle, and her brother Murray had
                        beheaded many of her friends. Elizabeth, hating Mary as only a plain,
                        envious woman can hate one who is transcendently beautiful, had, upon
                        different pretexts, seized many of Mary's friends who had fled to
                        England for sanctuary, and some of them had suffered imprisonment or
                        death.
                    Elizabeth, in many instances, had good cause for her attitude toward
                        Mary's friends, since plots were hatching thick and fast to
                        liberate Mary from Lochleven; and many such plots, undoubtedly, had for
                        their chief end the deposition of Elizabeth, and the enthronement of Mary as
                        Queen of England.
                    As a strict matter of law, Mary was rightful heir to the English throne, and
                        Elizabeth was an usurper. Parliament, at Henry's request, had
                        declared that Elizabeth, his issue by Anne Boleyn, was illegitimate, and
                        that being true, Mary was next in line of descent. The Catholics of England
                        took that stand, and Mary's beauty and powers of fascination had
                        won for her friends even in the personal household of the Virgin Queen.
                        Small cause for wonder was it that Elizabeth, knowing all these facts,
                        looked with suspicion and fear upon Mary's refugee friends.
                    The English queen well knew that Sir George Vernon was her friend, therefore
                        his house and his friendship were  my
                        sanctuary, without which my days certainly would have been numbered in the
                        land of Elizabeth, and their number would have been small. I was dependent
                        on Sir George not only for a roof to shelter me, but for my very life. I
                        speak of these things that you may know some of the many imperative reasons
                        why I desired to please and conciliate my cousin. In addition to those
                        reasons, I soon grew to love Sir George, not only because of his kindness to
                        me, but because he was a lovable man. He was generous, just, and frank, and
                        although at times he was violent almost to the point of temporary madness,
                        his heart was usually gentle, and was as easily touched by kindness as it
                        was quickly moved to cruelty by injury, fancied or actual. I have never
                        known a more cruel, tender man than he. You will see him in each of his
                        natures before you have finished this history. But you must judge him only
                        after you have considered his times, which were forty years ago, his
                        surroundings, and his blood.
                    During those two months remarkable changes occurred within the walls of
                        Haddon, chief of which were in myself, and, alas! in Dorothy.
                    My pilgrimage to Haddon, to you already know, had been made for the purpose
                        of marrying my fair cousin; for I did not, at the time I left Scotland,
                        suppose I should need Sir George's protection against Elizabeth.
                        When I met Dorothy at Rowsley, my desire to marry her became personal, in
                        addition to the mercenary motives with which I had originally started. But I
                        quickly recognized the fact that the girl was beyond my reach. I knew I
                        could not win her love, even though I had a thousand years to try for it;
                        and I would not accept her hand in marriage solely at her father's
                        command. I also soon learned that Dorothy was the child of her father,
                        gentle, loving, and tender beyond the naming, but also wilful, violent, and
                        fierce to the extent that no command could influence her.
                    
                    First I shall speak of the change within myself. I will soon be done with so
                        much "I" and "me," and you shall have
                        Dorothy to your heart's content, or trouble, I know not which.
                    Soon after my arrival at Haddon Hall the sun ushered in one of those
                        wonderful days known only to the English autumn, when the hush of
                        Nature's drowsiness, just before her long winter's sleep.
                        imparts its soft restfulness to man, as if it were a lotus feast. Dorothy
                        was ostentatiously busy with her household matters, and was consulting with
                        butler, cook, and steward. Sir George had ridden out to superintend his men
                        at work, and I, wandering aimlessly about the hall, came upon Madge Stanley
                        sitting in the chaplain's room with folded hands.
                    "Lady Madge, will you go with me for a walk this beautiful
                        morning?" I asked.
                    "Gladly would I go, Sir Malcolm," she responded, a mile
                        brightening her face and quickly fading away, "but I—I
                        cannot walk in unfamiliar places. I should fall. You would have to lead me
                        by the hand, and that, I fear, would mar the pleasure of your
                        walk."
                    "Indeed, it would not, Lady Madge. I should enjoy my walk all the
                        more."
                    "If you really wish me to go, I shall be delighted" she
                        responded, as the brightness came again to her face. "I sometimes
                        grow weary, and, I confess, a little sad sitting alone when Dorothy cannot
                        be with me. Aunt Dorothy, now that she has her magnifying
                        glasses,—spectacles, I think they are called,—devotes all
                        her time to reading, and dislikes to be interrupted."
                    "I wish it very much" I said, surprised by the real
                        eagerness of my desire, and unconsciously endeavoring to keep out of the
                        tones of my voice a part of that eagerness.
                    "I shall take you at your word," she said. "I will
                        go to my room to get my hat and cloak."
                    
                    She rose and began to grope her way toward the door, holding out her white,
                        expressive hands in front of her. It was pitiful and beautiful to see her,
                        and my emotions welled up in my throat till I could hardly speak.
                    "Permit me to give you my hand," I said huskily. How I
                        ionged to carry her! Every man with the right sort of a heart in his breast
                        has a touch of the mother instinct in him; but, alas! only a touch. Ah,
                        wondrous and glorious womanhood! If you had naught but the mother instinct
                        to lift you above your masters by the hand of man-made laws, those masters
                        were still unworthy to tie the strings of your shoes.
                    "Thank you," said the girl, as she clasped my hand, and
                        moved with confidence by my side." This is so much better than the
                        dreadful fear of falling. Even through these rooms where I have lived for
                        many years I feel safe only in a few places,—on the stairs, and in
                        my rooms, which are also Dorothy's. When Dorothy changes the
                        position of a piece of furniture in the Hall, she leads me to it several
                        times that I may learn just where it is. A long time ago she changed the
                        position of a chair and did not tell me. I fell against it and was hurt.
                        Dorothy wept bitterly over the mishap, and she has never since failed to
                        tell me of such changes. I cannot make you know how kind and tender Dorothy
                        is to me. I feel that I should die without her, and I know she would grieve
                        terribly were we to part."
                    I could not answer. What a very woman you will think I was! I, who could
                        laugh while I ran my sword through a man's heart, could hardly
                        restrain my tears for pity of this beautiful blind girl.
                    "Thank you; that will do," she said, when we came to the
                        foot of the great staircase. "I can now go to my rooms
                        alone."
                    When she reached the top she hesitated and groped for  a moment; then she turned and called laughingly to me while I
                        stood at the bottom of the steps, "I know the way perfectly well,
                        but to go alone in any place is not like being led."
                    "There are many ways in which one may be led, Lady Madge,"
                        I answered aloud. Then I said to myself, "That girl will lead you
                        to Heaven, Malcolm, if you will permit her to do so."
                    But thirty-five years of evil life are hard to neutralize. There is but one
                        subtle elixir that can do it—love; and I had not thought of that
                        magic remedy with respect to Madge.
                    I hurriedly fetched my hat and returned to the foot of the staircase. Within
                        a minute or two Madge came down stairs holding up the skirt of her gown with
                        one hand, while she grasped the banister with the other. As I watched her
                        descending I was enraptured with her beauty. Even the marvellous vital
                        beauty of Dorothy could not compare with this girl's fair, pale
                        loveliness. It seemed to be almost a profanation for me to admire the sweet
                        oval of her face. Upon her alabaster skin, the black eyebrows, the long
                        lashes, the faint blue veins and the curving red lips stood in exquisite
                        relief. While she was descending the stairs, I caught a gleam of her round,
                        snowy forearm and wrist; and when my eyes sought the perfect curves of her
                        form disclosed by the clinging silk gown she wore, I felt that I had sinned
                        in looking upon her, and I was almost glad she could not see the shame which
                        was in my face.
                    "Cousin Malcolm, are you waiting?"she asked from midway in
                        the staircase.
                    "Yes, I am at the foot of the steps" I answered.
                    "I called you 'Cousin Malcolm,' "she
                        said, holding out her hand when she came near me. "Pardon me; it
                        was a slip of the tongue. I hear 'Cousin Malcolm' so I
                        frequently from Dorothy that the name is familiar to me."
                    
                    "I shall be proud if you will call me 'Cousin
                        Malcolm' always. I like the name better than any that you can
                        use."
                    "If you wish it," she said, in sweet, simple candor,
                        "I will call you 'Cousin Malcolm,'and you may
                        call me 'Cousin Madge' or 'Madge,' just
                        as you please."
                    "'Cousin Madge' it shall be; that is a
                        compact," I answered, as I opened the door and we walked out into
                        the fresh air of the bright October morning.
                    "That will stand for our first compact; we are progressing
                        famously," she said, with a low laugh of delight.
                    Ah, to think that the blind can laugh. God is good.
                    We walked out past the stables and the cottage, and crossed the river on the
                        great stone bridge. Then we took our way down the babbling Wye, keeping
                        close to its banks, while the dancing waters and even the gleaming pebbles
                        seemed to dimple and smile as they softly sang their song of welcome to the
                        fair kindred spirit who had come to visit them. If we wandered from the
                        banks for but a moment, the waters seemed to struggle and turn in their
                        course until they were again by her side, and then would they gently flow
                        and murmur their contentment as they travelled forward to the sea, full of
                        the memory of her sweet presence. And during all that time I led her by the
                        hand. I tell you, friends, 'tis sweet to write of it.
                    When we returned we crossed the Wye by the stone footbridge and entered the
                        garden below the terrace at the corner postern. We remained for an hour
                        resting upon the terrace balustrade, and before we went indoors Madge again
                        spoke of Dorothy.
                    "I cannot tell you how much I have enjoyed this walk, nor how
                        thankful I am to you for taking me," she said.
                    I did not interrupt her by replying, for I loved to hear her talk.
                    Dorothy sometimes takes me with her for a short 
                        walk, but I seldom have that pleasure. Walking is too slow for Dorothy. She
                        is so strong and full of life. She delights to ride her mare Dolcy. Have you
                        seen Dolcy?"
                    "No," I responded.
                    "You must see her at once. She is the most beautiful animal in the
                        world. Though small of limb, she is swift as the wind, and as easy as a
                        cradle in her gaits. She is mettlesome and fiery, but full of affection. She
                        often kisses Dorothy. Mare and rider are finely mated. Dorothy is the most
                        perfect woman, and Dolcy is the most perfect mare. 'The two
                        D's,' we call them. But Dorothy says we must be careful
                        not to put a—a dash between them," she said with a laugh
                        and a blush.
                    Then I led Madge into the hall, and she was blithe and happy as if the
                        blessed light of day were in her eyes. It was in her soul, and that, after
                        all, is where it brings the greatest good.
                    After that morning, Madge and I frequently walked out when the days were
                        pleasant. The autumn was mild, well into winter time, and by the end of
                        November the transparent cheeks of the blind girl held an exquisite tinge of
                        color, and her form had a new grace from the strength she had acquired in
                        exercise. We had grown to be dear friends, and the touch of her hand was a
                        pleasure for which I waited eagerly from day to day. Again I say thoughts of
                        love for her had never entered my mind. Perhaps their absence was because of
                        my feeling that they could not possibly exist in her heart for me.
                    One evening in November, after the servants had all gone to bed, Sir George
                        and I went to the kitchen to drink a hot punch before retiring for the
                        night. I drank a mod-erate bowl and sat in a large chair before the fire,
                        smoking a pipe of tobacco, while Sir George drank brandy toddy at the
                        massive oak table in the middle of the room
                    Sir George was rapidly growing drunk. He said: 
                        "Dawson tells me that the queen's officers arrested
                        another of Mary Stuart's damned French friends at Derbytown
                        yesterday,—Count somebody; I can't pronounce their
                        miserable names."
                    "Can you not remember his name?" I asked. "He may
                        be a friend of mine." My remark was intended to remind Sir George
                        that his language was offensive to me.
                    "That is true, Malcolm," responded Sir George. "I
                        beg your pardon. I meant to speak ill only of Mary's meddlesome
                        friends, who are doing more injury than good to their queen's cause
                        by their plotting."
                    I replied: "No one can regret these plots more than I do. They
                        certainly will work great injury to the cause they are intended to help. But
                        I fear many innocent men are made to suffer for the few guilty ones. Without
                        your protection, for which I cannot sufficiently thank you, my life here
                        would probably be of short duration. After my misfortunes in Scotland, I
                        know not what I should have done had it not been for your generous welcome.
                        I lost all in Scotland, and it would now be impossible for me to go to
                        France. An attempt on my part to escape would result in my arrest. Fortune
                        certainly has turned her capricious back upon me, with the one exception
                        that she has left me your friendship."
                    "Malcolm, my boy," said Sir George, drawing his chair
                        toward me, "that which you consider your loss is my great gain. I
                        am growing old, and if you, who have seen so much of the gay world, will be
                        content to live with us and share our dulness and our cares, I shall be the
                        happiest man in England."
                    "I thank you more than I can tell," I said, careful not to
                        commit myself to any course.
                    "Barring my quarrel with the cursed race of Manners,"
                        continued Sir George, "I have little to trouble me; and if you will
                        remain with us, I thank God I may leave the feud  in good hands. Would that I were young again only for a day that I might
                        call that scoundrel Rutland and his imp of a son to acount in the only
                        manner whereby an honest man may have justice of a thief. There are but two
                        of them, Malcolm,—father and son,—and if they were dead,
                        the damned race would be extinct."
                    I believe that Sir George Vernon when sober could not have spoken in that
                        fashion even of his enemies.
                    I found difficulty in replying to my cousin's remarks, so I said
                        evasively:—
                    "I certainly am the most fortunate of men to find so warm a welcome
                        from you, and so good a home as that which I have at Haddon Hall. When I met
                        Dorothy at the inn, I knew at once by her kindness that my friends of old
                        were still true to me. I was almost stunned by Dorothy's
                        beauty.
                    My mention of Dorothy was unintentional and unfortunate. I had shied from the
                        subject upon several previous occasions, but Sir George was continually
                        trying to lead up to it. This time my lack of forethought saved him the
                        trouble.
                    "Do you really think that Doll is very beautiful—so very
                        beautiful? Do you really think so, Malcolm?"said the old gentleman,
                        rubbing his hands in pride and pleasure.
                    "Surprisingly beautiful," I answered, seeking hurriedly
                        through my mind for an excuse to turn the converstion. I had within two
                        months learned one vital fact: beautiful as Dorothy was, I did not want her
                        for my wife, and I could not have had her even were I dying for love. The
                        more I learned of Dorothy and myself during the autumn through which I had
                        just passed—and I had learned more of myself than I had been able
                        to discover in the thirty-five previous years of my life—the more
                        clearly I saw the utter unfitness of marrige between us.
                    "In all your travels," asked Sir George, leaning his  elbows upon his knees and looking at his feet
                        between his hands, "in all your travels and court life have you
                        ever seen a woman who was so beautiful as my girl Doll?"
                    His pride in Dorothy at times had a tinge of egotism and selfishness. It
                        seemed to be almost the pride of possession and ownership. "My
                        girl!" The expression and the tone in which the words were spoken
                        sounded as if he had said: "My fine horse," "My
                        beautiful Hall," or "My grand estates." Dorothy
                        was his property. Still, he loved the girl passionately. She was dearer to
                        him than all his horses, cattle, halls, and estates put together, and he
                        loved even them to excess. He loved all that he possessed; whatever was his
                        was the best of the sort. Such a love is apt to grow up in the breasts of
                        men who have descended from a long line of proprietary ancestors, and with
                        all its materialism it has in it possibilities of great good. The sturdy,
                        unflinching patriotism of the English people springs from this source. The
                        thought, "That which I possess is the best," has beauty
                        and use in it, though it leads men to treat other men, and, alas! women, as
                        mere chattels. All this was passing through my mind, and I forgot to answer
                        Sir George's question.
                    "Have you ever seen a woman more beautiful than Doll?" he
                        again asked.
                    "I certainly have never seen one whose beauty may even be compared
                        with Dorothy's," I answered.
                    "And she is young, too," continued Sir George;
                        "she is not yet nineteen."
                    "That is very young," I answered, not knowing what else to
                        say.
                    "And she will be rich some day. Very rich. I am called
                        'King of the Peak,' you know, and there are not three
                        estates in Derbyshire which, if combined, would equal mine."
                    "That is true, cousin," I answered, "and I rejoice
                        in your good fortune."
                    
                    "Dorothy will have it all one of these days—all,
                        all," continued my cousin, still looking at his feet.
                    After a long pause, during which Sir George took several libations from his
                        bowl of toddy, he cleared his throat and said, "So Dorothy is the
                        most beautiful girl and the richest heiress you know?"
                    "Indeed she is," I responded, knowing full well what he was
                        leading up to. Realizing that in spite of me he would now speak his mind, I
                        made no attempt to turn the current of the conversation.
                    After another long pause, and after several more draughts from the bowl, my
                        old friend and would-be bene-factor said: "You may remember a
                        little conversation between us when you were last at Haddon six or seven
                        years ago, about—about Dorothy? You remember?"
                    I, of course, dared not pretend that I had forgotten.
                    "Yes, I remember," I responded.
                    "What do you think of the proposition by this time?" asked
                        Sir George. "Dorothy and all she will inherit shall be
                        yours—"
                    "Stop, stop, Sir George! "I exclaimed. "You do not
                        know what you say. No one but a prince or a great peer of the realm is
                        worthy of aspiring to Dorothy's hand. When she is ready to marry
                        you should take her to London court, where she can make her choice from
                        among the nobles of our land. There is not a marriageable duke or earl in
                        England who would not eagerly seek the girl for a wife. My dear cousin, your
                        generosity overwhelms me, but it must not be thought of. I am utterly
                        unworthy of her in person, age, and position. No! no!"
                    But listen to me, Malcolm," responded Sir George. "Your
                        modesty, which, in truth, I did not know you possessed, is pleasing to me;
                        but I have reasons of my own for wishing that you should marry Dorothy. I
                        want my estates to remain in the Vernon name, and one day  you or your children will make my house and my
                        name noble. You and Dorothy shall go to court, and between
                        you—damme! if you can't win dukedom, I am no prophet. You
                        would not object to change your faith, would you?"
                    "Oh, no," I responded, "of course I should not
                        object to that."
                    "Of course not. I knew you were no fool," said Sir George.
                        "Age! why, you are only thirty-five years old—little more
                        than a matured boy. I prefer you to any man in England for
                        Dorothy's husband."
                    "You overwhelm me with your kindness," I returned, feeling
                        that I was being stranded on a very dangerous shore, amidst wealth and
                        beauty.
                    "Tut, tut, there's no kindness in it," returned my
                        cousin. "I do not offer you Dorothy s hand from an unselfish
                        motive. I have told you one motive, but there is another, and a little
                        condition besides, Malcolm." The brandy Sir George had been
                        drinking had sent the devil to his brain.
                    "What is the condition?" I asked, overjoyed to hear that
                        there was one.
                    The old man leaned toward me and a fierce blackness overclouded his face.
                        "I am told, Malcolm, that you have few equals in swordsmanship, and
                        that the duello is not new to you. Is it true?"
                    "I believe I may say it is true," I answered. "I
                        have fought successfully with some of the most noted duellists
                        of—
                    "Enough, enough! Now, this is the condition, Malcolm,—a
                        welcome one to you, I am sure; a welcome one to any brave man." His
                        eyes gleamed with fire and hatred. "Quarrel with Rutland and his
                        son and kill both of them."
                    I felt like recoiling from the old fiend. I had often  quarrelled and fought, but, thank God, never in cold blood and
                        with deliberate intent to do murder.
                    "Then Dorothy and all I possess shall be yours," said Sir
                        George. "The old one will be an easy victim. The young one, they
                        say, prides himself on his prowess. I do not know with what cause, I have
                        never seen him fight. In fact, I have never seen the fellow at all. He has
                        lived at London court since he was a child, and has seldom, if ever, visited
                        this part of the country. He was a page both to Edward VI. and to Queen
                        Mary. Why Elizabeth keeps the damned traitor at court to plot against her is
                        more than I can understand. Do the conditions suit you, Malcolm?"
                        asked Sir George, piercing me with his eyes.
                    I did not respond, and he continued: "All I ask is your promise to
                        kill Rutland and his son at the first opportunity. I care not how. The
                        marriage may come off at once. It can't take place too soon to
                        please me."
                    I could not answer for a time. The power to speak and to think had left me.
                        To accept Sir George's offer was out of the question. To refuse it
                        would be to give offence beyond reparation to my only friend, and you know
                        what that would have meant to me. My refuge was Dorothy. I knew, however
                        willing I might be or might appear to be, Dorothy would save me the trouble
                        and danger of refusing her hand. So I said:—
                    "We have not consulted Dorothy. Perhaps her
                        inclipations—
                    "Doll's inclinations be damned. I have always been kind and
                        indulgent to her, and she is a dutiful, obedient daughter. My wish and
                        command in this affair will furish inclinations enough for
                        Doll."
                    "But, Sir George," I remonstrated, "I would not
                        accept the hand of Dorothy nor of any woman unless she desired it. I could
                        not. I could not."
                    
                    "If Doll consents, I am to understand that you accept?"
                        asked Sir George.
                    I saw no way out of the dilemma, and to gain time I said, "Few men
                        in their right mind would refuse so flattering an offer unless there were a
                        most potent reason, and I—I—"
                    "Good! good! I shall go to bed happy to-night for the first time in
                        years. The Rutlands will soon be out of my path."
                    There is a self-acting retribution in our evil passions which never fails to
                        operate. One who hates must suffer, and Sir George for years had paid the
                        penalty night and day, unconscious that his pain was of his own making.
                    Before we parted I said, "This is a delicate matter, with reference
                        to Dorothy, and I insist that you give me time to win, if possible, her
                        kindly regard before you express to her your wish."
                    "Nonsense, nonsense, Malcolm! I'll tell the girl about it
                        in the moring, and save you the trouble. The women will want to make some
                        new gowns and—"
                    "But," I interrupted emphatically, "I will not
                        have it so. It is every man's sweet privilege to woo the woman of
                        his choice in his own way. It is not a trouble to me; it is a pleasure, and
                        it is every woman's right to be wooed by the man who seeks her. I
                        again insist that I only shall speak to Dorothy on this subject. At least, I
                        demand that I be allowed to speak first."
                    "That's all damned nonsense," responded Sir
                        George; "but if you will have it so, well and good. Take your own
                        course. I suppose it's the fashion at court. The good old country
                        way suits me. A girl's father tells her whom she is to marry, and,
                        by gad, she does it without a word and is glad to get a man. English girls
                        obey their parents. They know what to expect if they
                        don't—the lash, by God, and the dungeon under the keep.
                        Your  roundabout method is all right for
                        tenants and peasants; but among people who possess estates and who control
                        vast interests, girls are—girls are—Well, they are born
                        and brought up to obey and to help forward the interests of their
                        houses." The old man was growing very drunk, and after a long pause
                        he continued: "Have your own way, Malcolm, but don't waste
                        time. Now that the matter is settled, I want to get it off my hands
                        quickly."
                    "I shall speak to Dorothy on the subject at the first favorable
                        opportunity," I responded; "but I warn you, Sir George,
                        that if Dorothy proves disinclined to marry me, I will not accept her
                        hand."
                    "Never fear for Doll; she will be all right," and we
                        parted.
                    Doll all right! Had he only known how very far from "all
                        right" Dorothy was, he would have slept little that night.
                    This brings me to the other change of which I spoke—the change in
                        Dorothy. Change? It was a metamor phosis.
                    A fortnight after the scene at The Peacock I accidentally discovered a
                        drawing made by Dorothy of a man with a cigarro in his mouth. The girl
                        snatched the paper from my hands and blushed convincingly.
                    "It is a caricature of—of him," she said. She
                        smiled, and evidently was willing to talk upon the subject of
                        "him." I declined the topic.
                    This happened a month or more previous to my conversation with Sir George
                        concerning Dorothy. A few days after my discovery of the cigarro picture,
                        Dorothy and I were out on the terrace together. Frequently when she was with
                        me she would try to lead the conversation to the topic which I well knew was
                        in her mind, if not in her heart, at all times. She would speak of our first
                        meeting  at The Peacock, and would use every
                        artifice to induce me to bring up the subject which she was eager to
                        discuss, but I always failed her. On the day mentioned when we were together
                        on the terrace, after repeated failures to induce me to speak upon the
                        desired topic, she said, "I suppose you never
                        meet—meet—him when you ride out?"
                    "Whom, Dorothy?" I asked.
                    "The gentleman with the cigarro," she responded, laughing
                        nervously.
                    "No," I answered, "I know nothing of
                        him."
                    The subject was dropped.
                    At another time she said, "He was in the
                        village—Overhaddon—yesterday."
                    Then I knew who "him" was.
                    "How do you know?" I asked.
                    "Jennie Faxton, the farrier's daughter, told me. She often
                        comes to the Hall to serve me. She likes to act as my maid, and is devoted
                        to me."
                    "Did he send any word to you?" I asked at a venture. The
                        girl blushed and hung her head. "N-o," she responded.
                    "What was it, Dorothy?" I asked gently. "You may
                        trust me."
                    "He sent no word to me," the girl responded.
                        "Jennie said she heard two gentlemen talking about me in front of
                        the farrier's shop, and one of them said something
                        about—oh, I don't know what it was. I can't tell
                        you. It was all nonsense, and of course he did not mean it."
                    "Tell me all, Dorothy," I said, seeing that she really
                        wanted to speak.
                    "Oh, he said something about having seen Sir George
                        Vernon's daughter at Rowsley, and—and—I
                        can't tell you what he said, I am too full of shame." If
                        her cheeks told the truth, she certainly was "full of
                        shame."
                    "Tell me all, sweet cousin; I am sorry for you," I said.
                             She raised her eyes to mine in quick
                        surprise with a look of suspicion.
                    "You may trust me, Dorothy. I say it again, you may trust me.
                    "He spoke of my beauty and called it marvellous," said the
                        girl. "He said that in all the world there was not another
                        woman—oh, I can't tell you."
                    "Yes, yes, go on, Dorothy," I insisted.
                    "He said," she continued, "that he could think of
                        nothing else but me day or night since he had first seen me at
                        Rowsley—that I had bewitched him and—and—Then the
                        other gentleman said, 'John, don't play with fire; it will
                        burn you. Nothing good can come of it for your.'"
                    "Did Jennie know who the gentleman was?" I asked.
                    "No," returned Dorothy.
                    "How do you know who he was?"
                    "Jennie described him," she said.
                    "How did she describe him?" I asked.
                    "She said he was—he was the handsomest man in the world
                        and—and that he affected her so powerfully she fell in love with
                        him in spite of herself. The little devil, to dare! You see that describes
                        him perfectly."
                    I laughed outright, and the girl blushed painfully.
                    "It does describe him," she said petulantly. "You
                        know it does. No one can gainsay that he is wonderfully, dangerously
                        handsome. I believe the woman does not live who could refrain from feasting
                        her eyes on his noble beauty. I wonder if I shall ever
                        again—again." Tears were in her voice and almost in her
                        eyes.
                    "Dorothy! My God, Dorothy!" I exclaimed in terror.
                        "Yes! yes! My God, Dorothy!" she responded, coering her
                        face with her hands and sighing deeply, as she drooped her head and left
                        me.
                    Yes, yes, my God, Dorothy! The helpless iron and the  terrible loadstone! The passive seed! The dissolving cloud and
                        the falling rain!
                    Less than a week after the above conversation, Dorothy, Madge, and I were
                        riding from Yulegrave Church up to the village of Overhaddon, which lies one
                        mile across the hills from Haddon Hall. My horse had cast a shoe, and we
                        stopped at Faxton's shop to have him shod. The town well is in the
                        middle of an open space called by the villagers "The
                        Open," around which are clustered the halfdozen houses and shops
                        that constitute the village. The girls were mounted, and I was standing
                        beside them in front of the farrier's, waiting for my horse. Jennie
                        Faxton, a wild, unkempt girl of sixteen, was standing in silent admiration
                        near Dorothy. Our backs were turned toward the well. Suddenly a light came
                        into Jennie's face, and she plucked Dorothy by the skirt of her
                        habit.
                    "Look, mistress, look! Look there by the well!" said Jennie
                        in a whisper. Dorothy looked toward the well. I also turned my head and
                        beheld my friend, Sir John, holding a bucket of water for his horse to
                        drink. I had not seen him since we parted at The Peacock, and I did not show
                        that I recognized him. I feared to betray our friendship to the villagers.
                        They, however, did not know Sir John, and I need not have been so cautious.
                        But Dorothy and Madge were with me, and of course I dared not make any
                        demonstration of acquaintanceship with the enemy of our house.
                    Dorothy watched John closely, and when he was ready to mount she struck her
                        horse with the whip, and boldly rode to the well.
                    "May I ask you to give my mare water" she said.
                    "Certainly. Ah, I beg pardon. I did not understand,"
                        answered Sir John, confusedly. John, the polished, selfpoised courtier, felt
                        the confusion of a country rustic in the presence of this wonderful girl,
                        whose knowledge of  life had been acquired
                        within the precincts of Haddon Hall. Yet the inexperienced girl was
                        self-poised and unconfused, while the wits of the courtier, who had often
                        calmly flattered the queen, had all gone wool-gathering.
                    She repeated her request.
                    "Certainly," returned John, "I—I knew
                        what you said—but—but you surprised me."
                    "Yes," said brazen Dorothy, "I have surprised
                        myself."
                    John, in his haste to satisfy Dolcy's thirst, dashed the water
                        against the skirt of Dorothy's habit, and was profuse in his
                        apologies.
                    "Do not mention it," said Dorothy. "I like a damp
                        habit. The wind cannot so easily blow it about," and she laughed as
                        she shook the garment to free it of the water. Dolcy refused to drink, and
                        Dorothy having no excuse to linger at the well, drew up her reins and
                        prepared to leave. While doing so, she said:—
                    "Do you often come to Overhaddon?" Her eager eyes shone
                        like red coals, and looking at John, she awaited smilingly his response.
                    "Seldom," answered John; not often. I mean every
                        day—that is, if I may come."
                    "Any one may come to the village whenever he wishes to do
                        so," responded Dorothy, laughing too plainly at Sir John's
                        confusion. "Is it seldom, or not often, or every day that you
                        come?" In her overconfidence she was chaffing him. He caught the
                        tone, and looked quickly into the girl's eyes. Her gaze could not
                        stand against John's for a moment, and the long lashes drooped to
                        shade her eyes from the fierce light of his.
                    "I said I would come to Overhaddon every day," he returned;
                        "and although I must have appeared very foolish in my confusion,
                        you cannot misunderstand the full meaning of my words."
                    
                    In John's boldness and in the ring of his voice Dorothy felt the
                        touch of her master, against whom she well knew all the poor force she could
                        muster would be utterly helpless. She was frightened, and
                        said:—
                    "I—I must go. Good-by."
                    When she rode away from him she thought: "I believed because of his
                        confusion that I was the stronger. I could not stand against him for a
                        moment. Holy Virgin! what have I done, and to what am I
                        coming?"
                    You may now understand the magnitude of the task which Sir George had set for
                        me when he bade me marry his daughter and kill the Rutlands. I might perform
                        the last-named feat, but dragon fighting would be mere child's play
                        compared with the first, while the girl's heart was filled with the
                        image of another man.
                    I walked forward to meet Dorothy, leaving Madge near the farrier's
                        shop.
                    "Dorothy, are you mad? What have you been doing?" I
                        asked.
                    "Could you not see?" she answered, under her breath,
                        casting a look of warning toward Madge and a glance of defiance at me.
                        "Are you, too, blind? Could you not see what I was
                        doing?"
                    "Yes," I responded.
                    "Then why do you ask?"
                    As I went back to Madge I saw John ride out of the village by the south road.
                        I afterward learned that he rode gloomily back to Rutland Castle cursing
                        himself for a fool. His duty to his father, which with him was a strong
                        motive, his family pride, his self-love, his sense of caution, all told him
                        that he was walking open-eyed into trouble. He had tried to remain away from
                        the vicinity of Haddon Hall, but, despite his self-respect and
                        self-restraint, he had made several visits to Rowsley and to Overhaddon, and
                        at one time had ridden to Bakewell,  passing
                        Haddon Hall on his way thither. He had as much business in the moon as at
                        Overhaddon, yet he told Dorothy he would be at the village every day, and
                        she, it seemed, was only too willing to give him opportunities to transact
                        his momentous affairs.
                    As the floating cloud to the fathomless blue, as the seed to the earth, as
                        the iron to the loadstone, so was Dorothy unto John.
                    Thus you see our beautiful pitcher went to the well and was broken.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    THE GOLDEN HEART
                    
                    THE day after Dorothy's first meeting with Manners at Overhaddon she
                        was restless and nervous, and about the hour of three in the afternoon she
                        mounted Dolcy and rode toward Bakewell. That direction, I was sure, she took
                        for the purpose of misleading us at the Hall, and I felt confident she
                        would, when once out of sight, head her mare straight for Overhaddon. Within
                        an hour Dorothy was home again, and very illtempered.
                    The next day she rode out in the morning. I asked her if I should ride with
                        her, and the empatic "No" with which she answered me left
                        no room for doubt in my mind concerning her desire for my company or her
                        destination. Again she returned within an hour and hurried to her
                        apartments. Shortly afterward Madge asked me what Dorothy was weeping about;
                        and although in my own mind I was confident of the cause of
                        Dorothy's tears, I, of course, did not give Madge a hint of my
                        suspicion. Yet I then knew, quite as well as I now know, that John,
                        notwithstanding the important business which he said would bring him to
                        Overhaddon every day, had forced himself to remain at home, and Dorothy, in
                        consequence, suffered from anger and wounded pride. She had twice ridden to
                        Overhaddon to meet him. She had done for his sake that which she knew she
                        should have left undone,  and he had refused
                        the offering. A smarting conscience, an aching heart, and a breast full of
                        anger were Dorothy's rewards for her evil doing. The day after her
                        second futile trip to Overhaddon, I, to test her, spoke of John. She turned
                        upon me with the black look of a fury, and hurled her words at me.
                    "Never again speak his despised name in my hearing. Curse him and
                        his whole race."
                    "Now what has he been doing?" I asked.
                    "I tell you, I will not speak of him, nor will I listen to
                        you," and she dashed away from me like a fiery whirl-wind.
                    Four or five days later the girl rode out again upon Dolcy. She was away from
                        home for four long hours, and when she returned she was so gentle, sweet,
                        and happy that she was willing to kiss every one in the household from
                        Welch, the butcher, to Sir George. She was radiant. She clung to Madge and
                        to me, and sang and romped through the house like Dorothy of old.
                    Madge said, "I am so glad you are feeling better, Dorothy."
                        Then, speaking to me: "She has been ill for several days. She could
                        not sleep."
                    Dorothy looked quickly over to me, gave a little shrug to her shoulders, bent
                        forward her face, which was red with blushing, and kissed Madge lingeringly
                        upon the lips.
                    The events of Dorothy's trip I soon learned from her.
                    The little scene between Dorothy, Madge, and myself, after Dorothy's
                        joyful return, occurred a week before the momentous conversation between Sir
                        George and me concerning my union with his house. Ten days after Sir George
                        had offered me his daughter and his lands, he brought up the subject again.
                        He and I were walking on the ridge of Bowling Green Hill.
                    "I am glad you are making such fair progress with  Doll," said Sir George.
                        "Have you yet spoken to her upon the subject?"
                    I was surprised to hear that I had made any progress. In fact, I did not know
                        that I had taken a single step. I was curious to learn in what the progress
                        consisted, so I said:—
                    "I have not spoken to Dorothy yet concerning the marriage, and I
                        fear that I have made no progress at all. She certainly is friendly enough
                        to me, but—"
                    "I should say that the gift from you she exhibited would indicate
                        considerable progress," said Sir George, casting an expressive
                        glance toward me.
                    "What gift?" I stupidly inquired.
                    "The golden heart, you rascal. She said you told her it had belonged
                        to your mother."
                    "Holy Mother of Truth!" thought I, "pray give your
                        especial care to my cousin Dorothy. She needs it."
                    Sir George thrust at my side with his thumb and continued:—
                    "Don't deny it, Malcolm. Damme, you are as shy as a boy in
                        this matter. But perhaps you know better than I how to go at her. I was
                        thinking only the other day that your course was probably the right one.
                        Doll, I suspect, has a dash of her old father's temper, and she may
                        prove a little troublesome unless we let her think she is having her own
                        way. Oh, there is nothing like knowing how to handle them, Malcolm. Just let
                        them think they are having their own way and—and save trouble. Doll
                        may have more of her father in her than I suspect, and perhaps it is well
                        for us to move slowly. You will be able end she should prove stubborn, we
                        will break her will or break her neck. I would rather have a daughter in
                        Bakewell churchyard than a wilful, stubborn, disobedient huzzy in Haddon
                        Hall."
                    
                    Sir George had been drinking, and my slip concerning the gift passed
                        unnoticed by him.
                    "I am sure you well know how to proceed in this matter, but
                        don't be too cautious, Malcolm; the best woman living loves to be
                        stormed."
                    "Trust me," I answered, "I shall
                        speak—" and my words unconsciously sank away to thought,
                        as thought often, and inconveniently at times, grows into words.
                    "Dorothy, Dorothy," said the thoughts again and again,
                        "where came you by the golden heart?" and "where
                        learned you so villanously to lie?"
                    "From love," was the response, whispered by the sighing
                        winds. "From love, that makes men and women like unto gods and
                        teaches them the tricks of devils." "From love,"
                        murmured the dry rustling leaves and the rugged trees. "From
                        love," sighed the fleecy clouds as they floated in the sweet
                        restful azure of the vaulted sky. "From love," cried the
                        mighty sun as he poured his light and heat upon the eager world to give it
                        life. I would not give a fig for a woman, however, who would not lie herself
                        black in the face for the sake of her lover, and I am glad that it is a
                        virtue few women lack. One who but you understand. I suppose that Dorothy
                        had never before uttered a real lie. She hated all that was evil and loved
                        all that was good till love came a-teaching.
                    I quickly invented an excuse to leave Sir George, and returned to the Hall to
                        seek Dorothy. I found her and asked her to accompany me for a few minutes
                        that I might speak with her privately. We went out upon the terrace, and I
                        at once began:—
                    "You should tell me when I present you gifts that I may not cause
                        trouble by my ignorance nor show surprise when I suddenly learn what I have
                        done. You see when a man gives a lady a gift and he does not know it, he is
                        apt to—"  "Holy
                        Virgin! exclaimed Dorothy, pale with fear and consternation. "Did
                        you—"
                    No, I did not betray you, but I came perilously near it."
                    "I—I wanted to tell you about it. I tried several times to
                        do so—I did so long to tell somebody, but I could not bring myself
                        to speak. I was full of shame, yet I was proud and happy, for all that
                        happened was good and pure and sacred. You are not a woman; you cannot
                        know—"
                    "But I do know. I know that you saw Manners the other day, and that
                        he gave you a golden heart."
                    "How did you know? Did any one—"
                    "Tell me? No. I knew it when you returned after five hours'
                        absence, looking radiant as the sun."
                    "Oh!" the girl exclaimed, with a startled movement.
                    "I also knew," I continued, "that at other times
                        when you rode out upon Dolcy you had not seen him."
                    "How did you know?" she asked, with quick-coming
                        breath.
                    "By your ill-humor," I answered.
                    "I knew it was so. I felt that everybody knew all that I had been
                        doing. I could almost see father and Madge and you—even the
                        servants—reading the wickedness written upon my heart. I knew that
                        I could hide it from nobody." Tears were very near the
                        girl's eyes.
                    "We cannot help thinking that our guilty consciences, through which
                        we see so plainly our own evil, are transparent to all the world. In that
                        fact lies an evil-doer's greatest danger," said I,
                        preacher fashion; "but you need have no fear. What you have done I
                        believe is suspected by no one save me."
                    A deep sigh of relief rose from the girl's heaving breast.
                    "Well," she began, "I will tell you all about it,
                        and I am only too glad to do so. It is heavy, Malcolm,  heavy on my conscience. But I would not be rid of it for all
                        the kingdoms of the earth."
                    "A moment since you told me that your conduct was good and pure and
                        sacred, and now you tell me that it is heavy on your conscience. Does one
                        grieve, Dorothy, for the sake of that which is good and pure and
                        sacred?"
                    "I cannot answer your question," she replied. "I
                        am no priest. But this I know: I have done no evil, and my conscience
                        nevertheless is sore. Solve me the riddle, Malcolm, if you
                        can."
                    "I cannot solve your riddle, Dorothy," I replied;
                        "but I feel sure it will be far safer for each of us if you will
                        tell me all that happens hereafter."
                    "I am sure you are right," she responded; "but
                        some secrets are so delicious that we love to suck their sweets alone. I
                        believe, however, your advice is good, and I will tell you all that has
                        happened, though I cannot look you in the face while doing it." She
                        hesitated a moment, and her face was red with tell-tale blushes. She
                        continued, "I have acted most unmaidenly."
                    "Unmaidenly perhaps, but not unwomanly," said I.
                    "I thank you," she said, interrupting my sentence. It
                        probably was well that she did so, for I was about to add, "To act
                        womanly often means to get yourself into mischief and your friends into as
                        much trouble as possible." Had I finished my remark, she would not
                        have thanked me.
                    "Well," said the girl, beginning her laggard narrative,
                        "after we saw—saw him at Overhaddon, you know, I went to
                        the village on each of three days—
                    "Yes, I know that also," I said.
                    "How did you—but never mind. I did not see him, and when I
                        returned home I felt angry and hurt and—and—but never mind
                        that either. One day I found him, and I at once rode to the well where he
                        was standing  by his horse. He drew water for
                        Dolcy, but the perverse mare would not drink."
                    "A characteristic of her sex," I muttered.
                    "What did you say?" asked the girl.
                    "Nothing."
                    She continued: "He seemed constrained and distant in his manner, but
                        I knew, that is, I thought—I mean I felt—oh, you
                        know—he looked as if he were glad to see me and I—I, oh,
                        God! I was so glad and happy to see him that I could hardly restrain myself
                        to act at all maidenly. He must have heard my heart beat. I thought he was
                        in trouble. He seemed to have something he wished to say to
                        me."
                    "He doubtless had a great deal he wished to say to you,"
                        said I, again tempted to futile irony.
                    "I was sure he had something to say," the girl returned
                        seriously. "He was in trouble. I knew that he was, and I longed to
                        help him."
                    "What trouble?" I inquired.
                    "Oh, I don't know. I forgot to ask, but he looked
                        troubled."
                    "Doubtless he was troubled," I responded. "He had
                        sufficient cause for trouble," I finished the sentence to myself
                        with the words, "in you."
                    "What was the cause of his trouble?" she hastily asked,
                        turning her face toward me.
                    "I do not know certainly," I answered in a tone of irony
                        which should have pierced an oak board, while the girl listened and looked
                        at me eagerly; "but I might guess."
                    "What was it? What was it? Let me hear you guess," she
                        asked.
                    "You," I responded laconically.
                    "I!" she exclaimed in surprise.
                    "Yes, you," I responded with emphasis. "You would
                        bring trouble to any man, but to Sir John Manners—well,  if he intends to keep up these meetings with
                        you it would be better for his peace and happiness that he should get him a
                        house in hell, for he would live there more happily than on this
                        earth."
                    "That is a foolish, senseless remark, Malcolm," the girl
                        replied, tossing her head with a show of anger in her eyes. "This
                        is no time to jest." I suppose I could not have convinced her that
                        I was not jesting.
                    "At first we did not speak to each other even to say good day, but
                        stood by the well in silence for a very long time. The village people were
                        staring at us, and I felt that every window had a hundred faces in it, and
                        every face a hundred eyes."
                    "You imagined that," said I, "because of your
                        guilty conscience."
                    "Perhaps so. But it seemed to me that we stood by the well in
                        silence a very long time. You see, Cousin Malcolm, I was not the one who
                        should speak first. I had done more than my part in going to meet
                        him."
                    "Decidedly so," said I, interrupting the interesting
                        narrative.
                    "When I could bear the gaze of the villagers no longer, I drew up my
                        reins and started to leave The Open by the north road. After Dolcy had
                        climbed halfway up North Hill, which as you know overlooks the village, I
                        turned my head and saw Sir John still standing by the well, resting his hand
                        upon his horse's mane. He was watching me. I grew angry, and
                        determined that he should follow me, even if I had to call him. So I drew
                        Dolcy to a stand. Was not that bold in me? But wait, there is worse to come,
                        Malcolm. He did not move, but stood like a statue looking toward me. I knew
                        that he wanted to come, so after a little time I—I beckoned to him
                        and—and then he came like a thunderbolt. Oh! it was delicious. I
                        put Dolcy to a gallop, for when he started toward me I was frightened.  Besides I did not want him to overtake me till
                        we were out of the village. But when once he had started, he did not wait.
                        He was as swift now as he had been slow, and my heart throbbed and triumphed
                        because of his eagerness, though in truth I was afraid of him. Dolcy, you
                        know, is very fleet, and when I touched her with the whip she soon put half
                        a mile between me and the village. Then I brought her to a walk
                        and—and he quickly overtook me.
                    "When he came up to me he said: 'I feared to follow you,
                        though I ardently wished to do so. I dreaded to tell you my name lest you
                        should hate me. Sir Malcolm at The Peacock said he would not disclose to you
                        my identity. I am John Manners. Our fathers are enemies.'
                    "Then I said to him, 'That is the reason I wish to talk to
                        you. I wished you to come to meet me because I wanted to tell you that I
                        regret and deplore the feud between our fathers.'—Ah, you
                        wished me to come?' he asked.—' Of course I
                        did,' I answered, 'else why should I be
                        here?'—' No one regrets the feud between our
                        houses so deeply as I,' replied Sir John. 'I can think of
                        nothing else by day, nor can I dream of anything else by night. It is the
                        greatest cause for grief and sorrow that has ever come into my
                        life.' You see, Cousin Malcolm," the girl continued,
                        "I was right. His father's conduct does trouble him.
                        Isn't he noble and broad-minded to see the evil of his
                        father's ways?"
                    I did not tell the girl that Sir John's regret for the feud between
                        the houses of Manners and Vernon grew out of the fact that it separated him
                        from her; nor did I tell her that he did not grieve over his
                        "father's ways."
                    I asked, "Did Sir John tell you that he grieved because of his
                        father's ill-doing?"
                    "N-o, not in set terms, but—that, of course, would have
                        been very hard for him to say. I told you what he said, and there could be
                        no other meaning to his words."
                    
                    "Of course not," I responded.
                    "No, and I fairly longed to reach out my hand and clutch him,
                        because—because—I was so sorry for him."
                    "Was sorrow your only feeling?" I asked.
                    The girl looked at me for a moment, and her eyes filled with tears. Then she
                        sobbed gently and said, "Oh, Cousin Malcolm, you are so old and so
                        wise." ("Thank you," thought I, "a
                        second Daniel come to judgment at thirty-five; or Solomon and Methuselah in
                        one.") She continued: "Tell me, tell me, what is this
                        terrible thing that has come upon me. I seem to be living in a dream. I am
                        burning with a fever, and a heavy weight is here upon my breast. I cannot
                        sleep at night. I can do nothing but long and yearn for—for I know
                        not what—till at times it seems that some frightful, unseen monster
                        is slowly drawing the heart out of my bosom. I think of—of him at
                        all times, and I try to recall his face, and the tones of his voice until,
                        Cousin Malcolm, I tell you I am almost mad. I call upon the Holy Virgin hour
                        by hour to pity me; but she is pure, and cannot know what I feel. I hate and
                        loathe myself. To what am I coming? Where will it all end? Yet I can do
                        nothing to save myself. I am powrless against this terrible feeling. I
                        cannot even resolve to resist it. It came upon me mildly that day at The
                        Peacock Inn, when I first saw him, and it grows deeper and stronger day by
                        day, and, alas! night by night. I seem to have lost myself. In some strange
                        way I feel as if I had sunk into him—that he had absorbed
                        me."
                    "The iron, the seed, the cloud, and the rain," thought
                        I.
                    "I believed," continued the girl, "that if he
                        would exert his will I might have relief; but there again I find trouble for
                        I cannot bring myself to ask him to will it. The feeling within me is like a
                        sore heart: painful as it is, I must keep it. Without it I fear I could not
                        live."
                    After this outburst there was a long pause during which  she walked by my side, seemingly unconscious that I was near
                        her. I had known for some time that Dorothy was interested in Manners; but I
                        was not prepared to see such a volcano of passion. I need not descant upon
                        the evils and dangers of the situation. The thought that first came to me
                        was that Sir George would surely kill his daughter before he would allow her
                        to marry a son of Rutland. I was revolving in my mind how I should set about
                        to mend the matter when Dorothy again spoke.
                    "Tell me, Cousin Malcolm, can a man throw a spell over a woman and
                        bewitch her?"
                    "I do not know. I have never heard of a man witch," I
                        responded.
                    "No?" asked the girl.
                    "But," I continued, "I do know that a woman may
                        bewitch a man. John Manners, I doubt not, could also testify knowingly on
                        the subject by this time."
                    "Oh, do you think he is bewitched?" cried Dorothy, grasping
                        my arm and looking eagerly into my face. "If I could bewitch him, I
                        would do it. I would deal with the devil gladly to learn the art. I would
                        not care for my soul. I do not fear the future. The present is a
                        thousand-fold dearer to me than either the past or the future. I care not
                        what comes hereafter. I want him now. Ah, Malcolm, pity my
                        shame."
                    She covered her face wiith her hands, and after a moment continued:
                        "I am not myself. I belong not to myself. But if I knew that he
                        also suffers, I do believe my pain would be less."
                    "I think you may set your heart at rest upon that point," I
                        answered. "He, doubtless, also suffers."
                    "I hope so," she responded, unconscious of the selfish wish
                        she had expressed. "If he does not, I know not what will be my
                        fate."
                    I saw that I had made a mistake in assuring her that  John also suffered, and I determined to correct it later on, if
                        possible.
                    Dorothy was silent, and I said, "You have not told me about the
                        golden heart."
                    "I will tell you," she answered. "We rode for two
                        hours or more, and talked of the weather and the scenery, until there was
                        nothing more to be said concerning either. Then Sir John told me of the
                        court in London, where he has always lived, and of the queen whose hair, he
                        says, is red, but not at all like mine. I wondered if he would speak of the
                        beauty of my hair, but he did not. He only looked at it. Then he told me
                        about the Scottish queen whom he once met when he was on an embassy to
                        Edinburgh. He described her marvellous beauty, and I believe he sympathizes
                        with her cause—that is, with her cause in Scotland. He says she has
                        no good cause in England. He is true to our queen. Well—well he
                        talked so interestingly that I could have listened a whole
                        month—yes, all my life."
                    "I suppose you could," I said.
                    "Yes," she continued, "but I could not remain
                        longer from home, and when I left him he asked me to accept a keepsake which
                        had belonged to his mother, as a token that there should be no feud between
                        him and me." And she drew from her bosom a golden heart studded
                        with diamonds and pierced by a white silver arrow.
                    "I, of course, accepted it, then we said
                        'good-by,' and I put Dolcy to a gallop that she might
                        speedily take me out of temptation."
                    "Have you ridden to Overhaddon for the purpose of seeing Manners
                        many times since he gave you the heart?" I queried.
                    "What would you call 'many times'" she
                        asked, drooping her head.
                    "Every day?" I said interrogatively. She nodded.  "Yes. But I have seen him only once
                        since the day when he gave me the heart."
                    Nothing I could say would do justice to the subject, so I remained
                        silent.
                    "But you have not yet told me how your father came to know of the
                        golden heart," I said.
                    "It was this way: One morning while I was looking at the heart,
                        father came upon me suddenly before I could conceal it. He asked me to tell
                        him how I came by the jewel, and in my fright and confusion I could think of
                        nothing else to say, so I told him you had given it to me. He promised not
                        to speak to you about the heart, but he did not keep his word. He seemed
                        pleased."
                    "Doubtless he was pleased," said I, hoping to lead up to
                        the subject so near to Sir George's heart, but now farther than
                        ever from mine.
                    The girl unsuspectingly helped me.
                    "Father asked if you had spoken upon a subject of great interest to
                        him and to yourself, and I told him you had not. 'When he does
                        speak,' said father most kindly, 'I want you to grant his
                        request'—and I will grant it, Cousin Malcolm."
                        She looked in my face and continued: "I will grant your request,
                        whatever it may be. You are the dearest friend I have in the world, and mine
                        is the most loving and lovable father that girl ever had. It almost breaks
                        my heart when I think of his suffering should he learn of what I have
                        done—that which I just told to you." She walked beside me
                        meditatively for a moment and said, "To-morrow I will return Sir
                        John's gift and I will never see him again."
                    I felt sure that by to-morrow she would have repented of her repentance; but
                        I soon discovered that I had given her much more time than she needed to
                        perform that trifling feminine gymnastic, for with the next breath she
                        said:—
                    "I have no means of returning the heart. I must see  him once more and I will give—give
                        it—it—back to—to him, and will tell him that I
                        can see him never again." She scarcely had sufficient resolution to
                        finish telling her intention. Whence, then, would come the will to put it in
                        action? Forty thieves could not have stolen the heart from her, though she
                        thought she was honest when she said she would take it to him.
                    "Dorothy," said I, seriously but kindly, "have you
                        and Sir Hohn spoken of—"
                    She evidently knew that I meant to say "of love," for she
                        interrupted me.
                    "N-o, but surely he knows. And I—I think—at least
                        I hope with all my heart that—"
                    "I will take the heart to Sir John," said I, interrupting
                        her angrily, "and you need not see him again. He has acted like a
                        fool and a knave. He is a villain, Dorothy, and I will tell him as much in
                        the most emphatic terms I have at my command."
                    "Dare you speak against him or to him upon the subject!"
                        she exclaimed, her eyes blazing with anger; "you—you asked
                        for my confidence and I gave it. You said I might trust you and I did so,
                        and now you show me that I am a fool indeed. Traitor!"
                    "My dear cousin," said I, seeing that she spoke the truth
                        in charging me with bad faith, "your secret is safe with me. I
                        swear it by my knighthood. You may trust me. I spoke in anger. But Sir John
                        has acted badly. That you cannot gainsay. You, too, have done great evil.
                        That also you cannot gainsay."
                    "No," said the girl, dejectedly, "I cannot deny
                        it; but the greatest evil is yet to come."
                    "You must do something," I continued. "You must
                        take some decisive step that will break this connection, and you must take
                        the step at once if you would save yourself from the frightful evil that is
                        in store for you. Forgive  me for what I said,
                        sweet cousin. My angry words sprang from my love for you and my fear for
                        your future."
                    No girl's heart was more tender to the influence of kindness than
                        Dorothy's. No heart was more obdurate to unkindness or peremptory
                        command.
                    My words softened her at once, and she tried to smother the anger I had
                        aroused. But she did not entirely succeed, and a spark remained which in a
                        moment or two created a disastrous conflagration. You shall hear.
                    She walked by my side in silence for a little time, and then spoke in a low,
                        slightly sullen tone which told of her effort to smother her resentment.
                    "I do trust you, Cousin Malcolm. What is it that you wish to ask of
                        me? Your request is granted before it is made."
                    "Do not be too sure of that, Dorothy," I replied.
                        "It is a request your father ardently desires me to make, and I do
                        not know how to speak to you concerning the subject in the way I
                        wish."
                    I could not ask her to marry me, and tell her with the same breath that I did
                        not want her for my wife. I felt I must wait for a further opportunity to
                        say that I spoke only because her father had required me to do so, and that
                        circumstances forced me to put the burden of refusal upon her. I well knew
                        that she would refuse me, and then I intended to explain.
                    "Why, what is it all about? "asked the girl in surprise,
                        suspecting, I believe, what was to follow,
                    "It is this: your father is anxious that his vast estates shall not
                        pass out of the family name, and he wishes you to be my wife, so that your
                        children may bear the loved name of Vernon."
                    I could not have chosen a more inauspicious time to speak. She looked at me
                        for an instant in surprise  turning to scorn.
                        Then she spoke in tones of withering contempt.
                    "Tell my father that I shall never bear a child by the name of
                        Vernon. I would rather go barren to my grave. Ah! that is why Sir John
                        Manners is a villain? That is why a decisive step should be taken? That is
                        why you come to my father's house a-fortune-hunting? After you have
                        squandered your patrimony and have spent a dissolute youth in profligacy,
                        after the women of the class younger men, you who are old enough to be my
                        father come here and seek your fortune, as your father sought his, by
                        marriage. I do not believe that my father wishes me to—to marry
                        you. You have wheedled him into giving his consent when he was in his cups.
                        But even if he wished it with all his heart, I would not marry
                        you."
                    Then she turned and walked rapidly toward the Hall.
                    Her fierce words angered me; for in the light of my real intentions her scorn
                        was uncalled for, and her language was insulting beyond endurance. For a
                        moment or two the hot blood rushed to my brain and rendered me incapable of
                        intelligent thought. But as Dorothy walked from me I realized that something
                        must be done at once to put myself right with her. When my fit of temper had
                        cooled, and when I considered that the girl did not know my real intentions,
                        I could not help acknowledging that in view of all that had just passed
                        between us concerning Sir John Manners, and, in fact, in view of all that
                        she had seen and could see, her anger was justifiable.
                    I called to her: "Dorothy, wait a moment. You have not heard all I
                        have to say."
                    She hastened her pace. A few rapid strides brought me to her side. I was
                        provoked, not at her words, for they were almost justifiable, but because
                        she would  not stop to hear me. I grasped her
                        rudely by the arm and said:—
                    "Listen till I have finished."
                    "I will not," she answered viciously. "Do not
                        touch me."
                    I still held her by the arm and said: "I do not wish to marry you. I
                        spoke only because your father desired me to do so, and because my refusal
                        to speak would have offended him beyond any power of mine to make amends. I
                        could not tell you that I did not wish you for my wife until you had given
                        me an opportunity. I was forced to throw the burden of refusal upon
                        you."
                    "That is but a ruse—a transparent, flimsy ruse,"
                        responded the stubborn, angry girl, endeavoring to draw her arm from my
                        grasp.
                    "It is not a ruse," I answered. "If you will
                        listen to me and will help me by acting as I suggest, we may between us
                        bring your father to our way of thinking, and I may still be able to retain
                        his friendship."
                    "What is your great plan?" asked Dorothy, in a voice such
                        as one might expect to hear from a piece of ice.
                    "I have formed no plan as yet," I replied,
                        "although I have thought of several. Until we can determine upon
                        one, I suggest that you permit me to say to your father that I have asked
                        you to be my wife, and that the subject has come upon you so suddenly that
                        you wish a short time—a fortnight or a month—in which to
                        consider your answer."
                    "That is but a ruse, I say, to gain time," she answered
                        contemptuously. "I do not wish one moment in which to consider. You
                        already have my answer. I should think you had had enough. Do you desire
                        more of the same sort? A little of such treatment should go a long way with
                        a man possessed of one spark of honor or self-respect."
                    Her language would have angered a sheep.
                    
                    "If you will not listen to me," I answered, thoroughly
                        aroused and careless of consequences, "go to your father. Tell him
                        I asked you to be my wife, and that you scorned my suit. Then take the
                        consequences. He has always been gentle and tender to you because there has
                        been no conflict. Cross his desires, and you will learn a fact of which you
                        have never dreamed. You have seen the manner in which he treats others who
                        oppose him. You will learn that with you, too, he can be one of the cruelest
                        and most violent of men."
                    "You slander my father. I will go to him as you advise and will tell
                        him that I would not marry you if you wore the English crown. I, myself,
                        will tell him of my meeting with Sir John Manners rather than allow you the
                        pleasure of doing so. He will be angry, but he will pity me."
                    "For God's sake, Dorothy, do not tell your father of your
                        meetings at Overhaddon. He would kill you. Have you lived in the same house
                        with him all these years and do you not better know his character than to
                        think that you may go to him with the tale you have just told me, and that
                        he will forgive you? Feel as you will toward me, but believe me when I swear
                        to you by my knighthood that I will betray to no person what you have this
                        day divulged to me."
                    Dorothy made no reply, but turned from me and rapidly walked toward the Hall.
                        I followed at a short distance, and all my anger was displaced by fear for
                        her. When we reached the Hall she quickly sought her father and approached
                        him in her old free manner, full of confidence in her influence over
                        him.
                    "Father, this man"—waving her hand toward
                        me—"has come to Haddon Hall a-fortune-hunting. He has
                        asked me to be his wife, and says you wish me to accept him."
                    
                    "Yes, Doll, I certainly wish it with all my heart,"
                        returned Sir George, affectionately, taking his daughter's
                        hand.
                    "Then you need wish it no longer, for I will not marry
                        him."
                    "What?" demanded her father, springing to his feet.
                    "I will not. I will not. I will not."
                    "You will if I command you to do so, you damned insolent
                        wench," answered Sir George, hoarsely. Dorothy's eyes
                        opened in wonder.
                    "Do not deceive yourself, father, for one moment," she
                        retorted contemptuously. "He has come here in sheep's
                        clothing and has adroitly laid his plans to convince you that I should marry
                        him, but—"
                    "He has done nothing of the sort," answered Sir George,
                        growing more angry every moment, but endeavoring to be calm.
                        "Nothing of the sort. Many years ago I spoke to him on this
                        subject, which is very dear to my heart. The project has been dear to me
                        ever since you were a child. When I again broached it to Malcolm a fortnight
                        or more since I feared from his manner that he was averse to the scheme. I
                        had tried several times to speak to him about it, but he warded me off, and
                        when I did speak, I feared that he was not inclined to it."
                    "Yes," interrupted the headstrong girl, apparently bent
                        upon destroying both of us. "He pretended that he did not wish to
                        marry me. He said he wished me to give a sham consent for the purpose of
                        gaining time till we might hit upon some plan by which we could change your
                        mind. He said he had no desire nor intention to marry me. It was but a poor,
                        lame ruse on his part."
                    During Dorothy's recital Sir George turned his face from her to me.
                        When she had finished speaking, he looked at me for a moment and
                        said:—
                    "Does my daughter speak the truth? Did you
                        say—"
                    
                    "Yes," I promptly replied, "I have no intention of
                        marrying your daughter." Then hoping to place myself before Sir
                        George in a better light, I continued: "I could not accept the hand
                        of a lady against her will. I told you as much when we conversed on the
                        subject."
                    "What?" exclaimed Sir George, furious with anger.
                    "You too? You whom I have befriended?"
                    "I told you, Sir George, I would not marry Dorothy without her free
                        consent. No gentleman of honor would accept the enforced compliance of a
                        woman."
                    "But Doll says that you told her you had no intention of marrying
                        her even should she consent," replied Sir George.
                    "I don't know that I spoke those exact words," I
                        replied, "but you may consider them said."
                    "You damned, ungrateful, treacherous hound!" stormed Sir
                        George. "You listened to me when I offered you my
                        daughter's hand, and you pretended to consent without at the time
                        having any intention of doing so."
                    "That, I suppose, is true, Sir George," said I, making a
                        masterful effort against anger. "That is true, for I knew that
                        Dorothy would not consent; and and had I been inclined to the marriage, I
                        repeat, I would marry no woman against her will. No gentleman would do
                        it."
                    My remark threw Sir George into a paroxysm of rage.
                    "I did it, you cur, you dog, you—you traitorous,
                        ungrateful—I did it."
                    "Then, Sir George," said I, interrupting him, for I was no
                        longer able to restrain my anger, "you were a cowardly
                        poltroon."
                    "This to me in my house!" he cried, grasping a chair with
                        which to strike me. Dorothy came between us.
                    "Yes," said I, "and as much more as you wish to
                        hear." I stood my ground, and Sir George put down the chair.
                    
                    "Leave my house at once," he said in a whisper of rage.
                    "If you are on my premises in one hour from now I will have you
                        flogged from my door by the butcher."
                    "What have I done?" cried Dorothy. "What have I
                        done?"
                    "Your regrets come late, Mistress Vernon," said I.
                    "She shall have more to regret," said Sir George, sullenly.
                        "Go to your room, you brazen, disobedient huzzy, and if you leave
                        it without my permission, by God, I will have you whipped till you bleed. I
                        will teach you to say 'I won't' when I say
                        'you shall.' God curse my soul, if I don't make
                        you repent this day!"
                    As I left the room Dorothy was in tears, and Sir George was walking the floor
                        in a towering rage. The girl had learned that I was right in what I had told
                        her concerning her father's violent temper.
                    I went at once to my room in Eagle Tower and collected my few belongings in a
                        bundle. Pitifully small it was, I tell you.
                    Where I should go I knew not, and where I should remain I knew even less, for
                        my purse held only a few shillings—the remnant of the money Queen
                        Mary had sent to me by the hand of Sir Thomas Douglas. England was as unsafe
                        for me as Scotland; but how I might travel to France without money, and how
                        I might without a pass evade Elizabeth's officers who guarded every
                        English port, even were I supplied with gold, were problems for which I had
                        no solution.
                    There were but two persons in Haddon Hall to whom I cared to say farewell.
                        They were Lady Madge and Will Dawson. The latter was a Scot, and was
                        attached to the cause of Queen Mary. He and I had become friends, and on
                        several occasions we had talked confidentially over Mary's sad
                        plight.
                    When my bundle was packed, I sought Madge and 
                        found her in the gallery near the foot of the great staircase. She knew my
                        step and rose to greet me with a bright smile.
                    "I have come to say good-by to you, Cousin Madge," said I.
                        The smile vanished from her face.
                    "You are not going to leave Haddon Hall?" she asked.
                    "Yes, and forever," I responded. "Sir George has
                        ordered me to go."
                    "No, no," she exclaimed. "I cannot believe it. I
                        supposed that you and my uncle were friends. What has happened? Tell me if
                        you can—if you wish. Let me touch your hand," and as she
                        held out her hands, I gladly grasped them.
                    I have never seen anything more beautiful than Madge Stanley's
                        hands. They were not small, but their shape, from the fair, round forearm
                        and wrist to the ends of the fingers was worthy of a sculptor's
                        dream. Beyond their physical beauty there was an expression in them which
                        would have belonged to her eyes had she possessed the sense of sight. The
                        flood of her vital energy had for so many years been directed toward her
                        hands as a substitute for her lost eyesight that their sensitiveness showed
                        itself not only in an infinite variety of delicate gestures and movements,
                        changing with her changing moods, but they had an expression of their own,
                        such as we look for in the eyes. I had gazed upon her hands so often, and
                        had studied so carefully their varying expression, discernible both to my
                        sight and to my touch, that I could read her mind through them as we read
                        the emotions of others through the countenance. The "feel"
                        of her hands, if I may use the word, I can in no way describe. Its effect on
                        me was magical. The happiest moments I have ever known were those when I
                        held the fair blind girl by the hand and strolled upon the great terrace or
                        followed the  babbling winding course of dear
                        old Wye, and drank in the elixir of all that is good and pure from the cup
                        of her sweet, unconscious influence.
                    Madge, too, had found happiness in our strolling. She had also found health
                        and strength, and, marvellous to say, there had come to her a slight
                        improvement in vision. She had always been able to distinguish sunlight from
                        darkness, but with renewed strength had come the power dimly to discern dark
                        objects in a strong light, and even that small change for the better had
                        brought unspeakable gladness to her heart. She said she owed it all to me. A
                        faint pink had spread itself in her cheeks and a plumpness had been imparted
                        to her form which gave to her ethereal beauty a touch of the material. Nor
                        was this to be regretted, for no man can adequately make love to a woman who
                        has too much of the angel in her. You must not think, however, that I had
                        been making love to Madge. On the contrary, I again say, the thought had
                        never entered my mind. Neither at that time had I even suspected that she
                        would listen to me upon the great theme. I had in my self-analysis assigned
                        many reasons other than love for my tenderness toward her; but when I was
                        about to depart, and she impulsively gave me her hands, I, believing that I
                        was grasping them for the last time, felt the conviction come upon me that
                        she was dearer to me than all else in life.
                    "Do you want to tell me why my uncle has driven you from
                        Haddon?" she asked.
                    "He wished me to ask Dorothy to be my wife," I
                        returned.
                    "And you?" she queried.
                    "I did so."
                    Instantly the girl withdrew her hands from mine and stepped back from me.
                        Then I had another revelation. I knew what she meant and felt. Her hands
                        told me all,  even had there been no expression
                        in her movement and in her face.
                    "Dorothy refused," I continued, "and her father
                        desired to force her into compliance. I would not be a party to the
                        transaction, and Sir George ordered me to leave his house."
                    After a moment of painful silence Madge said:—
                    "I do not wonder that you should wish to marry Dorothy.
                        She—she must be very beautiful."
                    "I do not wish to marry Dorothy," said I. I heard a slight
                        noise back of me, but gave it no beed. "And I should not have
                        married her had she consented. I knew that Dorothy would refuse me,
                        therefore I promised Sir George that I would ask her to be my wife. Sir
                        George had always been my friend, and should I refuse to comply with his
                        wishes, I well knew he would be my enemy. He is bitterly angry against me
                        now; but when he becomes calm, he will see wherein he has wronged me. I
                        asked Dorothy to help me, but she would not listen to my plan."
                    "—and now she begs your forgiveness," cried
                        Dorothy, as she ran weeping to me, and took my hand most humbly.
                    "Dorothy! Dorothy!" I exclaimed.
                    "What frightful evil have I brought upon you?" said she.
                        "Where can you go? What will you do?"
                    "I know not," I answered. "I shall probably go to
                        the Tower of London when Queen Elizabeth's officers learn of my
                        quarrel with Sir George. But I will try to escape to France."
                    "Have you money?" asked Madge, tightly holding one of my
                        hands.
                    "A small sum," I answered.
                    "How much have you? Tell me. Tell me how much have you,"
                        insisted Madge, clinging to my hand and speaking with a force that would
                        brook no refusal.
                    
                    "A very little sum, I am sorry to say; only a few
                        shillings," I responded.
                    She quickly withdrew her hand from mine and began to remove the baubles from
                        her ears and the brooch from her throat. Then she nervously stripped the
                        rings from her fingers and held out the little handful of jewels toward me,
                        groping for my hands.
                    "Take these, Malcolm. Take these, and wait here till I
                        return." She turned toward the staircase, but in her confusion she
                        missed it, and before I could reach her, she struck against the great newel
                        post.
                    "God pity me," she said, as I took her hand. "I
                        wish I were dead. Please lead me to the staircase, Cousin Malcolm. Thank
                        you."
                    She was weeping gently when she started up the steps, and I knew that she was
                        going to fetch me her little treasure of gold.
                    Madge held up the skirt of her gown with one hand while she grasped the
                        banister with the other. She was halfway up when Dorothy, whose generous
                        impulses needed only to be prompted, ran nimbly and was about to pass her on
                        the staircase when Madge grasped her gown.
                    "Please don't, Dorothy. Please do not. I beg you, do not
                        forestall me. Let me do this. Let me. You hav all else to make you happy.
                        Don't take this from me only because you can see and can walk
                        faster than I."
                    Dorothy did not stop, but hurried past her. Madge sank upon the steps and
                        covered her face with her hands. Then she came gropingly back to me just as
                        Dorothy returned.
                    "Take these, Cousin Malcolm," cried Dorothy. "Here
                        are a few stones of great value. They belonged to my mother."
                    Madge was sitting dejectedly upon the lowest step of  the staircase. Dorothy held her jewel-box toward me, and in the
                        midst of the diamonds and gold I saw the heart John Manners had given her. I
                        did not take the box.
                    "Do you offer me this, too—even this?" I said,
                        lifting the heart from the box by its chain.—"Yes,
                        yes," cried Dorothy, "even that, gladly, gladly."
                        I replaced it in the box.
                    Then spoke Madge, while she tried to check the falling tears:—
                    Dorothy, you are a cruel, selfish girl."
                    "Oh, Madge," cried Dorothy, stepping to her side an taking
                        her hand. "How can you speak so unkindly to me?"
                    "You have everything good," interrupted Madge.
                        "You have beauty, wealth, eyesight, and yet you would not leave to
                        me the joy of helping him. I could not see, and you hurried past me that you
                        might be first to give him the help of which I was the first to
                        think."
                    Dorothy was surprised at the outburst from Madge, and kneeled by her
                        side.
                    "We may both help Cousin Malcolm," she said.
                    "No, no," responded Madge, angrily. "Your jewels
                        are more than enough. He would have no need of my poor
                        offering."
                    I took Madge's hand and said, "I shall accept help from no
                        one but you, Madge; from no one but you."
                    "I will go to our rooms for your box," said Dorothy, who
                        had begun to see the trouble. "I will fetch it for
                        you."
                    "No, I will fetch it," answered Madge. She arose, and I led
                        her to the foot of the staircase. When she returned she held in her hands a
                        purse and a little box of jewels. These she offered to me, but I took only
                        the purse, saying: "I accept the purse. It contains more money than
                        I shall need. From its weight I should say there are twenty gold pounds
                        sterling."
                    
                    "Twenty-five," answered Madge. "I have saved them,
                        believing that the time might come when they would be of great use to me. I
                        did not know the joy I was saving for myself."
                    Tears came to my eyes, and Dorothy wept silently.
                    "Will you not take the jewels also?" asked Madge.
                    "No," I responded; "the purse will more than pay
                        my expenses to France, where I have wealthy relatives. There I may have my
                        mother's estate for the asking, and I can repay you the gold. I can
                        never repay your kindness."
                    "I hope you will never offer to repay the gold," said
                        Madge.
                    "I will not," I gladly answered.
                    "As to the kindness," she said, "you have paid me
                        in advance for that many, many times over."
                    I then said farewell, promising to send letters telling of my fortune. As I
                        was leaving I bent forward and kissed Madge upon the forehead, while she
                        gently pressed my hand, but did not speak a word.
                    "Cousin Malcolm," said Dorothy, who held my other hand,
                        "you are a strong, gentle, noble man, and I want you to say that
                        you forgive me."
                    "I do forgive you, Dorothy, from my heart. I could not blame you if
                        I wished to do so, for you did not know what you were doing."
                    "Not to know is sometimes the greatest of sins," answered
                        Dorothy. I bent forward to kiss her cheek in token of my full forgiveness,
                        but she gave me her lips and said: "I shall never again be guilty
                        of not knowing that you are good and true and noble, Cousin Malcolm, and I
                        shall never again doubt your wisdom or your good faith when you speak to
                        me." She did doubt me afterward, but I fear her doubt was with good
                        cause. I shall tell you of it in the proper place.
                    
                    Then I forced myself to leave my fair friends and went to the gateway under
                        Eagle Tower, where I found Will Dawson waiting for me with my horse.
                    "Sir George ordered me to bring your horse," said will.
                        "He seemed much excited. Has anything disagreeable happened? Are
                        you leaving us? I see you wear your steel cap and breastplate and are
                        carrying your bundle."
                    "Yes, Will, your master has quarrelled with me and I must leave his
                        house."
                    "But where do you go, Sir Malcolm? You remember that of which we
                        talked? In England no place but Haddon Hall will be safe for you, and the
                        ports are so closely guarded that you will certainly be arrested if you try
                        to sail for France."
                    "I know all that only too well, Will. But I must go, and I will try
                        to escape to France. If you wish to communicate with me, I may be found by
                        addressing a letter in care of the Duc de Guise."
                    "If I can ever be of help to you," said Will,
                        "personally, or in that other matter,—Queen Mary, you
                        understand,—you have only to call on me."
                    "I thank you, Will," I returned, "I shall probably
                        accept your kind offer sooner than you anticipate. Do you know Jennie
                        Faxton, the ferrier's daughter?"
                    "I do," he responded.
                    "I believe she may be trusted," I said.
                    "Indeed, I believe she is true as any steel in her father's
                        shop," Will responded.
                    "Good-by, Will, you may hear from me soon."
                    I mounted and rode back of the terrace, taking my way along the Wye toward
                        Rowsley. When I turned and looked back, I saw Dorothy standing upon the
                        terrace. By her side, dressed in white, stood Madge. Her hand was covering
                        her eyes. A step or two below them on the 
                        terrace staircase stood Will Dawson. They were three stanch friends,
                        although one of them had brought my troubles upon me. After all, I was
                        leaving Haddon Hall well garrisoned. My heart also was well garrisoned with
                        a faithful troop of pain. But I shall write no more of that time. It was too
                        full of bitterness.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    MINE ENEMY'S ROOF-TREE
                    
                    IRODE down the Wye to Rowsley, and by the will of my horse rather than by any
                        intention of my own took the road up through Lathkil Dale. I had determined
                        if possible to reach the city of Chester, and thence to ride down into
                        Wales, hoping to find on the rough Welsh coast a fishing boat or a
                        smuggler's craft that would carry me to France. In truth, I cared
                        little whether I went to the Tower or to France, since in either case I felt
                        that I had looked my last upon Haddon Hall, and had spoken farewell to the
                        only person in all the world for whom I really cared. My ride from Haddon
                        gave me time for deliberate thought, and I fully agreed with myself upon two
                        propositions. First, I became thoroughly conscious of my real feeling toward
                        Madge, and secondly, I was convinced that her kindness and her peculiar
                        attitude toward me when I parted from her were but the promptings of a
                        tender heart stirred by pity for my unfortunate situation, rather than what
                        I thought when I said farewell to her. The sweet Wye and the beautiful
                        Lathkil whispered to me as I rode beside their banks, but in their
                        murmurings I heard only the music of her voice. The sun shone brightly, but
                        its blessed light only served to remind me of the beautiful girl whom I had
                        left in darkness. The light were worthless to me if I could not share it
                        with her. What a mooning lout was I!
                    
                    All my life I had been a philosopher, and as I rode from Haddon, beneath all
                        my gloominess there ran a current of amusement which brought to my lips an
                        ill-formed, halfbom laugh when I thought of the plight and condition in
                        which I, by candid self-communion, found myself. Five years before that time
                        I had left France, and had cast behind me all the fair possibilities for
                        noble achievement which were offered to me in that land, that I might follw
                        the fortunes of a woman whom I thought I loved. Before my exile from her
                        side I had begun to fear that my idol was but a thing of stone; and now that
                        I had learned to know myself, and to see her as she really was, I realized
                        that I had been worshipping naught but clay for lo, these many years. There
                        was only this consolation in the thought for me: every man at some time in
                        his life is a fool—made such by a woman. It is given to but few men
                        to have for their fool-maker the rightful queen of three kingdoms. All that
                        was left to me of my life of devotion was a shame-faced pride in the quality
                        of my foolmaker. "Then," thought I, "I have at
                        last turned to be my own fool-maker." But I suppose it had been
                        written in the book of fate that I should ride from Haddon a lovelorn youth
                        of thirty-five, and I certainly was fulfilling my destiny to the letter.
                    I continued to ride up the Lathkil until I came to a fork in the road. One
                        branch led to the northwest, the other toward the southwest. I was at a loss
                        which direction to take, and I left the choice to my horse, in whose wisdom
                        and judgment I had more confidence than in my own. My horse, refusing the
                        responsibility, stopped. So there we stood like an equestrian statue arguing
                        with itself until I saw a horseman riding toward me from the direction of
                        Overhaddon. When he approached I recognized Sir John Manners. He looked as
                        woebegone as I felt, and I could not help laughing at the pair of us, for I
                        knew that his  trouble was akin to mine. The
                        pain of love is ludicrous to all save those who feel it. Even to them it is
                        laughable in others. A love-full heart has no room for that sort of charity
                        which pities for kinship's sake.
                    "What is the trouble with you, Sir John, that you look so
                        downcast?" said I, offering my hand.
                    "Ah," he answered, forcing a poor look of cheerfulness into
                        his face, "Sir Malcolm, I am glad to see you. Do I look
                        downcast?"
                    "As forlorn as a lover who has missed seeing his
                        sweetheart," I responded, guessing the cause of Sir John's
                        despondency.
                    "I have no sweetheart, therefore missing her could not have made me
                        downcast," he replied.
                    "So you really did miss her?" I queried. "She was
                        detained at Haddon Hall, Sir John, to bid me farewell."
                    "I do not understand—" began Sir John, growing
                        cold in his bearing.
                    "I understand quite well," I answered. "Dorothy
                        told me all to-day. You need keep nothing from me. The golden heart brought
                        her into trouble, and made mischief for me of which I cannot see the end. I
                        will tell you the story while we ride. I am seeking my way to Chester, that
                        I may, if possible, sail for France. This fork in the road has brought me to
                        a standstill, and my horse refuses to decide which route we shall take.
                        Perhaps you will direct us."
                    "Gladly. The road to the southwest—the one I shall
                        take—is the most direct route to Chester. But tell me, how comes it
                        that you are leaving Haddon Hall? I thought you had gone there to
                        marry—" He stopped speaking, and a smile stole into his
                        eyes.
                    "Let us ride forward together, and I will tell you about
                        it," said I.
                    While we travelled I told Sir John the circumstances of my departure from
                        Haddon Hall, concealing nothing save  that
                        which touched Madge Stanley. I then spoke of my dangerous position in
                        England, and told him of my great desire to reach my mother's
                        people in France.
                    "You will find difficulty and danger in escaping to France at this
                        time," said Sir John, "the guard at the ports is very
                        strong and strict, and your greatest risk will be at the moment when you try
                        to embark without a passport."
                    "That is true," I responded; "but I know of
                        nothing else that I can do."
                    "Come with me to Rutland Castle," said Sir John.
                    "You may there find refuge until such time as you can go to France.
                        I will gladly furnish you money which you may repay at your pleasure, and I
                        may soon be able to procure a passport for you."
                    I thanked him, but said I did not see my way clear to accept his kind
                        offer.
                    "You are unknown in the neighborhood of Rutland," he
                        continued, "and you may easily remain incognito."
                    Although his offer was greatly to my liking, I suggested several objections,
                        chief among which was the distaste Lord Rutland might feel toward one of my
                        name. I would not, of course, consent that my identity should be concealed
                        from him. But to be brief—an almost impossible achievement for me,
                        it seems—Sir John assured me of his father's welcome, and
                        it was arranged between us that I should take my baptismal name, François de
                        Lorraine, and passing for a French gentleman on a visit to England, should
                        go to Rutland with my friend. So it happened through the strange workings of
                        fate that I found help and refuge under my enemy's roof-tree.
                    Kind old Lord Rutland welcomed me, as his son had foretold, and I was
                        convinced ere I had passed an hour under his roof that the feud between him
                        and Sir George was of the latter's brewing.
                    The happenings in Haddon Hall while I lived at Rutland  I knew, of course, only by the mouth of others; but for
                        convenience in telling I shall speak of them as if I had seen and heard all
                        that took place. I may now say once for all that I shall take that liberty
                        throughout this entire history.
                    On the morning of the day after my departure from Haddon, Jennie Facton went
                        to visit Dorothy and gave her a piece of information, small in itself, but
                        large in its effect upon that ardent young lady. Will Fletcher, the
                        arrow-maker at Overhaddon, had observed Dorothy's movements in
                        connection with Manners; and although Fletcher did not know who Sir John
                        was, that fact added to his curiosity and righteous indignation.
                    "It do be right that some one should tell the King of the Peak as
                        how his daughter is carrying on with a young man who does come here every
                        day or two to meet her, and I do intend to tell Sir George if she put not a
                        stop to it," said Fletcher to some of his gossips in Yulegrave
                        churchyard one Sunday afternoon.
                    Dorothy notified John, Jennie being the messenger, of Will's
                        observations, visual and verbal, and designated another place for
                        meeting,—the gate east of Bowling Green Hill. This gate was part of
                        a wall on the east side of the Haddon estates adjoining the lands of the
                        house of Devonshire which lay to the eastward. It was a secluded spot in the
                        heart of the forest half a mile distant from Haddon Hall.
                    Sir George, for a fortnight or more after my disappearance, enforced his
                        decree of imprisnment against Dorothy, and she, being unable to leave the
                        Hall, could not go to Bowling Green Gate to meet Sir John. Before I had
                        learned of the new trysting-place John had ridden thither several evenings
                        to meet Dorothy, but had found only Jennie bearing her mistress's
                        excuses. I supposed his journeyings had been to Overhaddon; but I did not
                        press his confidence, nor did he give it.
                    
                    Sir George's treatment of Dorothy had taught her that the citadel of
                        her father's wrath could be stormed only by gentleness, and an
                        opportunity was soon presented in which she used that effective engine of
                        feminine warfare to her great advantage.
                    As I have told you, Sir George was very rich. No man, either noble or gentle,
                        in Derbyshire or in any of the adjoining counties, possessed so great an
                        estate or so beautiful a hall as did he. In France we would have called
                        Haddon Hall a grand château.
                    Sir George's deceased wife had been a sister to the Earl of Derby,
                        who lived at the time of which I am now writing. The earl had a son, James,
                        who was heir to the title and to the estates of his father. The son was a
                        dissipated, rustic clown—almost a simpleton. He had the vulgarity
                        of a stable boy and the vices of a courtier. His associates were chosen from
                        the ranks of gamesters, ruffians, and tavern maids. Still, he was a scion of
                        one of the greatest families of England's nobility.
                    After Sir George's trouble with Dorothy, growing out of his desire
                        that I should wed her, the King of the Peak, had begun to feel that in his
                        beautiful daughter he had upon his hands a commodity that might at any time
                        cause him trouble. He therefore determined to marry her to some eligible
                        gentleman as quickly as possible, and to place the heavy responsibility of
                        managing her in the hands of a husband. The stubborn violence of Sir
                        George's nature, the rough side of which had never before been
                        shown to Dorothy, in her became adroit wilfulness of a quality that no
                        masculine mind may compass. But her life had been so entirely undisturbed by
                        opposing influences that her father, firm in the belief that no one in his
                        household would dare to thwart his will, had remained in dangerous ignorance
                        of the latent trouble which pervaded his daughter from the soles of her
                        shapely feet to the top of her glory-crowned head.
                    
                    Sir George, in casting about for a son-in-law, had hit upon the heir to the
                        house of Derby as a suitable match for his child, and had entered into an
                        alliance offensive and defensive with the earl against the common enemy,
                        Dorothy. The two fathers had partly agreed that the heir to Derby should wed
                        the heiress of Haddon. The heir, although he had never seen his cousin
                        except when she was a plain, unattractive girl, was entirely willing for the
                        match, but the heiress—well, she had not been consulted, and
                        everybody connected with the affair instinctively knew there would be
                        trouble in that quarter. Sir George, however, had determined that Dorothy
                        should do her part in case the contract of marriage should be agreed upon
                        between the heads of the houses. He had fully resolved to assert the majesty
                        of the law vested in him as a father and to compel Dorothy to do his
                        bidding, if there were efficacy in force and chastisement. At the time when
                        Sir George spoke to Dorothy about the Derby marriage, she had been a
                        prisoner for a fortnight or more, and had learned that her only hope against
                        her father lay in cunning. So she wept, and begged for time in which to
                        consider the answer she would give to Lord Derby's request. She
                        begged for two months, or even one month, in which to bring herself to
                        accede to her father's commands.
                    "You have always been so kind and good to me, father, that I shall
                        try to obey if you and the earl eventually agree upon terms," she
                        said tearfully, having no intention whatever of trying to do anything but
                        disobey.
                    "Try!" stormed Sir George. "Try to obey me! By
                        God, girl, I say you shall obey!"
                    "Oh, father, I am so young. I have not seen my cousin for years. I
                        do not want to leave you, and I have never thought twice of any man. Do not
                        drive me from you."
                    Sir George, eager to crush in the outset any disposition  to oppose his will, grew violent and threatened his daughter
                        with dire punishment if she were not docile and obedient.
                    Then said rare Dorothy:—
                    "It would indeed be a great match." Greater than ever will
                        happen, she thought. "I should be a countess." She
                        strutted across the room with head up and with dilating nostrils. The truth
                        was, she desired to gain her liberty once more that she might go to John,
                        and was ready to promise anything to achieve that end. "What sort
                        of a countess would I make, father?"
                    "A glorious countess, Doll, a glorious countess," said her
                        father, laughing. "You are a good girl to obey me so
                        readily."
                    "Oh, but I have not obeyed you yet," returned Dorothy,
                        fearing that her father might be suspicious of a too ready acquiescence.
                    "But you will obey me," answered Sir George, half in
                        command and half in entreaty.
                    "There are not many girls who would refuse the coronet of a
                        countess." She then seated herself upon her father's knee
                        and kissed him, while Sir George laughed softly over his easy victory.
                    Blessed is the man who does not know when he is beaten.
                    Seeing her father's kindly humor, Dorothy said:—
                    "Father, do you still wish me to remain a prisoner in my
                        rooms?"
                    "If you promise to be a good, obedient daughter," returned
                        Sir George, "you shall have your liberty."
                    "I have always been that, father, and I am too old to learn
                        otherwise," answered this girl, whose father had taught her
                        deception by his violence. You may drive men, but you cannot drive any woman
                        who is worth possessing. You may for a time think you drive her, but in the
                        end she will have her way.
                    
                    Dorothy's first act of obedience after regaining liberty was to send
                        a letter to Manners by the hand of Jennie Faxton.
                    John received the letter in the evening, and all next day he passed the time
                        whistling, singing, and looking now and again at his horologue. He walked
                        about the castle like a happy wolf in a pen. He did not tell me there was a
                        project on foot, with Dorothy as the objective, but I knew it, and waited
                        with some impatience for the outcome.
                    Long before the appointed time, which was sunset, John galloped forth for
                        Bowling Green Gate with joy and anticipation in his heart and pain in his
                        conscience. As he rode, he resolved again and again that the interview
                        toward which he was hastening should be the last he would have with Dorothy.
                        But when he pictured the girl to himself, and thought upon her marvellous
                        beauty and infinite winsomeness, his conscience was drowned in his longing,
                        and he resolved that he would postpone resolving until the morrow.
                    John hitched his horse near the gate and stood looking between the massive
                        iron bars toward Haddon Hall, whose turrets could be seen through the
                        leafless boughs of the trees. The sun was sinking perilously low, thought
                        John, and with each moment his heart also sank, while his good resolutions
                        showed the flimsy fibre of their fabric and were rent asunder by the fear
                        that she might not come. As the moments dragged on and she did not come, a
                        hundred alarms tormented him. First among these was a dread that she might
                        have made resolves such as had sprung up so plenteously in him, and that she
                        might have been strong enough to act upon them and to remain at home. But he
                        was mistaken in the girl. Such resolutions as he had been making and
                        breaking had never come to her at all. The difference between the man and
                        the woman was this: he resolved in his mind not to see her and failed in
                        keeping to  his resolution; while she resolved
                        in her heart to see him—resolved that nothing in heaven or earth or
                        the other place could keep her from seeing him, and succeeded in carrying
                        out her resolution. The intuitive resolve, the one that does not know it is
                        a resolution, is the sort before which obstacles fall like corn before the
                        sickle.
                    After John had waited a weary time, the form of the girl appeared above the
                        crest of the hill. She was holding up the skirt of her gown, and glided over
                        the earth so rapidly that she appeared to be running. Beat! beat! oh, heart
                        of John, if there is aught in womanhood to make you throb; if there is aught
                        in infinite grace and winsomeness; if there is aught in perfect harmony of
                        color and form and movement; if there is aught of beauty, in God's
                        power to create that can set you pulsing, beat! for the fairest creature of
                        His hand is hastening to greet you. The wind had dishevelled her hair and it
                        was blowing in fluffy curls of golden red about her face. Her cheeks were
                        slightly flushed with joy and exercise, her red lips were parted, and her
                        eyes—but I am wasting words. As for John's heart it almost
                        smothered him with its beating. He had never before supposed that he could
                        experience such violent throbbing within his breast and live. But at last
                        she was at the gate, in all her exquisite beauty and winsomeness, and
                        something must be done to make the heart conform to the usages of good
                        society. She, too, was in trouble with her breathing, but John thought that
                        her trouble was owing to exertion. However that may have been, nothing in
                        heaven or earth was ever so beautiful, so rediant, so graceful, or so fair
                        as this girl who had come to give herself to John. It seems that I cannot
                        take myself away from the attractive theme.
                    "Ah, Sir John, you did come," said the girl, joyously.
                    "Yes," John succeeded in replying, after an effort,
                        "and you—I thank you, gracious lady, for coming. I do not
                             deserve—"the heart
                        again asserted itself, and Dorothy stood by the gate with downcast eyes,
                        waiting to learn what it was that John did not deserve. She thought he
                        deserved everything good.
                    "I fear I have caused you fatigue," said John, again
                        thinking, and with good reason, that he was a fool.
                    The English language, which he had always supposed to be his mother tongue,
                        had deserted him as if it were his step-mother. After all, the difficulty,
                        as John subsequently said, was that Dorothy's beauty had deprived
                        him of the power to think. He could only see. He was entirely disorganized
                        by a girl whom he could have carried away in his arms.
                    "I feel no fatigue," replied Dorothy.
                    "I feared that in climbing the hill you had lost your
                        breath," answered disorganized John.
                    "So I did," she returned. Then she gave a great sigh and
                        said, "Now I am all right again."
                    All right? So is the morning sun, so is the arching rainbow, and so are the
                        flitting lights of the north in midwinter. All are "all
                        right" because God made them, as He made Dorothy, perfect, each
                        after its kind.
                    A long, uneasy pause ensued. Dorothy felt the embarrassing silence less than
                        John, and could have helped him greatly had she wished to do so. But she had
                        made the advances at their former meetings, and as she had told me, she
                        "had done a great deal more than her part in going to meet
                        him." Therefore she determined that he should do his own wooing
                        thenceforward. She had graciously given him all the opportunity he had any
                        right to ask.
                    While journeying to Bowling Green Gate, John had formulated many true and
                        beautiful sentiments of a personal nature which he intended expressing to
                        Dorothy; but when the opportunity came for him to speak, the weather, his
                        horse, Dorothy's mare Dolcy, the queens of England and  Scotland were the only subjects on which he
                        could induce his tongue to perform, even moderately well.
                    Dorothy listened attentively while John on the opposite side of the gate
                        discoursed limpingly on the above-named themes; and although in former
                        interviews she had found those topics quite interesting, upon that occasion
                        she had come to Bowling Green Gate to listen to something else and was
                        piqued not to hear it. After ten or fifteen minutes she said
                        demurely:—
                    "I may not remain here longer. I shall be missed at the Hall. I
                        regained my liberty but yesterday, and father will be suspicious of me
                        during the next few days. I must be watchful and must have a care of my
                        behavior."
                    John summoned his wits and might have spoken his mind freely had he not
                        feared to say too much. Despite Dorothy's witchery, honor,
                        conscience, and prudence still bore weight with him, and they all dictated
                        that he should cling to the shreds of his resolution and not allow matters
                        to go too far between him and this fascinating girl. He was much in love
                        with her; but Dorothy had reached at a bound a height to which he was still
                        climbing. Soon John, also, was to reach the pinnacle whence honor,
                        conscience, and prudence were to be banished.
                    "I fear I must now leave you," said Dorothy, as darkness
                        began to gather.
                    "I hope I may soon see you again," said John.
                    "Sometime I will see you if—if I can," she
                        answered with downcast eyes. "It is seldom I can leave the Hall
                        alone, but I shall try to come here at sunset some future day."
                        John's silence upon a certain theme had given offence.
                    "I cannot tell you how greatly I thank you," cried
                        John.
                    "I will say adieu," said Dorothy, as she offered him her
                        hand through the bars of the gate. John raised the hand gallantly to his
                        lips, and when she had withdrawn it there 
                        seemed no reason for her to remain. But she stood for a moment hesitatingly.
                        Then she stooped to reach into her pocket while she daintily lifted the
                        skirt of her gown with the other hand and from the pocket drew forth a great
                        iron key.
                    "I brought this key, thinking that you might wish to unlock the
                        gate—and come to—to this side. I had great difficulty in
                        taking it from the forester's closet, where it has been hanging for
                        a hundred years or more."
                    She showed John the key, returned it to her pocket, made a courtesy, and
                        moved slowly away, walking backward.
                    "Mistress Vernon," cried John, "I beg you to let
                        me have the key."
                    "It is too late, now," said the girl, with downcast
                        eyes.
                    "Darkness is rapidly falling, and I must return to the
                        Hall."
                    John began to climb the gate, but she stopped him. He had thrown away his
                        opportunity.
                    "Please do not follow me, Sir John," said she, still moving
                        backward. "I must not remain longer."
                    "Only for one moment," pleaded John.
                    "No," the girl responded, "I—I may,
                        perhaps, bring the key when I come again. I am glad, Sir John, that you came
                        to meet me this evening." She courtesied, and then hurried away
                        toward Haddon Hall. Twice she looked backward and waved her hand, and John
                        stood watching her through the bars till her form was lost to view beneath
                        the crest of Bowling Green Hill.
                    "'I brought this key, thinking that you might wish to
                        unlock the gate and come to this side,'" muttered John,
                        quoting the girl's words. "Compared with you, John
                        Manners, there is no other fool in this world." Then meditatively:
                        "I wonder if she feels toward me as I feel toward her? Surely she
                        does. What other reason could bring her here to meet me unless she is a
                        brazen, wanton creature who is for every man." Then came a jealous
                             thought that hurt him like the piercing
                        of a knife. It lasted but a moment, however, and he continued muttering to
                        himself: "If she loves me and will be my wife, I will—I
                        will. . . . In God's name what will I do? If I were to marry her,
                        old Vernon would kill her, and I—I should kill my
                        father."
                    Then John mounted his horse and rode homeward the unhappiest happy man in
                        England. He had made perilous strides toward that pinnacle sans honor, sans
                        caution, sans conscience, sans everything but love.
                    That evening while we were walking on the battlements, smoking, John told me
                        of his interview with Dorothy and extolled her beauty, grace, and
                        winsomeness which, in truth, as you know, were matchless. But when he spoke
                        of "her sweet, shy modesty," I came near to laughing in
                        his face.
                    "Did she not write a letter asking you to meet her?" I
                        asked.
                    "Why—y-e-s," returned John.
                    "And," I continued, "has she not from the first
                        sought you?"
                    "It almost seems to be so," answered John, "but
                        notwithstanding the fact that one might say—might
                        call—that one might feel that her conduct is—that it might
                        be—you know, well—it might be called by some persons not
                        knowing all the facts in the case, immodest—I hate to use the word
                        with reference to her—yet it does not appear to me to have been at
                        all immodest in Mistress Vernon, and, Sir Malcolm, I should be deeply
                        offended were any of my friends to intimate—"
                    "Now, John," I returned, laughing at him, "you
                        could not, if you wished, make me quarrel with you; and if you desire it, I
                        will freely avow my firm belief in the fact that my cousin Dorothy is the
                        flower of modesty. Does that better suit you?"
                    
                    I could easily see that my bantering words did not suit him at all; but I
                        laughed at him, and he could not find it in his heart to show his
                        ill-feeling.
                    "I will not quarrel with you," he returned; "but
                        in plain words, I do not like the tone in which you speak of her. It hurts
                        me, and I do not believe you would wilfully give me pain."
                    "Indeed, I would not," I answered seriously.
                    "Mistress Vernon's conduct toward me," John
                        continued, "has been gracious. There has been no immodesty nor
                        boldness in it."
                    I laughed again and said: "I make my humble apologies to her
                        Majesty, Queen Dorothy. But in all earnestness, Sir John, you are right:
                        Dorothy is modest and pure. As for her conduct toward you, there is a royal
                        quality about beauty such as my cousin possesses which gives an air of
                        graciousness to acts that in a plainer girl would seem bold. Beauty, like
                        royalty, has its own prerogatives."
                    For a fortnight after the adventures just related, John, in pursuance of his
                        oft-repeated resolution not to see Dorothy, rode every evening to Bowling
                        Green Gate; but during that time he failed to see her, and the resolutions,
                        with each failure, became weaker and fewer.
                    One evening, after many disappointments, John came to my room bearing in his
                        hands a letter which he said Jennie Faxton had delivered to him at Bowling
                        Green Gate.
                    "Mistress Vernon," said John, "and Lady Madge
                        Stanley will ride to Derby-town to-morrow. They will go in the Haddon Hall
                        coach, and Dawson will drive. Mistress Vernon writes to me
                        thus:—
                    "'TO SIR JOHN MANNERS:—
                    "'My good wishes and my kind greeting. Lady Madge Stanley,
                        my good aunt, Lady Crawford, and myself do intend journeying to Derby-town
                        to-morrow. My aunt,  Lady Crawford, is
                        slightly ill, and although I should much regret to see her sickness grow
                        greater, yet if ill she must be, I do hope that her worst day will be upon
                        the morrow, in which case she could not accompany Lady Madge and me. I shall
                        nurse my good aunt carefully this day, and shall importune her to take
                        plentifully of physic that she may quickly recover her health—after
                        to-morrow. Should a gentleman ask of Will Dawson, who will be in the taproom
                        of the Royal Arms at eleven o'clock of the morning, Dawson will be
                        glad to inform the gentleman concerning Lady Crawford's health. Let
                        us hope that the physic will cure Lady Crawford—by the day after
                        to-morrow at furthest. The said Will Dawson may be trusted. With great
                        respect.
                    DOROTHY VERNON.'"
                    "I suppose the gentleman will be solicitous concerning Lady
                        Crawford's health to-morrow morning at eleven
                        o'clock," said I.
                    "The gentleman is now solicitous concerning Lady Crawford's
                        health," answered John, laughingly. "Was there ever a lady
                        more fair and gracious than Mistress Vernon?"
                    I smiled with a superior air at John's weakness, being, as you know,
                        entirely free from his complaint myself, and John continued:—
                    "Perhaps you would call Mistress Dorothy bold for sending me this
                        letter?"
                    "It is redolent with shyness," I answered. "But
                        would you really wish poor Lady Crawford to be ill that you might witness
                        Mistress Dorothy's modesty?"
                    "Please don't jest on that subject," said John,
                        seriously. "I would wish anything, I fear, that would bring me an
                        opportunity to see her, to look upon her face, and to hear her voice. For
                        her I believe I would sacrifice every one who is dear to me. One day she
                        shall be mine—mine  at whatever
                        cost—if she will be. If she will be. Ah, there is the rub! If she
                        will be. I dare not hope for that."
                    "I think," said I, "that you really have some
                        little cause to hope."
                    "You speak in the same tone again. Malcolm, you do not understand
                        her. She might love me to the extent that I sometimes hope; but her father
                        and mine would never consent to our union, and she, I fear, could not be
                        induced to marry me under those conditions. Do not put the hope into my
                        heart."
                    "You only now said she should be yours some day," I
                        answered.
                    "So she shall," returned John, "so she
                        shall."
                    "But Lady Madge is to be with her to-morrow," said I, my
                        own heart beating with an ardent wish and a new-born hope, "and you
                        may be unable, after all, to see Mistress Dorothy."
                    "That is true," replied John. "I do not know how
                        she will arrange matters, but I have faith in her ingenuity.
                    Well might he have faith, for Dorothy was possessed of that sort of a will
                        which usually finds a way.
                    "If you wish me to go with you to Derby-town, I will do so. Perhaps
                        I may be able to entertain Lady Madge while you have a word with Dorothy.
                        What think you of the plan?" I asked.
                    "If you will go with me, Malcolm, I shall thank you with all my
                        heart."
                    And so it was agreed between us that we should both go to Derby-town for the
                        purpose of inquiring about Lady Crawford's health, though for me
                        the expedition was full of hazard.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    A DANGEROUS TRIP TO
                            DERBY-TOWN
                    
                    THE next morning broke brightly, but soon clouds began to gather and a storm
                        seemed imminent. We feared that the gloomy prospect of the sky might keep
                        Dorothy and Madge at home, but long before the appointed hour John and I
                        were at the Royal Arms watching eagerly for the Haddon coach. At the inn we
                        occupied a room from which we could look into the courtyard, and at the
                        window we stood alternating between exaltation and despair.
                    When my cogitations turned upon myself—a palpitating youth of
                        thirty-five, waiting with beating heart for a simple blind girl little more
                        than half my age; and when I remembered how for years I had laughed at the
                        tenderness of the fairest women of the French and Scottish courts—I
                        could not help saying to myself, "Poor fool! you have achieved an
                        early second childhood." But when I recalled Madge in all her
                        beauty, purity, and helplessness, my cynicism left me, and I, who had
                        enjoyed all of life's ambitious possibilities, calmly reached the
                        conclusion that it is sometimes a blessed privilege to be a fool. While I
                        dwelt on thoughts of Madge, all the latent good within me came uppermost.
                        There is latent good in every man, though it may remain latent all his life.
                        Good resolves, pure thoughts, and noble aspirations—new sensations
                        to me, I blush to confess—bubbled  in
                        my heart, and I made a mental prayer, "If this is folly, may God
                        banish wisdom." What is there, after all is said, in wisdom, that
                        men should seek it? Has it ever brought happiness to its possessor? I am an
                        old man at this writing. I have tasted all the cups of life, and from the
                        fulness of my experience I tell you that the simple life is the only one
                        wherein happiness is found. When you permit your heart and your mind to grow
                        complex and wise, you make nooks and crannies for wretchedness to lodge in.
                        Innocence is Nature's wisdom; knowledge is man's
                        folly.
                    An hour before noon our patience was rewarded when we saw the Haddon Hall
                        coach drive into the courtyard with Dawson on the box. I tried to make
                        myself believe that I did not wish Lady Crawford were ill. But there is
                        little profit in too close scrutiny of our deep-seated motives, and in this
                        case I found no comfort in self-examination. I really did wish that Aunt
                        Dorothy were ill.
                    My motive studying, however, was brought to a joyous end when I saw Will
                        Dawson close the coach door after Madge and Dorothy had alighted.
                    How wondrously beautiful they were! Had we lived in the days when Olympus
                        ruled the world, John surely would have had a god for his rival. Dorothy
                        seemed luminous, so radiant was she with the fire of life. As for Madge, had
                        I beheld a corona hovering over her head I should have thought it in all
                        respects a natural and appropriate phenomenon—so fair and saintlike
                        did she appear to me. Her warm white furs and her clinging gown of soft
                        light-colored woollen stuff seemed to be a saint's robe, and her
                        dainty little hat, fashioned with ermine about the edge of the
                        rim—well, that was the corona, and I was ready to worship.
                    Dorothy, as befitted her, wore a blaze of harmonious colors and looked like
                        the spirit of life and youth. I wish  I could
                        cease rhapsodizing over those two girls, but I cannot. You may pass over it
                        as you read, if you do not like it.
                    "Ye gods! did ever a creature so perfect as she tread the
                        earth?" asked John, meaning, of course, Dorothy.
                    "No," answered I, meaning, of course, Madge.
                    The girls entered the inn, and John and I descended to the tap-room for the
                        purpose of consulting Will Dawson concerning the state of Aunt
                        Dorothy's health.
                    When we entered the tap-room Will was standing near the fireplace with a mug
                        of hot punch in his hand. When I touched him, he almost dropped the mug so
                        great was his surprise at seeing me.
                    "Sir Mal—" he began to say, but I stopped him by a
                        gesture. He instantly recovered his composure and appeared not to recognize
                        me.
                    I spoke in broken English, for, as you know, I belong more to France than to
                        any other country. "I am Sir François de Lorraine," said
                        I. "I wish to inquire if Lady Crawford is in good
                        health?"
                    "Her ladyship is ill, sir, I am sorry to say," responded
                        Will, taking off his hat. "Mistress Vernon and Lady Madge Stanley
                        are at the inn. If you wish to inquire more particularly concerning Lady
                        Crawford's health, I will ask them if they wish to receive you.
                        They are in the parlor."
                    Will was the king of trumps!
                    "Say to them," said I, "that Sir François de
                        Lorraine—mark the name carefully, please—and his friend
                        desire to make inquiry concerning Lady Crawford's health, and would
                        deem it a great honor should the ladies grant them an
                        interview."
                    Will's countenance was as expressionless as the face upon the mug
                        from which he had been drinking.
                    "I shall inform the ladies of your honor's
                        request."  He thereupon placed the
                        half-emptied mug upon the fire-shelf and left the room.
                    When Will announced his errand to the girls, Dorothy said in
                        surprise:—
                    "Sir François de Lorraine? That is the name of the Grand Due de
                        Guise, but surely—Describe him to me, Will."
                    "He is about your height, Mistress Dorothy, and is very
                        handsome," responded Will.
                    The latter part of Will's description placed me under obligation to
                        him to the extent of a gold pound sterling.
                    "Ah, it is John!" thought Dorothy, forgetting the fact that
                        John was a great deal taller than she, but feeling that Will's
                        description of "very handsome" could apply to only one man
                        in the world. "He has taken Malcolm's name." Then
                        she said, "Bring him to us, Will. But who is the friend? Do you
                        know him? Tell me his appearance."
                    "I did not notice the other gentleman," replied Will,
                        "and I can tell you nothing of him."
                    "Will, you are a very stupid man. But bring the gentlemen
                        here." Dorothy had taken Will into her confidence to the extent of
                        telling him that a gentleman would arrive at the Royal Arms who would
                        inquire for Lady Crawford's health, and that she, Dorothy, would
                        fully inform the gentleman upon that interesting topic. Will may have had
                        suspicions of his own, but if so, he kept them to himself, and at least did
                        not know that the gentleman whom his mistress expected to see was Sir John
                        Manners. Neither did he suspect that fact. Dawson had never seen Manners,
                        and did not know he was in the neighborhood of Derby. The fact was concealed
                        from Dawson by Dorothy not so much because she doubted him, but for the
                        reason that she wished him to be able truthfully to plead innocence in case
                        trouble should grow out of the Derby-town escapade.
                    
                    "I wonder why John did not come alone?" thought Dorothy.
                        "This friend of his will be a great hindrance."
                    Dorothy ran to the mirror and hurriedly gave a few touches to her hair,
                        pressing it lightly with her soft flexible fingers here, and tucking in a
                        stray curl there, which for beauty's sake should have been allowed
                        to hang loose. She was standing at the pier-glass trying to see the back of
                        her head when Will knocked to announce our arrival.
                    "Come," said Dorothy.
                    Will opened the door and held it for us to pass in. Madge was seated near the
                        fire. When we entered Dorothy was standing with great dignity in the centre
                        of the floor, not of course intending to make an exhibition of delight over
                        John in the presence of a stranger. But when she saw that I was the
                        stranger, she ran to me with outstretched hands.
                    "Good morning, Mistress Vernon," said I, in mock
                        ceremoniousness.
                    "Oh, Malcolm! Malcolm!" cried Madge, quickly rising from
                        her chair. "You are cruel, Dorothy, to surprise me in this
                        fashion."
                    "I, too, am surprised. I did not know that Malcolm was
                        coming," replied Dorothy, turning to give welcome to John. Then I
                        stepped to Madge's side and took her hands, but all I could say was
                        "Madge! Madge!" and all she said was "Malcolm!
                        Malcolm!" yet we seemed to understand each other.
                    John and Dorothy were likewise stricken with a paucity of words, but they
                        also doubtless understood each other. After a moment or two there fell upon
                        me a shower of questions from Dorothy.
                    "Did you not go to France? How happens it that you are in
                        Derby-town? Where did you meet Sir John? What a delightful surprise you have
                        given us! Nothing was wanting to make us happy but your
                        presence."
                    
                    "I am so happy that it frightens me," said Dorothy in
                        ecstasy. "Trouble will come, I am sure. One extreme always follows
                        another. The pendulum always swings as far back as it goes forward. But we
                        are happy now, aren't we, Madge? I intend to remain so while I can.
                        The pendulum may swing as far backward as it chooses hereafter. Sufficient
                        to the day is the evil thereof. Sometimes the joy is almost sufficient,
                        isn't it, Madge?"
                    "The evil is more than sufficient some days," answered
                        Madge.
                    "Come, Madge, don't be foreboding."
                    "Dorothy, I have not met the other gentleman," said
                        Madge.
                    "Ah, pardon me. In my surprise I forgot to present you. Lady Madge
                        Stanley, let me present Sir John Manners."
                    "Sir John Manners!" cried Madge, taking a step backward.
                        Her surprise was so great that she forgot to acknowledge the introduction.
                        "Dorothy, what means this?" she continued.
                    "It means," replied Dorothy, nervously, "that Sir
                        John is my very dear friend. I will explain it to you at another
                        time."
                    We stood silently for a few moments, and John said:—
                    "I hope I may find favor in your heart, Lady Madge. I wish to greet
                        you with my sincere homage."
                    "Sir John, I am glad to greet you, but I fear the pendulum of which
                        Dorothy spoke will swing very far backward erelong."
                    "Let it swing as far back as it chooses," answered Dorothy,
                        with a toss of her head, "I am ready to buy and to pay for
                        happiness. That seems to be the only means whereby we may have it. I am
                        ready to buy it with pain any day, and am willing to pay upon demand. Pain
                        passes away; joy lasts forever."
                    
                    "I know," said Sir John, addressing Madge, "I know
                        it is not prudent for Malcolm and me to be here to-day; but imprudent things
                        seem to be the most delightful."
                    "For men, Sir John," returned Madge. "Upon women
                        they leave their mark."
                    "I fear you are right," he answered. "I had not
                        thought of my visit in that light. For Mistress Vernon's sake it is
                        better that I do not remain in Derby."
                    "For Mistress Vernon's sake you shall remain,"
                        cried that impetuous young woman, clutching John's arm.
                    After a time, Dorothy wishing to visit one of the shops to make purchases, it
                        was agreed between us that we should all walk out. Neither Dorothy nor Madge
                        had ever before visited Derby-town. John and I had visited the place but
                        once; that was upon the occasion of our first meeting. No one in the town
                        knew us, and we felt safe in venturing forth into the streets. So we helped
                        Dorothy and Madge to don their furs, and out we went happier and more
                        reckless than four people have any good right to be. But before setting out
                        I went to the tap-room and ordered dinner.
                    I found the host and directed him to prepare a dozen partridges in a pie, a
                        haunch of venison, a few links of German sausage, and a capon. The host
                        informed me that he had in his pantry a barrel of roots called potatoes
                        which had been sent to him by a sea-captain who had recently returned from
                        the new world. He hurried away and brought a potato for inspection. It was
                        of a gray brown color and near the size of an egg. The landlord assured me
                        that it was delicious when baked, and I ordered four, at the cost of a crown
                        each. I understand that my Lord Raleigh claims to have brought the first
                        potatoes and tobacco into England in '85; but I know that I smoked
                        tobacco in '66, and I saw potatoes at the Royal Arms in Derby-town
                        in '67. I also ordered another new dish for our famous dinner. It
                        was a brown beverage called coffee.  The
                        berries from which the beverage is made mine host showed to me, and said
                        they had been brought to him by a sea-faring man from Arabia. I ordered a
                        pot of the drink at a cost of three crowns. I have heard it said that coffee
                        was not known in Europe or in England till it was introduced by Rawolf in
                        '73, but I saw it at the Royal Arms in '67. In addition to
                        this list, I ordered for our drinking sweet wine from Madeira and red wine
                        from Burgundy. The latter-named wine had begun to grow in favor at the
                        French court when I left France five years before. It was little liked in
                        England. All these dainties were rare at the time of which I write; but they
                        have since grown into considerable use, and I doubt not, as we progress in
                        luxury, they will become common articles of food upon the tables of the
                        rich. Prongs, or forks, as they are called, which by some are used in
                        cutting and eating one's food at table, I also predict will become
                        implements of daily use. It is really a filthy fashion, which we have, of
                        handling food with our fingers. The Italians have used forks for some time,
                        but our preachers speak against them, saying God has given us our fingers
                        with which to eat, and that it is impious to thwart his purposes by the use
                        of forks. The preachers will probably retard the general use of forks among
                        the common people.
                    After I had given my order for dinner we started out on our ramble through
                        Derby-town.
                    Shortly after we left the inn we divided into couples for the ostensible
                        reason that we did not wish to attract too much attention—Dorothy
                        and John, Madge and I! Our real reason for separating was—but you
                        understand.
                    Madge's hand lay like a span of snow upon my arm, and—but
                        this time I will restrain my tendency to rhapsodize.
                    We walked out through those parts of the town which were little used, and
                        Madge talked freely and happily.  She fairly
                        babbled, and to me her voice was like the murmurings of the rivers that
                        flowed out of paradise.
                    We had agreed with John and Dorothy to meet them at the Royal Arms in one
                        hour, and that time had almost passed when Madge and I turned our faces
                        toward the inn.
                    When we were within a short distance of our hostelry we saw a crowd gathered
                        around a young man who was standing on a box. He was speaking in a mournful,
                        lugubrious voice and accompanied his words with violent gesticulations. Out
                        of curiosity we stopped to listen, and learned that religion was our
                        orator's theme.
                    I turned to a man standing near me and asked:—
                    "Who is the fellow speaking?"
                    "The pious man is Robert Brown. He is exhorting in the name of the
                        Lord of Hosts."
                    "The pious Robert Brown?" I queried, "exhorting in
                        in the name of—of the Lord of where, did you say?"
                    "Hosts," laconically responded my friend, while listening
                        intently to the words of Brown.
                    "Hosts, say you? Who is he?" I asked of my interesting
                        neighbor. "I know him not."
                    "Doubtless you know Him not," responded the man, evidently
                        annoyed at my interruption and my flippancy.
                    After a moment or two I, desiring to know more concerning the orator,
                        asked:—
                    "Robert Brown, say you?"
                    "Even he," came the response. "It will be good for
                        your soul if you but listen to him in a prayerful mood. He is a young man
                        upon whom the Spirit hath descended plenteously."
                    "The Spirit?" I asked.
                    "Ay," returned my neighbor.
                    I could not extract another word from him, so I had the worst of the
                        encounter.
                    
                    We had been standing there but a short time when the young exhorter descended
                        from his improvised pulpit and passed among the crowd for the purpose of
                        collecting money. His harangue had appeared ridiculous to me, but Madge
                        seemed interested in his discourse. She said:—
                    "He is very earnest, Malcolm," and at once my heart went
                        out to the young enthusiast upon the box. One kind word from Madge, and I
                        was the fellow's friend for life. I would have remained his friend
                        had he permitted me that high privilege. But that he would not do. When he
                        came to me, I dropped into his hat a small silver piece which shone brightly
                        among a few black copper coins. My liberal contribution did not induce him
                        to kindness, but, on the contrary, it attracted his attention to the giver.
                        He looked at the silver coin, and then turning his solemn gaze upon me, eyed
                        me insolently from head to foot. While doing so a look of profound disgust
                        spread over his mournful countenance. After a clam survey of my person,
                        which to me was uncomfortably long, he turned to the bystanders, and in the
                        same high-pitched, lugubrious voice which he had used when exhorting,
                        said:—
                    "Brethren, here behold ye the type of anti-Christ," and he
                        waved his thin hand toward me much to my amusement and annoyance.
                        "Here," said he, "we find the leading strings to
                        all that is iniquitous—vanity. It is betokened in his velvets,
                        satins, and laces. Think ye, young man," he said, turning to me,
                        "that such vanities are not an abomination in the eyes of the God
                        of Israel?"
                    "I believe that the God of Israel cares nothing about my
                        apparel," I replied, more amused than angered. He paid no attention
                        to my remark.
                    "And this young woman," he continued, pointing to Madge,
                        "this young woman, daughter of the Roman harlot, no doubt, she also
                        is arrayed in silks, taffetas, and fine cloth. Look ye, friends, upon this
                        abominable collar of  Satan; this ruff of fine
                        linen, all smeared in the devil's own liquor, starch. Her vanity is
                        an offence in the nostrils of God's people."
                    As he spoke he stretched forth his hand and caught in his clawlike grasp the
                        dainty white ruff that encircled Madge's neck. When I saw his act,
                        my first impulse was to run him through, and I drew my sword half from its
                        scabbard with that purpose. But he was not the sort of a man upon whom I
                        could use my blade. He was hardly more than a boy—a wild,
                        half-crazed fanatic, whose reason, if he had ever possessed any, had been
                        lost in the Charybdis of his zeal. He honestly thought it was his duty to
                        insult persons who apparently disagreed with him. Such a method of
                        proselyting is really a powerful means of persuasion among certain classes,
                        and it has always been used by men who have successfully founded permanent
                        religious sects. To plant successfully a religious thought or system
                        requires more violent aggression than to conquer a nation.
                    Since I could not run the fellow through, I drew back my arm, and striking as
                        lightly as possible, I laid our zealous friend sprawling on his back. Thus
                        had I the honor of knocking down the founder of the Brownists.
                    If I mistake not, the time will come, if these men are allowed to harange the
                        populace, when the kings of England will be unable to accomplish the feat of
                        knocking down Brown's followers. Heresies, like noxious weeds, grow
                        without cultivation, and thrive best on barren soil. Or shall I say that,
                        like the goodly vine, they bear better fruit when pruned? I cannot fully
                        decide this question for myself; but I admire these sturdy fanatics who so
                        passionately love their own faith, and so bitterly hate all others, and I am
                        almost prepared to say that each new heresy brings to the world a better
                        orthodoxy.
                    For a little time after my encounter with Brown, all my skill was needed to
                        ward off the frantic hero. He  quickly rose to
                        his feet, and, with the help of his friends, seemed determined to spread the
                        gospel by tearing me to pieces. My sword point kept the rabble at a
                        respectful distance for a while, but they crowded closely upon me, and I
                        should have been compelled to kill some of them had I not been reenforced by
                        two men who came to my help and laid about them most joyfully with their
                        quarterstaffs. A few broken heads stemmed for a moment the torrent of
                        religious enthusiasm, and during a pause in the hostilities I hurriedly
                        retreated with Madge, ungratefully leaving my valiant allies to reap the
                        full reward of victory should the fortunes of war favor them.
                    Madge was terribly frightened, and with her by my side I, of course, would
                        not have remained to fight the redoubtable Bayard himself.
                    We hurried forward, but before we reached the inn we were overtaken by our
                        allies whom we had abandoned. Our friends were young men. One wore a rich,
                        half-rustic habit, and the other was dressed as a horse boy. Both were
                        intoxicated. I had been thankful for their help; but I did not want their
                        company.
                    "How now, Cousin Madge?" said our richly dressed ally.
                        "What in the devil's name has brought you into this street
                        broil?"
                    "Ah, Cousin James, is it you?" replied the trembling
                        girl.
                    "Yes, but who is your friend that so cleverly unloaded his quarrel
                        upon us? Hell's fires! but they were like a swarm of wasps. Who is
                        your friend, Madge?"
                    "Sir Malcolm Vernon," replied Madge. "Let me
                        present you, Sir Malcolm, to my cousin, Lord James Stanley."
                    I offered my hand to his Lordship, and said:—
                    "I thank you much for your timely help. I should not have deserted
                        you had I not felt that my first duty was to extricate Lady Madge from the
                        disagreeable situation. We  must hasten away
                        from here, or the mad rabble will follow us."
                    "Right you are, my hearty," returned Stanley, slapping me
                        on the shoulder. "Of course you had to get the wench away. Where do
                        you go? We will bear you company."
                    I longed to pay the fellow for his help by knocking him down; but the
                        possibilities of trouble ahead of us were already too great, and I forced
                        myself to be content with the prowess already achieved.
                    "But you have not told me what brought you into the broil,"
                        asked his Lordship, as we walked toward the inn.
                    "Sir Malcolm and I were walking out to see the town
                        and—"
                    "To see the town? By gad, that's good, Cousin Madge. How
                        much of it did you see? You are as blind as an owl at noon,"
                        answered his Lordship.
                    "Alas! I am blind," returned Madge, clinging closely to me,
                        and shrinking from her cousin's terrible jest. I could not think of
                        anything sufficiently holy and sacred upon which to vow my vengeance against
                        this fellow, if the time should ever come when I dared take it.
                    "Are you alone with this—this gentleman? "asked
                        his Lordship, grasping Madge by the arm.
                    "No," returned Madge, "Dorothy is with
                        us."
                    "She is among the shops," I volunteered reluctantly.
                    "Dorothy? Dorothy Vernon? By gad, Tod, we are in luck. I must see
                        the wench I am to marry," said his Lordship, speaking to his
                        companion, the stable boy. "So Dorothy is with you, is she, cousin?
                        I haven't seen her for years. They say she is a handsome filly now.
                        By gad, she had room to improve, for she was plain enough to frighten rats
                        away from a barn when I last saw her. We will go to the inn and see for
                        ourselves, won't we, Tod? Dad's word won't
                        satisfy us when it comes to the matter of marrying, will it,
                        Tod?"
                    
                    Tod was the drunken stable boy who had assisted his Lordship and me in our
                        battle with the Brownists.
                    I was at a loss what course to pursue. I was forced to submit to this
                        fellow's company, and to endure patiently his insolence. But John
                        and Dorothy would soon return, and there is no need that I should explain
                        the dangers of the predicament which would then ensue.
                    When we were within a few yards of the inn door I looked backward and saw
                        Dorothy and John approaching us. I held up my hand warningly. John caught my
                        meaning, and instantly leaving Dorothy's side, entered an adjacent
                        shop. My movement had attracted Stanley's attention, and he turned
                        in the direction I had been looking. When he saw Dorothy, he turned again to
                        me and asked:—
                    "Is that Dorothy Vernon?"
                    "Yes," I replied.
                    "Look at her, Tod!" exclaimed my lord, "look at
                        her, Tod! The dad was right about her, after all. I thought the old man was
                        hoaxing me when he told me that she was beautiful. Holy Virgin, Tod, did you
                        ever see anything so handsome? I will take her quick enough; I will take
                        her. Dad won't need to tease me. I'm
                        willing."
                    Dorothy approached to within a few yards of us, and my Lord Stanley stepped
                        forward to meet her.
                    "Ye don't know me, do ye?" said Stanley.
                    Dorothy was frightened and quickly stepped to my side.
                    "I—I believe not," responded Dorothy.
                    "Lord James Stanley," murmured Madge, who knew of the
                        approaching Stanley marriage.
                    "Madge is right," returned Stanley, grinning foolishly.
                    "I am your cousin James, but not so much of a cousin that I cannot
                        be more than cousin, heh?" He laughed boisterously, and winking at
                        Tod, thrust his thumb into  that
                        worthy's ribs. "Say, Tod, something more than cousin;
                        that's the thing, isn't it, Tod?"
                    John was standing half-concealed at the door of the shop in which he had
                        sought refuge. Dorothy well knew the peril of the situation, and when I
                        frowned at her warningly, she caught the hint that she should not resent
                        Stanley's words, however, insulting and irritating they might
                        become.
                    "Let us go to the inn," said Dorothy.
                    "That's the thing to do. Let us go to the inn and have
                        dinner," said Stanley. "It's two hours past
                        dinner time now, and I'm almost famished. We'll have a
                        famous dinner. Come, cousin," said he, addressing Dorothy.
                        "We'll have kidneys and tripe and—"
                    "We do not want dinner," said Dorothy. "We must
                        return home at once. Sir Malcolm, will you order Dawson to bring out the
                        coach?"
                    We went to the inn parlor, and I, loath to do so, left the ladies with
                        Stanley and his horse-boy friend while I sought Dawson for the purpose of
                        telling him to fetch the coach with all haste.
                    "We have not dined," said the forester.
                    "We shall not dine," I answered. "Fetch the coach
                        with all the haste you can make." The bystanders in the tap-room
                        were listening, and I continued, "A storm is brewing, and we must
                        hasten home."
                    True enough, a storm was brewing.
                    When I left Dawson, I hurriedly found John and told him we were preparing to
                        leave the inn, and that we would expect him to overtake us on the road to
                        Rowsley.
                    I returned to the ladies in the parlor and found them standing near the
                        window. Stanley had tried to kiss Dorothy, and she had slapped his face.
                        Fortunately he had taken the blow good-humoredly, and was pouring into her
                        unwilling ear a fusillade of boorish compliments when I entered the
                        parlor.
                    
                    I said, "The coach is ready."
                    The ladies moved toward the door. "I am going to ride with you, my
                        beauty," said his Lordship.
                    "That you shall not do," retorted Dorothy, with blazing
                        eyes.
                    "That I will do," he answered. "The roads are free
                        to all, and you cannot keep me from following you."
                    Dorothy was aware of her predicament, and I too saw it, but could find no way
                        out of it. I was troubled a moment; but my fear was needless, for Dorothy
                        was equal to the occasion.
                    "We should like your company, Cousin Stanley," replied
                        Dorothy, without a trace of anger in her manner, "but we cannot let
                        you ride with us in the face of the storm that is brewing."
                    "We won't mind the storm, will we, Tod? We are going with
                        our cousin."
                    "If you insist upon being so kind to us," said Dorothy,
                        "you may come. But I have changed my mind about dinner. I am very
                        hungry, and we accept your invitation."
                    "Now you are coming around nicely," said Lord James,
                        joyfully. "We like that, don't we, Tod?"
                    Tod had been silent under all circumstances.
                    Dorothy continued: "Madge and I will drive in the coach to one or
                        two of the shops, and we shall return in one hour. Meantime, Cousin Stanley,
                        we wish you to have a fine dinner prepared for us, and we promise to do
                        ample justice to the fare."
                    "She'll never come back," said silent Tod, without
                        moving a muscle.
                    "How about it, cousin?" asked Stanley. "Tod says
                        you'll never come back; he means that you are trying to give us the
                        slip."
                    "Never fear, Cousin Stanley," she returned, "I am
                        too  eager for dinner not to come back. If you
                        fail to have a well-loaded table for me, I shall never speak to you
                        again."
                    We then went to the coach, and as the ladies entered it Dorothy said aloud to
                        Dawson:—
                    "Drive to Conn's shop."
                    I heard Tod say to his worthy master:—
                    "She's a slippin' ye."
                    "You're a fool, Tod. Don't you see she want me
                        more than she wants the dinner, and she's hungry,
                        too."
                    "Don't see," retorted his laconic friend.
                    Of course when the coach was well away from the inn, Dawson received new
                        instructions, and took the road to Rowsley. When the ladies had departed, I
                        went to the tap-room with Stanley, and after paying the host for the coffee,
                        the potatoes, and the dinner which alas! we had not tasted, I ordered a
                        great bowl of sack and proceeded to drink with my allies in the hope that I
                        might make them too drunk to follow us. Within half an hour I discovered
                        that I was laboring at a hopeless task. There was great danger that I would
                        be the first to succumb; so I, expressing a wish to sleep off the liquor
                        before the ladies should return, made my escape from the tap-room, mounted
                        my horse, and galloped furiously after Dorothy and Madge. John was riding by
                        the coach when I overtook it.
                    It was two hours past noon when I came up with John and the girls. Snow had
                        been falling softly earlier in the afternoon, but as the day advanced the
                        storm grew in violence. A cold, bleak wind was blowing from the north, and
                        by reason of the weather and because of the ill condition of the roads, the
                        progress of the coach was so slow that darkness overtook us before we had
                        finished half of our journey to Rowsley. Upon the fall of night the storm
                        increased in violence, and the snow came in piercing, horizontal shafts
                        which stung like the prick of a needle.
                    
                    At the hour of six—I but guessed the time—John and I, who
                        were riding at the rear of the coach, heard close on our heels the tramping
                        of horses. I rode forward to Dawson, who was in the coach box, and told him
                        to drive with all the speed he could make. I informed him that some one was
                        following us, and that I feared highwaymen were on our track.
                    Hardly had I finished speaking to Dawson when I heard the report of a
                        hand-fusil, back of the coach, near the spot where I had left John. I
                        quickly drew my sword, though it was a task of no small labor, owing to the
                        numbness of my fingers. I breathed along the blade to warm it, and then I
                        hastened to John, whom I found in a desperate conflict with three ruffians.
                        No better swordsman than John ever drew blade, and he was holding his ground
                        in the darkness right gallantly. When I rode to his rescue, another
                        hand-fusil was discharged, and then another, and I knew that we need have no
                        more fear from bullets, for the three men had discharged their weapons, and
                        they could not reload while John and I were engaging them. I heard the
                        bullets tell upon the coach, and I heard the girls screaming lustily. I
                        feared they had been wounded, but you may be sure I had no leisure to learn
                        the truth. Three against two was terrible odds in the dark, where brute
                        force and luck go for more than skill. We fought desperately for a while,
                        but in the end we succeeded in beating off the highwaymen. When we had
                        finished with the knaves who had attacked us, we quickly overtook our party.
                        We were calling Dawson to stop when we saw the coach, careening with the
                        slant of the hill, topple over, and fall to the bottom of a little precipice
                        five or six feet in height. We at once dismounted and jumped down the
                        declivity to the coach, which lay on its side, almost covered by drifted
                        snow. The pole had broken in the fall, and the horses were standing on the
                        road. We first  saw Dawson. He was swearing
                        like a Dutchman, and when we had dragged him from his snowy grave, we opened
                        the coach door, lifted out the ladies, and seated them upon the uppermost
                        side of the coach. They were only slightly bruised, but what they lacked in
                        bruises they made up in fright. In respect to the latter it were needless
                        for me to attempt a description.
                    We can laugh about it now and speak lightly concerning the adventure, and, as
                        a matter of truth, the humor of the situation appealed to me even then. But
                        imagine yourself in the predicament, and you will save me the trouble of
                        setting forth its real terrors.
                    The snow was up to our belts, and we did not at first know how we were to
                        extricate the ladies. John and Dawson, however, climbed to the road, and I
                        carried Dorothy and Madge to the little precipice where the two men at the
                        top lifted them from my arms. The coach was broken, and when I climbed to
                        the road, John, Dawson, and myself held a council of war against the storm.
                        Dawson said we were three good miles from Rowsley, and that he knew of no
                        house nearer than the village at which we could find shelter. We could not
                        stand in the road and freeze, so I got the blankets and robes from the coach
                        and made riding pads for Dorothy and Madge. These we strapped upon the broad
                        backs of the coach horses, and then assisted the ladies to mount. I walked
                        by the side of Madge, and John performed the same agreeable duty for
                        Dorothy. Dawson went ahead of us, riding my horse and leading
                        John's; and thus we travelled to Rowsley, half dead and nearly
                        frozen, over the longest three miles in the kingdom.
                    John left us before entering the village, and took the road to Rutland,
                        intending to stop for the night at a cottage two miles distant, upon his
                        father's estates. I was to follow Sir John when the ladies were
                        safely lodged at The Peacock.
                    
                    It was agreed between us that nothing should be said concerning the presence
                        of any man save Dawson and myself in our party.
                    When John left us, I rode to The Peacock with Dorothy and Madge, and while I
                        was bidding them good-by my violent cousin, Sir George, entered the inn.
                        Dorothy ran to her father and briefly related the adventures of the night,
                        dwelling with undeserved emphasis upon the help I had rendered. She told her
                        father—the statement was literally true—that she had met
                        me at the Royal Arms, where I was stopping, and that she had, through fear
                        of the storm and in dread of highwaymen, asked me to ride beside their coach
                        to Rowsley.
                    When I saw Sir George enter the room, I expected to have trouble with him;
                        but after he had spoken with Dorothy, much to my surprise, he offered me his
                        hand and said:—
                    "I thank you, Malcolm, for the help you have rendered my girls, and
                        I am glad you have come back to us."
                    "I have not come back to you, Sir George," said I,
                        withholding my hand. "I met Mistress Vernon and Lady Madge at the
                        Royal Arms, and escorted them to Rowsley for reasons which she has just
                        given to you. I was about to depart when you entered."
                    "Tut, tut! Malcolm, you will come with us to Haddon
                        Hall."
                    "To be ordered away again, Sir George?" I asked.
                    "I did not order you to go. You left in a childish fit of anger. Why
                        in the devil's name did you run away so quickly? Could you not have
                        given a man time to cool off? You treated me very badly,
                        Malcolm."
                    "Sir George, you certainly know—"
                    "I know nothing of the sort. Now I want not another word from you.
                        Damme! I say, not another word. If I ever ordered you to leave Haddon Hall,
                        I didn't know what I was doing," cried Sir George,
                        heartily.
                    
                    "But you may again not know," said I.
                    "Now, Malcolm, don't be a greater fool than I was. If I say
                        I did not order you to leave Haddon Hall, can't you take me at my
                        word? My age and my love for you should induce you to let me ease my
                        conscience, if I can. If the same illusion should ever come over you
                        again—that is, if you should ever again imagine that I am ordering
                        you to leave Haddon Hall—well, just tell me to go to the devil. I
                        have been punished enough already, man. Come home with us. Here is Dorothy,
                        whom I love better than I love myself. In anger I might say the same thing
                        to her that I said to you, but—Nonsense, Malcolm, don't be
                        a fool. Come home with us. Haddon is your home as freely as it is the home
                        of Dorothy, Madge, and myself."
                    The old gentleman's voice trembled, and I could not withstand the
                        double force of his kindness and my desire. So it came about that when Madge
                        held out her fair hand appealingly to me, and when Dorothy said,
                        "Please come home with us, Cousin Malcolm," I offered my
                        hand to Sir George, and with feeling said, "Let us make this
                        promise to each other: that nothing hereafter shall come between
                        us."
                    "I gladly promise," responded the generous, impulsive old
                        man. "Dorothy, Madge, and you are all in this world whom I love.
                        Nothing shall make trouble between us. Whatever happens, we will each
                        forgive."
                    The old gentleman was in his kindest, softest mood.
                    "Let us remember the words," said I.
                    "I give my hand and my word upon it," cried Sir George.
                    How easy it is to stake the future upon a present impulse. But when the time
                        for reckoning comes,—when the future becomes the
                        present,—it is sometimes hard to pay the priceless present for the
                        squandered past.
                    Next morning we all rode home to Haddon,—how sweet  the words sound even at this distance of
                        time!—and there was rejoicing in the Hall as if the prodigal had
                        returned.
                    In the evening I came upon Madge unawares. She was softly singing a plaintive
                        little love song. I did not disturb her, and as I stole away again I said to
                        myself, "God is good." A realization of that great truth
                        had of learn it, life takes on a different color.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    TRIBULATION IN HADDON
                    
                    AFTER I had left Haddon at Sir George's tempestuous order, he had
                        remained in a state of furious anger against Dorothy and myself for a
                        fortnight or more. But after her adroit conversation with him concerning the
                        Stanley marriage, wherein she neither promised nor refused, and after she
                        learned that she could more easily cajole her father than command him,
                        Dorothy easily ensconced herself again in his warm heart, and took me into
                        that capacious abode along with her.
                    Then came the trip to Derby, whereby his serene Lordship, James Stanley, had
                        been enabled to see Dorothy and to fall in love with her winsome beauty, and
                        whereby I was brought back to Haddon. Thereafter came events crowding so
                        rapidly one upon the heels of another that I scarce know where to begin the
                        telling of them. I shall not stop to say, "Sir George told me
                        this," or "Madge, Dorothy, or John told me that,"
                        but I shall write as if I had personal knowledge of all that happened. After
                        all, the important fact is that I know the truth concerning matters whereof
                        I write, and of that you may rest with surety.
                    The snow lay upon the ground for a fortnight after the storm in which we rode
                        from Derby, but at the end of that time it melted, and the sun shone with
                        the brilliancy and warmth of springtide. So warm and genial was the weather
                        that the trees, flowers, and shrubs were cozened into buding  forth. The buds were withered by a killing
                        frost which came upon us later in the season at a time when the spring
                        should have been abroad in all her graciousness, and that year was called
                        the year of the leafless summer.
                    One afternoon Sir George received a distinguished guest in the person of the
                        Earl of Derby, and the two old gentlemen remained closeted together for
                        several hours. That night at supper, after the ladies had risen from table,
                        Sir George dismissed the servants saying that he wished to speak to me in
                        private. I feared that he intended again bringing forward the subject of
                        marriage with Dorothy, but he soon relieved my mind.
                    "The Earl of Derby was here to-day. He has asked for Doll's
                        hand in marriage with his eldest son and heir, Lord James Stanley, and I
                        have granted the request."
                    "Indeed," I responded, with marvellous intelligence. I
                        could say nothing more, but I thought—in truth I knew—that
                        it did not lie within the power of any man in or out of England to dispose
                        of Dorothy Vernon's hand in marriage to Lord James Stanley. Her
                        father might make a murderess out of her, but Countess of Derby, never.
                    Sir George continued, "The general terms of the marriage contract
                        have been agreed upon by the earl and me, and the lawyers will do the
                        rest."
                    "What is your feeling in the matter?" I asked
                        aimlessly.
                    "My feeling?" cried Sir George. "Why, sir, my
                        feeling is that the girl shall marry Stanley just as soon as arrangements
                        can be made for the wedding ceremony. The young fellow, it seems, saw Doll
                        at Derby-town the day you came home, and since then he is eager, his father
                        tells me, for the union. He is coming to see her when I give my permission,
                        and I will send him word at as early a date as propriety will admit. I must
                        not let them be seen together too soon, you know. There might be a hitch in
                             the marriage negotiations. The earl is a
                        tight one in business matters, and might drive a hard bargain with me should
                        I allow his son to place Doll in a false position before the marriage
                        contract is signed." He little knew how certainly Dorothy herself
                        would avoid that disaster.
                    He took a long draught from his mug of toddy and winked knowingly at me,
                        saying, "I am too wise for that."
                    "Have you told Dorothy?" I asked.
                    "No," he replied, "I have not exactly told her. I
                        had a talk with her a few days ago on the subject, though the earl and I had
                        not, at that time, entirely agreed upon the terms, and I did not know that
                        we should agree. But I told her of the pending negotiations, because I
                        wished to prepare her for the signing of the contract; and also, by gad,
                        Malcolm, I wanted to make the girl understand at the outset that I will have
                        no trifling with my commands in this matter. I made that feature of the case
                        very plain, you may rest assured. She understands me fully, and although at
                        first she was a little inclined to fight, she soon—she
                        soon—well, she knuckled under gracefully when she found she
                        must."
                    "Did she consent to the marriage?" I asked, well knowing
                        that even if she had consented in words, she had no thought of doing so in
                        deed.
                    "Y-e-s," returned Sir George, hesitatingly.
                    "I congratulate you," I replied.
                    "I shall grieve to lose Doll," the old man slowly continued
                        with perceptible signs of emotion. "I shall grieve to lose my girl,
                        but I am anxious to have the wedding over. You see, Malcolm, of late I have
                        noticed signs of wilfulness in Doll that can be more easily handled by a
                        husband than by a father. Marriage and children anchor a woman, you know. In
                        truth, I have opened my eyes to the fact that Doll is growing dangerous.
                        I'gad, the other day I thought she was a child, but suddenly I
                        learn  she is a woman. I had not before
                        noticed the change. Beauty and wilfulness, such as the girl has of late
                        developed, are powers not to be underestimated by wise men. There is hell in
                        them, Malcolm, I tell you there is hell in them." Sir George
                        meditatively snuffed the candle with his fingers and continued: "If
                        a horse once learns that he can kick—sell him. Only yesterday, as I
                        said, Doll was a child, and now, by Jove, she is a full-blown woman, and I
                        catch myself standing in awe of her and calling her Dorothy. Yes, damme,
                        standing in awe of my own child! That will never do, you know. What has
                        wrought the change? And, after all, what is the change? I can't
                        define it, but there has been a great one."
                    He was in a revery and spoke more to himself than to me. "Yesterday
                        she was my child—she was a child, and now—and
                        now—she is—she is—Why the devil didn't
                        you take her, Malcolm?" cried the old man, awakening. "But
                        there, never mind; that is all past and gone, and the future Earl of Derby
                        will be a great match for her."
                    "Do you know the future Earl of Derby?" I asked.
                    "Have you ever seen him?"
                    "No," Sir George replied. "I hear he is rather
                        wild and uncouth, but—"
                    "My dear cousin,' said I, interrupting him, "he is
                        a vulgar, drunken clown, whose associates have always been stable boys,
                        tavern maids, and those who are worse than either."
                    "What?" cried Sir George, hotly, the liquor having reached
                        his brain. "You won't have Doll yourself, and you
                        won't consent to another—damme, would you have the girl
                        wither into spinsterhood? How, sir, dare you interfere?"
                    "I withdraw all I said, Sir George," I replied hastily.
                        "I have not a word to say against the match. I
                        thought—"
                    
                    "Well, damn you, sir, don't think."
                    "You said you wished to consult me about the affair, and I
                        supposed—"
                    "Don't suppose either," replied Sir George,
                        sullenly.
                    "Supposing and thinking have hanged many a man. I didn't
                        wish to consult you. I simply wanted to tell you of the projected
                        marriage." Then after a moment of half-maudlin, sullen silence he
                        continued, "Go to bed, Malcolm, go to bed, or we'll be
                        quarrelling again."
                    I was glad enough to go to bed, for my cousin was growing drunk, and drink
                        made a demon of this man, whose violence when sober was tempered by a heart
                        full of tenderness and love.
                    Next morning Sir George was feeling irritable from the effects of the brandy
                        he had drunk over night. At breakfast, in the presence of Lady Crawford,
                        Madge, and myself, he abruptly informed Dorothy that he was about to give
                        that young goddess to Lord James Stanley for his wife. He told her of the
                        arrangement he had made the day before with the Earl of Derby. Lady Crawford
                        looked toward her brother in surprise, and Madge pushed her chair a little
                        way back from the table with a startled movement. Dorothy sprang to her
                        feet, her eyes flashing fire and her breast rising and falling like the
                        storm-wrought pulsing of the sea. I coughed warningly and placed my finger
                        on my lips, making the sign of silence to Dorothy. The girl made a wondrous
                        and beautiful struggle against her wrath, and in a moment all signs of
                        ill-temper disappeared, and her face took on an expression of sweet meekness
                        which did not belong there of right. She quietly sat down again, and when I
                        looked at her, I would have sworn that Griselda in the flesh was sitting
                        opposite me. Sir George was right. "Ways such as the girl had of
                        late developed were dangerous." Hell was in them to an extent
                        little dreamed of by her father. Breakfast was  finished in silence. Dorothy did not come down to dinner at noon, but Sir
                        George did not mark her absence. At supper her place was still vacant.
                    "Where is Doll?" cried Sir George, angrily. He had been
                        drinking heavily during the afternoon. "Where is Doll?" he
                        demanded.
                    "She is on the terrace," answered Madge. "She said
                        she did not want supper."
                    "Tell your mistress to come to supper," said Sir George,
                        speaking to one of the servants. "You will find her on the
                        terrace."
                    The servant left the room, but soon returned, saying that Mistress Dorothy
                        wanted no supper.
                    "Tell her to come to the table whether she wants supper or not. Tell
                        her I will put a stop to her moping about the place like a surly
                        vixen," growled Sir George.
                    "Don't send such a message by a servant," pleaded
                        Lady Crawford.
                    "Then take it to her yourself, Dorothy," exclaimed her
                        brother.
                    Dorothy returned with her aunt and meekly took her place at the table.
                    "I will have none of your moping and pouting," said Sir
                        George, as Dorothy was taking her chair.
                    The girl made no reply, but she did not eat.
                    "Eat your supper," her father commanded. "I tell
                        you I will have no—"
                    "You would not have me eat if I am not hungry, would you,
                        father?" she asked softly.
                    "I'd have you hungry, you perverse wench."
                    "Then make me an appetite," returned the girl. I never
                        heard more ominous tones fall from human lips. They betokened a mood in
                        which one could easily do murder in cold blood, and I was surprised that Sir
                        George did not take warning and remain silent.
                    
                    "I cannot make an appetite for you, fool," he replied
                        testily.
                    "Then you cannot make me eat," retorted Dorothy.
                    "Ah, you would answer me, would you, you brazen, insolent
                        huzzy," cried her father, angrily.
                    Dorothy held up her hand warningly to Sir George, and uttered the one word,
                        "Father." Her voice sounded like the clear, low ring of
                        steel as I have heard it in the stillness of sunrise during a duel to the
                        death. Madge gently placed her hand in Dorothy's, but the caress
                        met no response.
                    "Go to your room," answered Sir George.
                    Dorothy rose to her feet and spoke calmly: "I have not said that I
                        would disobey you in regard to this marriage which you have sought for me;
                        and your harshness, father, grows out of your effort to reconcile your
                        conscience with the outrage you would put upon your own flesh and
                        blood—your only child."
                    "Suffering God!" cried Sir George, frenzied with anger and
                        drink. "Am I to endure such insolence from my own child? The
                        lawyers will be here to-morrow. The contract will be signed, and, thank God,
                        I shall soon be rid of you. I'll place you in the hands of one who
                        will break your damnable will and curb your vixenish temper." Then
                        he turned to Lady Crawford. "Dorothy, if there is anything to do in
                        the way of gowns and women's trumpery in preparation for the
                        wedding, begin at once, for the ceremony shall come off within a
                        fortnight."
                    This was beyond Dorothy's power to endure. Madge felt the storm
                        coming and clutched her by the arm in an effort to stop her, but nothing
                        could have done that.
                    "I marry Lord Stanley?" she asked in low, bell-like tones,
                        full of contempt and disdain. "Marry that creature? Father, you
                        don't know me."
                    "By God, I know myself," retorted Sir George, "and
                        I say—"
                    
                    
                        "'I WILL OPEN THE VEINS IN THIS
                            ARM.'"
                    
                    
                    "Now hear me, father," she interrupted in a manner that
                        silenced even him. She bent forward, resting one fair hand upon the table,
                        while she held out her other arm bared to the elbow. "Hear what I
                        say and take it for the truth as if it had come from Holy Writ. I will open
                        the veins in this arm and will strew my blood in a gapless circle around
                        Haddon Hall so that you shall tread upon it whenever you go forth into the
                        day or into the night before I will marry the drunken idiot with whom you
                        would curse me. Ay, I will do more. I will kill you, if need be, should you
                        try to force him on me. Now, father, we understand each other. At least you
                        cannot fail to understand me. For the last time I warn you. Beware of
                        me."
                    She gently pushed the chair back from the table, quietly adjusted the sleeve
                        which she had drawn upward from her wrist, and slowly walked out of the
                        room, softly humming the refrain of a roundelay. There was no trace of
                        excitement about the girl. Her brain was acting with the ease and precision
                        of a perfectly constructed machine. Sir George, by his violence and cruelty,
                        had made a fiend of this strong, passionate, tender heart. That was all.
                    The supper, of course, was quickly finished, and the ladies left the
                        room.
                    Sir George took to his bottle and remained with it till his servants put him
                        to bed. I slipped away from him and smoked a pipe in front of the kitchen
                        fire. Then I went early to my bed in Eagle Tower.
                    Dorothy went to her apartments. There she lay upon her bed, and for a time
                        her heart was like flint. Soon she thought of her precious golden heart
                        pierced with a silver arrow, and tears came to her eyes as she drew the
                        priceless treasure from her breast and breathed upon it a prayer to the God
                        of love for help. Her heart was soft again, soft only as hers could be, and
                        peace came  to her as she pressed
                        John's golden heart to her lips and murmured over and over the
                        words, "My love, my love, my love," and murmuring fell
                        asleep.
                    I wonder how many of the countless women of this world found peace, comfort,
                        and ecstasy in breathing those magic words yesterday? How many have found
                        them to-day? How many will find them to-morrow? No one can tell; but this I
                        know, they come to every woman at some time in her life, righteously or
                        unrighteously, as surely as her heart pulses.
                    That evening Jennie Faxton bore a letter to John, informing him of the
                        projected Stanley marriage. It asked him to meet the writer at Bowling Green
                        Gate, and begged him to help her if he could.
                    The small and intermittent remnants of conscience, sense of duty, and caution
                        which still remained in John's head—I will not say in
                        John's heart, for that was full to over-flowing with something
                        else—were quickly banished by the unwelcome news in
                        Dorothy's letter. His first impulse was to kill Stanley; but John
                        Manners was not an assassin, and a duel would make public all he wished to
                        conceal. He wished to conceal, among other things, his presence at Rutland.
                        He had two reasons for so desiring. First in point of time was the urgent
                        purpose with which he had come to Derbyshire. That purpose was to further a
                        plan for the rescue of Mary Stuart and to bring her incognito to Rutland
                        Castle as a refuge until Elizabeth could be persuaded to receive her. Of
                        this plan I knew nothing till after the disastrous attempt to carry it out,
                        of which I shall hereafter tell you. The other reason why John wished his
                        presence at Rutland unknown was that if he were supposed to be in London, no
                        one would suspect him of knowing Dorothy Vernon.
                    You must remember there had been no overt love-making between John and
                        Dorothy up to that time. The  scene at the
                        gate approached perilously near it, but the line between concealment and
                        confession had not been crossed. Mind you, I say there had been no
                        love-making between them. While Dorothy had gone as far in
                        that direction as a maiden should dare go—and to tell the exact
                        truth, a great deal farther—John had remained almost silent for
                        reasons already given you. He also felt a fear of the girl, and failed to
                        see in her conduct those signs of intense love which would have been plainly
                        discernible had not his perceptions been blinded by the fury of his own
                        infatuation. He had placed a curb on his passion and did not really know its
                        strength and power until he learned that another man was soon to possess the
                        girl he loved. Then life held but one purpose for him. Thus, you see that
                        when Dorothy was moaning, "My love, my love," and was
                        kissing the golden heart, she was taking a great deal for granted. Perhaps,
                        however, she better understood John's feeling for her than did he
                        himself. A woman's sixth sense, intuition, is a great help to her
                        in such cases. Perhaps the girl knew with intuitive confidence that her
                        passion was returned; and perhaps at first she found John's
                        receptive mode of wooing sweeter far than an aggressive attack would have
                        been. It may be also there was more of the serpent's cunning than
                        of reticence in John's conduct. He knew well the ways of women, and
                        perhaps he realized that if he would allow Dorothy to manage the entire
                        affair she would do his wooing for him much better than he could do it for
                        himself. If you are a man, try the plan upon the next woman whom you seek to
                        win. If she happens to be one who has full confidence in her charms, you
                        will be surprised at the result. Women lacking that confidence are
                        restrained by fear and doubt. But in no case have I much faith in the
                        hammer-and-tongs process at the opening of a campaign. Later on, of
                        course—but you doubtless are quite as well  informed concerning this important subject as I. There is,
                        however, so much blundering in that branch of science that I have a mind to
                        endow a college at Oxford or at Paris in which shall be taught the gentle,
                        universally needed art of making love. What a noble attendance such a
                        college would draw. But I have wandered wofully from my story.
                    I must go back a short time in my narrative. A few days before my return to
                        Haddon Hall the great iron key to the gate in the wall east of Bowling Green
                        Hill was missed from the forester's closet where it had hung for a
                        century or more. Bowling Green Hill, as you know, is eastward from Haddon
                        Hall a distance of the fourth part of a mile, and the gate is east of the
                        hill about the same distance or less. A wall is built upon the east line of
                        the Haddon estate, and east of the wall lies a great trackless forest
                        belonging to the house of Devonshire. In olden times there had been a road
                        from Bakewell to Rowsley along the east side of the wall; but before Sir
                        George's seizin the road had been abandoned and the gate was not
                        used. It stood in a secluded, unfrequented spot, and Dorothy thought herself
                        very shrewd in choosing it for a trysting-place.
                    But as I told you, one day the key was missed. It was of no value or use, and
                        at first nothing was thought of its loss; but from time to time the fact
                        that it could not be found was spoken of as curious. All the servants had
                        been questioned in vain, and the loss of the key to Bowling Green Gate soon
                        took on the dignity of a mystery—a mystery soon to be solved, alas!
                        to Dorothy's undoing.
                    The afternoon of the day following the terrible scene between Sir George and
                        his daughter at the supper table, Dorothy rode forth alone upon her mare
                        Dolcy. From the window of my room in Eagle Tower I saw her go down the west
                        side of the Wye toward Rowsley. I  ascended to
                        the roof of the tower, and from that elevation I saw her cross the river,
                        and soon she was lost to sight in the forest. At that time I knew nothing of
                        the new trysting-place, but I felt sure that Dorothy had gone out to seek
                        John. The sun shone brightly, and its gentle warmth enticed me to remain
                        upon the tower battlements, to muse, and to dream. I fetched my pipe and
                        tobacco from my room. I had been smoking at intervals for several months,
                        but had not entirely learned to like the weed, because of a slight nausea
                        which it invariably caused me to feel. But I thought by practice now and
                        again to inure myself to the habit, which was then so new and fashionable
                        among modish gentlemen. While I smoked I mused upon the past and present,
                        and tried to peer into the future—a fruitless task wherein we waste
                        much valuable time; a vai-> striving, like
                        Eve's, after forbidden knowledge, which, should we possess it,
                        would destroy the little remnant of Eden still existing on earth. Could we
                        look forward only to our joys, a knowledge of the future might be good to
                        have; but imagine, if you can, the horror of anticipating evils to come.
                    After a short time, a lotuslike dreaminess stole over me, and past and future
                        seemed to blend in a supreme present of contentment and rest. Then I knew I
                        had wooed and won Tobacco and that thenceforth I had at hand an ever ready
                        solace in time of trouble. At the end of an hour my dreaming was disturbed
                        by voices, which came distinctly up to me from the base of the tower. I
                        leaned over the battlements to listen, and what I heard gave me alarm and
                        concern such as all the tobacco in the world could not assuage. I looked
                        down the dizzy heights of Eagle Tower and saw Sir George in conversation
                        with Ben Shaw, a woodman. I had not heard the words first spoken between
                        them.
                    "Ay, ay, Sir George," said Ben, "they be there, by
                             Bowling Green Gate, now. I saw them
                        twenty minutes since,—Mistress Vernon and a
                        gentlemen."
                    "Perhaps the gentleman is Sir Malcolm," answered my cousin.
                        I drew back from the battlements, and the wood-man replied,
                        "Perhaps he be, but I doubt it."
                    There had been a partial reconciliation—sincere on Sir
                        George's part, but false and hollow on
                        Dorothy's—which Madge had brought about between father and
                        daughter that morning. Sir George, who was sober and repentant of his
                        harshness, was inclined to be tender to Dorothy, though he still insisted in
                        the matter of the Stanley marriage. Dorothy's anger had cooled, and
                        cunning had taken its place. Sir George had asked her to forgive him for the
                        hard words he had spoken, and she had again led him to believe that she
                        would be dutiful and obedient. It is hard to determine, as a question of
                        right and wrong, whether Dorothy is to be condemned or justified in the
                        woful deception she practised upon her father. To use a plain, ugly word,
                        she lied to him without hesitation or pain of conscience. Still, we must
                        remember that, forty years ago, girls were frequently forced, regardless of
                        cries and piteous agony, into marriages to which death would have been
                        preferable. They were flogged into obedience, imprisoned and starved into
                        obedience, and alas! they were sometimes killed in the course of punishment
                        for disobedience by men of Sir George's school and temper. I could
                        give you at least one instance in which a fair girl met her death from
                        punishment inflicted by her father because she would not consent to wed the
                        man of his choice. Can we blame Dorothy if she would lie or rob or do murder
                        to avoid a fate which to her would have been worse than death? When you find
                        yourself condemning her, now or hereafter in this history, if you are a man
                        ask yourself this question: "If I had a sweetheart in
                        Dorothy's sad case, should I not wish her to do  as she did? Should I not wish, if it were
                        possible by any means, that she should save herself from the worst of fates,
                        and should save me from the agony of losing her to such a man as Sir George
                        had selected for Dorothy's husband? Is it not a sin to disobey the
                        law of self-preservation actively or passively?" Answer these
                        questions as you choose. As for myself, I say God bless Dorothy for lying.
                        Perhaps I am in error. Perhaps I am not. I but tell you the story of Dorothy
                        as it happened, and I am a poor hand at solving questions of right and wrong
                        where a beautiful woman is concerned. To my thinking, she usually is in the
                        right. In any case, she is sure to have the benefit of the doubt.
                    When Sir George heard the woodman's story, he started hurriedly
                        toward Bowling Green Gate.
                    Now I shall tell you of Dorothy's adventures after I saw her cross
                        the Wye.
                    When she reached the gate, John was waiting for her.
                    "Ah, Sir John, I am so glad you are here. That is, I am glad you are
                        here before I arrived—good even," said the girl,
                        confusedly. Her heart again was beating in a provoking manner, and her
                        breath would not come with ease and regularity. The rapid progress of the
                        malady with which she was afflicted or blessed was plainly discernible since
                        the last meeting with my friend, Sir John. That is, it would have been plain
                        to any one but John, whose ailment had taken a fatal turn and had progressed
                        to the ante-mortem state of blindness. By the help of the stimulating hope
                        and fear which Dorothy's letter had brought to him, he had planned
                        an elaborate conversation, and had determined to speak decisive words. He
                        hoped to receive from her the answer for which he longed; but his heart and
                        breath seemed to have conspired with Dorothy to make intercommunication
                        troublesome.
                    "I received your gracious letter, Mistress Vernon, and I  thank you. I was—I am—that
                        is, my thanks are more than I—I can express."
                    "So I see," said the girl, half amused at John's
                        condition, although it was but little worse than her own. This universal
                        malady, love, never takes its blind form in women. It opens their eyes.
                        Under its influence they can see the truth through a millstone. The
                        girl's heart jumped with joy when she saw John's
                        truth-telling manner, and composure quickly came to her relief, though she
                        still feigned confusion because she wished him to see the truth in her as
                        she had seen it in him. She well knew of his blindness, and had almost begun
                        to fear lest she would eventually be compelled to tell him in words that
                        which she so ardently wished him to see for himself. She thought John was
                        the blindest of his sex; but she was, to a certain extent, mistaken. John
                        was blind, as you already know, but his reticence was not all due to a lack
                        of sight. He at least had reached the condition of a well-developed hope. He
                        hoped the girl cared for him. He would have fully believed it had it not
                        been for the difficulty he found in convincing himself that a goddess like
                        Dorothy could care for a man so unworthy as himself. Most modest persons are
                        self-respecting. That was John's condition; he was not vain.
                    "Jennie brought me your letter also," said the girl,
                        laughing because she was happy, though her merriment somewhat disconcerted
                        John.
                    "It told me," she continued, "that you would come.
                        I have it here in my pocket—and—and the gate
                        key," She determined this time to introduce the key early in the
                        engagement. "But I feared you might not want to come." The
                        cunning, the boldness, and the humility of the serpent was in the girl.
                        "That is, you know, I thought—perhaps—that is, I
                        feared that you might not come. Your father might have been ill, or you
                        might have changed your mind after you wrote the letter."
                    
                    "No," answered John, whose face was beaming with joy. Here,
                        truly, was a goddess who could make the blind to see if she were but given a
                        little time.
                    "Do you mean that your father is not ill, or that you did not change
                        your mind?" asked Dorothy, whose face, as it should have been after
                        such a speech, was bent low while she struggled with the great iron key,
                        entangled in the pocket of her gown.
                    "I mean that I have not changed my mind," said John, who
                        felt that the time to speak had come. "There has been no change in
                        me other than a new access of eagerness with every hour, and a new longing
                        to see you and to hear your voice."
                    Dorothy felt a great thrill pass through her breast, and she knew that the
                        reward of her labors was at hand.
                    "Certainly," said the self-complacent girl, hardly
                        conscious of her words, so great was the joyous tumult in her heart,
                        "I should have known."
                    There was another pause, devoted to the key, with bended head.
                        "But—but you might have changed your mind," she
                        continued, "and I might not have known it, for, you see, I did not
                        know your former state of mind; you have never told me." Her tongue
                        had led her further than she had intended to go, and she blushed painfully,
                        and I think, considering her words, appropriately.
                    "My letter told you my state of mind. At least it told you of my
                        intention to come. I—I fear that I do not understand you,"
                        said John.
                    "I mean," she replied, with a saucy, fluttering little
                        laugh as she looked up from her conflict with the entangled key, "I
                        mean that—that you don't know what I mean. But here is the
                        key at last, and—and—you may, if you wish, come to this
                        side of the gate."
                    She stepped forward to unlock the gate with an air that seemed to say,
                        "Now, John, you shall have a clear field."  But to her surprise she found that the lock
                        had been removed. That discovery brought back to John his wandering
                        wits.
                    "Mistress Dorothy," he cried in tones of alarm, "I
                        must not remain here. We are suspected and are sure to be discovered. Your
                        father has set a trap for us. I care not for myself, but I would not bring
                        upon you the trouble and distress which would surely follow discovery. Let
                        us quickly choose another place and time of meeting. I pray you, sweet lady,
                        meet me to-morrow at this time near the white cliff back of Lathkil mill. I
                        have that to say to you which is the very blood of my heart. I must now
                        leave you at once."
                    He took her hand, and kissing it, started to leave through the open gate.
                    The girl caught his arm to detain him. "Say it now, John, say it
                        now. I have dreamed of it by night and by day. You know all, and I know all,
                        and I long to hear from your lips the words that will break down all
                        barriers between us." She had been carried away by the mad onrush
                        of her passion. She was the iron, the seed, the cloud, and the rain, and she
                        spoke because she could not help it.
                    "I will speak, Dorothy, God help me! God help me, I will
                        speak!" said John, as he caught the girl to his breast in a fierce
                        embrace. "I love you, I love you! God Himself only knows how
                        deeply, how passionately! I do not know. I cannot fathom its depths. With
                        all my heart and soul, with every drop of blood that pulses through my
                        veins, I love you—I adore you. Give me your lips, my beauty, my
                        Aphrodite, my queen!"
                    "There—they—are, John,—there they are.
                        They are—all yours—all yours—now! Oh, God! my
                        blood is on fire." She buried her face on his breast for shame,
                        that he might not see her burning eyes and her scarlet  cheeks. Then after a time she cared not what he saw, and she
                        lifted her lips to his, a voluntary offering. The supreme emotions of the
                        moment drove all other consciousness from their souls.
                    "Tell me, Dorothy, that you will be my wife. Tell me, tell
                        me!" cried John.
                    "I will, I will, oh, how gladly, how gladly!"
                    "Tell me that no power on earth can force you to marry Lord Stanley.
                        Tell me that you will marry no man but me; that you will wait—wait
                        for me till—"
                    "I will marry no man but you, John, no man but you," said
                        the girl, whisperingly. Her head was thrown back from his breast that she
                        might look into his eyes, and that he might see the truth in hers.
                        "I am all yours. But oh, John, I cannot wait—I cannot! Do
                        not ask me to wait. It would kill me. I wear the golden heart you gave me,
                        John," she continued, as she nestled closer in his embrace.
                        "I wear the golden heart always. It is never from me, even for one
                        little moment. I bear it always upon my heart, John. Here it is."
                        She drew from her breast the golden heart and kissed it. Then she pressed it
                        to his lips, and said: "I kiss it twenty times in the day and in
                        the night; ay, a hundred times. I do not know how often; but now I kiss your
                        real heart, John," and she kissed his breast, and then stood tiptoe
                        to lift her lips to his.
                    There was no room left now in John's heart for doubt that Dorothy
                        Vernon was his own forever and forever. She had convinced him beyond the
                        reach of fear or doubt. John forgot the lockless gate. He forgot everything
                        but Dorothy, and cruel time passed with a rapidity of which they were
                        unconscious. They were, however, brought back to consciousness by hearing a
                        long blast from the forester's bugle, and John immediately
                        retreated through the gate.
                    Dorothy then closed the gate and hastily seated herself  upon a stone bench against the Haddon side of the wall. She
                        quickly assumed an attitude of listless repose, and Dolcy, who was nibbling
                        at the grass near by, doubtless supposed that her mistress had come to
                        Bowling Green Gate to rest because it was a secluded place, and because she
                        desired to be alone.
                    Dorothy's attitude was not assumed one moment too soon, for hardly
                        was her gown arranged with due regard to carelessness when Sir
                        George's form rose above the crest of Bowling Green Hill. In a few
                        minutes he was standing in front of his daughter, red with anger.
                        Dorothy's face wore a look of calm innocence, which I believe would
                        have deceived Solomon himself, notwithstanding that great man's
                        experience with the sex. It did more to throw Sir George off the scent than
                        any words the girl could have spoken.
                    "Who has been with you?" demanded Sir George, angrily.
                    "When, father?" queried the girl, listlessly resting her
                        head against the wall.
                    "Now, this afternoon. Who has been with you? Ben Shaw said that a
                        man was here. He said that he saw a man with you less than half an hour
                        since."
                    That piece of information was startling to Dorothy, but no trace of surprise
                        was visible in her manner or in her voice. She turned listlessly and brushed
                        a dry leaf from her gown. Then she looked calmly up into her
                        father's face and said laconically, but to the point:—
                    "Ben lied." To herself she said, "Ben shall also
                        suffer."
                    I do not believe that Ben lied," said Sir George. "I,
                        myself, saw a man go away from here."
                    That was crowding the girl into close quarters, but she did not flinch.
                    "Which way did he go, father?" she asked, with a fine show
                        of carelessness in her manner, but with a feeling of  excruciating fear in her breast. She well knew the wisdom of
                        the maxim, "Never confess."
                    "He went northward," answered Sir George.
                    "Inside the wall?" asked Dorothy, beginning again to
                        breathe freely, for she knew that John had ridden southward.
                    "Inside the wall, of course," her father replied.
                        "Do you suppose I could see him through the stone wall? One should
                        be able to see through a stone wall to keep good watch on you."
                    "You might have thought you saw him through the wall,"
                        answered the girl. "I sometimes think of late, father, that you are
                        losing your mind. You drink too much brandy, my dear father. Oh,
                        wouldn't it be dreadful if you were to lose your mind?"
                        She rose as she spoke, and going to her father began to stroke him gently
                        with her hand. She looked into his face with real affection; for when she
                        deceived him, she loved him best as a partial atonement for her
                        ill-doing.
                    "Wouldn't that be dreadful?" she continued, while
                        Sir George stood lost in bewilderment. "Wouldn't that be
                        dreadful for my dear old father to lose his mind? But I really think it must
                        be coming to pass. A great change has of late come over you, father. You
                        have for the first time in your life been unking to me and suspicious.
                        Father, do you realize that you insult your daughter when you accuse her of
                        having been in this secluded place with a man? You would punish another for
                        speaking so against my fair name."
                    "But, Dorothy," Sir George replied, feeling as if he were
                        in the wrong, "Ben Shaw said that he saw you here with a man, and I
                        saw a man pass toward Bakewell. Who was he? I command you to tell me his
                        name."
                    Dorothy knew that her father must have seen a man near the gate, but who he
                        was she could not imagine. John surely was beyond the wall and well out of
                        sight on  his way to Rowsley before her father
                        reached the crest of Bowling Green Hill. But it was evident that Shaw had
                        seen John. Evidence that a man had been at the gate was too strong to be
                        successfully contradicted. Facts that cannot be successfully contradicted
                        had better be frankly admitted. Dorothy sought through her mind for an
                        admission that would not admit, and soon hit upon a plan which, shrewd as it
                        seemed to be, soon brought her to grief.
                    "Perhaps you saw Cousin Malcolm," said Dorothy, as the
                        result of her mental search. "He passed here a little time since
                        and stopped for a moment to talk. Perhaps you saw Malcolm, father. You would
                        not find fault with me because he was here, would you?"
                    "Dorothy, my daughter," said Sir George, hesitatingly,
                        "are you telling me the truth?"
                    Then the fair girl lifted up her beautiful head, and standing erect at her
                        full height (it pains me to tell you this) said: "Father, I am a
                        Vernon. I would not lie."
                    Her manner was so truthlike that Sir George was almost convinced.
                    He said, "I believe you."
                    Her father's confidence touched her keenly; but not to the point of
                        repentance, I hardly need say.
                    Dorothy then grew anxious to return to the Hall that she might prepare me to
                        answer whatever idle questions her father should put to me. She took
                        Dolcy's rein, and leading the mare with one hand while she rested
                        the other upon her father's arm, walked gayly across Bowling Green
                        down to the Hall, very happy because of her lucky escape.
                    But a lie is always full of latent retribution.
                    I was sitting in the kitchen, dreamily watching the huge fire, when Dorothy
                        and her father entered.
                    "Ah, Malcolm, are you here?" asked Sir George in a  peculiar tone of surprise for which I could
                        see no reason. "I thought you were walking."
                    I was smoking. I took my pipe from my lips and said, "No, I am
                        helping old Bess and Jennie with supper."
                    "Have you not been walking?" asked Sir George.
                    There was an odd expression on his face when I looked up to him, and I was
                        surprised at his persistent inquiry concerning so trivial a matter. But Sir
                        George's expression, agitated as it was, still was calm when
                        compared with that of Dorothy, who stood a step or two behind her father.
                        Not only was her face expressive, but her hands, her feet, her whole body
                        were convulsed in an effort to express something which, for the life of me,
                        I could not understand. Her wonderful eyes wore an expression, only too
                        readable, of terror and pleading. She moved her hands rapidly and stamped
                        her foot. During this pantomime she was forming words with her lips and
                        nodding her head affirmatively. Her efforts at expression were lost upon me,
                        and I could only respond with a blank stare of astonishment. The expression
                        on my face caused Sir George to turn in the direction of my gaze, and he did
                        so just in time to catch Dorothy in the midst of a mighty pantomimic effort
                        at mute communication.
                    "Why in the devil's name are you making those
                        grimaces?" demanded Sir George.
                    "I wasn't making grimaces—I—I think I was
                        about to sneeze," replied Dorothy.
                    "Do you think I am blind?" stormed Sir George.
                        "Perhaps I am losing my mind? You are trying to tell Malcolm to say
                        that he was with you at Bowling Green Gate. Losing my mind, am I? Damme,
                        I'll show you that if I am losing my mind I have not lost my
                        authority in my own house."
                    "Now, father, what is all this storming about?" asked the
                        girl, coaxingly, as she boldly put her hands upon her  father's shoulders and turned her face in all its
                        wondrous beauty and childish innocence of expression up to his.
                        "Ask Malcolm to tell you whatever you wish to know." She
                        was sure that her father had told me what she had been so anxious to
                        communicate, and she felt certain that I would not betray her. She knew that
                        I, whose only virtues were that I loved my friend and despised a lie, would
                        willingly bear false witness for her sake. She was right. I had caught the
                        truth of the situation from Sir George, and I quickly determined to perjure
                        my soul, if need be, to help Dorothy. I cannot describe the influence this
                        girl at times exerted over me. When under its spell I seemed to be a
                        creature of her will, and my power to act voluntarily was paralyzed by a
                        strange force emanating from her marvellous vitality. I cannot describe it.
                        I tell you only the incontestable fact, and you may make out of it whatever
                        you can. I shall again in the course of this history have occasion to speak
                        of Dorothy's strange power, and how it was exerted over no less a
                        person than Queen Elizabeth.
                    "Ask Malcolm," repeated the girl, leaning coaxingly upon
                        her father's breast. But I was saved from uttering the lie I was
                        willing to tell; for, in place of asking me, as his daughter had desired,
                        Sir George demanded excitedly of Dorothy, "What have you in your
                        pocket that strikes against my knee?"
                    "Mother of Heaven!" exclaimed Dorothy in a whisper, quickly
                        stepping back from her father and slowly lifting her skirt while she reached
                        toward her pocket. Her manner was that of one almost bereft of consciousness
                        by sudden fright, and an expression of helplessness came over her face which
                        filled my heart with pity. She stood during a long tedious moment holding
                        with one hand the uplifted skirt, while with the other she clutched the key
                        in her pocket.
                    "What have you in your pocket?" demanded Sir George  with a terrible oath. "Bring it out,
                        girl. Bring it out, I I tell you."
                    Dorothy started to run from the room, but her father caught her by the wrist
                        and violently drew her to him.
                    "Bring it out, huzzy; it's the key to Bowling Green Gate.
                        Ah, I've lost my mind, have I? Blood of Christ! I have not lost my
                        mind yet, but I soon shall lose it at this rate," and he certainly
                        looked as if he would.
                    Poor frightened Dorothy was trying to take the key from her pocket, but she
                        was too slow to please her angry father, so he grasped the gown and tore a
                        great rent whereby the pocket was opened from top to bottom. Dorothy still
                        held the key in her hand, but upon the floor lay a piece of white paper
                        which had fallen out through the rent Sir George had made in the gown. He
                        divined the truth as if by inspiration. The note, he felt sure, was from
                        Dorothy's unknown lover. He did not move nor speak for a time, and
                        she stood as if paralyzed by fear. She slowly turned her face from her
                        father to me, and in a low tone spoke my name, "Malcolm."
                        Her voice was hardly louder than a whisper, but so piteous a cry for help I
                        have never heard from human lips. Then she stooped, intending to take the
                        letter from the floor, and Sir George drew back his arm as if he would
                        strike her with his clenched hand. She recoiled from him in terror, and he
                        took up the letter, unfolded it, and began to read:—
                    "Most gracious lady, I thank you for your letter, and with
                        God's help I will meet you at Bowling Green
                        Gate—" The girl could endure no more. She sprang with a
                        scream toward her father and tried to snatch the letter. Sir George drew
                        back, holding firmly to the paper. She followed him frantically, not to be
                        thrown off, and succeeded in clutching the letter. Sir George violently
                        thrust her from him. In the scuffle that ensued the letter was torn, and the
                        lower portion of the sheet remained in Dorothy's hand. She ran  to the fireplace, intending to thrust the
                        fragment into the fire, but she feared that her father might rescue it from
                        the the ashes. She glanced at the piece of paper, and saw that the part she
                        had succeeded in snatching from her father bore John's name. Sir
                        George strode hurriedly across the room toward her and she ran to me.
                    "Malcolm! Malcolm!" she cried in terror. The cry was like a
                        shriek. Then I saw her put the paper in her mouth. When she reached me she
                        threw herself upon my breast and clung to me with her arms about my neck.
                        She trembled as a single leaf among the thousands that deck a full-leaved
                        tree may tremble upon a still day, moved by a convulsive force within
                        itself. While she clung to me her glorious bust rose and fell piteously, and
                        her wondrous eyes dilated and shone with a marvellous light. The expression
                        was the output of her godlike vitality, strung to its greatest tension. Her
                        face was pale, but terror dominated all the emotions it expressed. Her fear,
                        however, was not for herself. The girl, who would have snapped her fingers
                        at death, saw in the discovery which her father was trying to make, loss to
                        her of more than life. That which she had possessed for less than one brief
                        hour was about to be taken from her. She had not enjoyed even one little
                        moment alone in which to brood her new-found love, and to caress the sweet
                        thought of it. The girl had but a brief instant of rest in my arms till Sir
                        George dragged her from me by his terrible strength.
                    "Where is the paper?" he cried in rage. "It
                        contained the fellow's signature."
                    "I have swallowed it, father, and you must cut me open to find it.
                        Doubtless that would be a pleasant task for you," answered Dorothy,
                        who was comparatively calm now that she knew her father could not discover
                        John's name. I believe Sir George in his frenzy would have killed
                        the girl had he then learned that the letter was from John Manners.
                    
                    "I command you to tell me this fellow's name,"
                        said Sir George, with a calmness born of tempest. Dorothy did not answer,
                        and Sir George continued: "I now understand how you came by the
                        golden heart. You lied to me and told me that Malcolm had given it to you.
                        Lie upon lie. In God's name I swear that I would rather father a
                        thief than a liar."
                    "I did give her the heart, Sir George," I said,
                        interrupting him. "It was my mother's." I had
                        caught the lying infection. But Sir George, in his violence, was a person to
                        incite lies. He of course had good cause for his anger. Dorothy had lied to
                        him. Of that there could be no doubt; but her deception was provoked by his
                        own conduct and by the masterful love that had come upon her. I truly
                        believe that prior to the time of her meeting with Manners she had never
                        spoken an untruth, nor since that time I also believe, except when driven to
                        do so by the same motive. Dorothy was not a thief, but I am sure she would
                        have stolen for the sake of her lover. She was gentle and tender to a degree
                        that only a woman can attain; but I believe she would have done murder in
                        cold blood for the sake of her love. Some few women there are in whose
                        hearts God has placed so great an ocean of love that when it reaches its
                        flood all other attributes of heart and soul and mind are ingulfed in its
                        mighty flow. Of this rare class was Dorothy.
                    "God is love," says the Book.
                    "The universe is God," says the philosopher.
                        "Therefore," as the mathematician would say,
                        "love is the universe." To that proposition Dorothy was a
                        corollary.
                    The servants were standing open-eyed about us in the kitchen.
                    "Let us go to the dining hall," I suggested. Sir George led
                        the way by the stone steps to the screens, and from the screens to the small
                        banquet hall, and I followed, leading Dorothy by the hand.
                    
                    The moment of respite from her father's furious attack gave her time
                        in which to collect her scattered senses.
                    When we reached the banquet hall, and after I had closed the door, Sir George
                        turned upon his daughter, and with oath upon oath demanded to know the name
                        of her lover. Dorothy stood looking to the floor and said nothing. Sir
                        George strode furiously to and fro across the room.
                    "Curse the day you were born, you wanton huzzy. Curse you! curse
                        you! Tell me the name of the man who wrote this letter," he cried,
                        holding toward her the fragment of paper. "Tell me his name or, I
                        swear it before God, I swear it upon my knighthood, I will have you flogged
                        in the upper court till you bleed. I would do it if you were fifty times my
                        child."
                    Then Dorothy awakened. The girl was herself again. Now it was only for
                        herself she had to fear.
                    Her heart kept saying, "This for his sake, this for his
                        sake." Out of her love came fortitude, and out of her fortitude
                        came action.
                    Her father's oath had hardly been spoken till the girl tore her
                        bodice from her shoulders. She threw the garment to the floor and
                        said:—
                    "I am ready for the whip, I am ready. Who is to do the deed, father,
                        you or the butcher? It must be done. You have sworn it, and I swear before
                        God and by my maidenhood that I will not tell you the name of the man who
                        wrote the letter. I love him, and before I will tell you his name or forego
                        his love for me, or before I will abate one jot or tittle of my love for
                        him, I will gladly die by the whip in your hand. I am ready for the whip,
                        father. I am ready. Let us have it over quickly."
                    The girl, whose shoulders were bare, took a few steps toward the door leading
                        to the upper court, but Sir George did not move. I was deeply affected by
                        the terrible scene, and I determined to prevent the flogging if to do so
                        should 
                        
                            "HER FATHER'S OATH HAD HARDLY BEEN
                                SPOKEN TILL THE GIRL TORE HER BODICE FROM HER
                                SHOULDERS."
                        
                         cost Sir George's life at my hands.
                        I would have killed him ere he should have laid a single lash of the whip
                        upon Dorothy's back.
                    "Father," continued the terrible girl, "are you
                        not going to flog me? Remember your oaths. Surely you would not be forsworn
                        before God and upon your knighthood. A forsworn Christian? A forsworn
                        knight? A forsworn Vernon? The lash, father, the lash—I am eager
                        for it."
                    Sir George stood in silence, and Dorothy continued to move toward the door.
                        Her face was turned backward over her shoulder to her father, and she
                        whispered the words, "Forsworn, forsworn, forsworn!"
                    As she put her hand on the latch the piteous old man held forth his arms
                        toward her and in a wail of agony cried: "Doll! Doll! My daughter!
                        My child! God help me!"
                    He covered his face with his hands, his great form shook for a moment as the
                        tree trembles before the fall, and he fell prone to the floor sobbing forth
                        the anguish of which his soul was full.
                    In an instant Dorothy was by her father's side holding his head upon
                        her lap. She covered his face with her kisses, and while the tears streamed
                        from her eyes she spoke incoherent words of love and repetence.
                    "I will tell you all, father; I will tell you all. I will give him
                        up; I will see him never again. I will try not to love him. Oh, father,
                        forgive me, forgive me. I will never again deceive you so long as I
                        live."
                    Truly the fate of an overoath is that it shall be broken. When one swears to
                        do too much, one performs too little.
                    I helped Sir George rise to his feet.
                    Dorothy, full of tenderness and in tears, tried to take his hand, but he
                        repulsed her rudely, and uttering terrible oaths coupled with her name
                        quitted the room with tottering steps.
                    When her father had gone Dorothy stood in revery for  a little time, and then looking toward the door through which
                        her father had just passed, she spoke as if to herself: "He does
                        not know. How fortunate!"
                    "But you said you would tell him," I suggested.
                        "You said you would give him up."
                    Dorothy was in a deep revery. She took her bodice from the floor and
                        mechanically put it on.
                    "I know I said I would tell my father, and I offered to
                        give—give him up," she replied; "but I will do
                        neither. Father would not meet my love with love. He would not forgive me,
                        nor would he accept my repentance when it was he who should have repented. I
                        was alarmed and grieved for father's sake when I said that I would
                        tell him about—about John, and would give him up." She was
                        silent and thoughtful for a little time. "Give him up?"
                        she cried defiantly. "No, not for my soul; not for ten thousand
                        thousand souls. When my father refused my love, he threw away the only
                        opportunity he shall ever have to learn from me John's name. That I
                        swear, and I shall never be forsworn. I asked father's forgiveness
                        when he should have begged for mine. Whip me in the courtyard, would he,
                        till I should bleed! Yet I was willing to forgive him, and he would not
                        accept my forgiveness. I was willing to forego John, who is more than life
                        to me; but my father would not accept my sacrifice. Truly will I never be so
                        great a fool the second time. Malcolm, I will not remain here to be the
                        victim of another insult such as my father put upon me to-day. There is no
                        law, human or divine, that gives to a parent the right to treat his daughter
                        as my father has used me. Before this day my conscience smote me when I
                        deceived him, and I suffered pain if I but thought of my father. But now,
                        thanks to his cruelty, I may be happy without remorse. Malcolm, if you
                        betray me, I will—I will kill you if I must follow you over the
                        world to do it."
                    
                    "Do you think that I deserve that threat from you,
                        Dorothy?" I asked.
                    "No, no, my dear friend, forgive me. I trust you," and she
                        caught up my hand and kissed it gently.
                    Dorothy and I remained in the banquet hall, seated upon the stone bench under
                        the blazoned window.
                    Soon Sir George returned, closely followed by two men, one of whom before
                        manacles such as were used to secure prisoners in the dungeon. Sir George
                        did not speak. He turned to the men and motioned with his hand toward
                        Dorothy. I sprang to my feet, intending to interfere by force, if need be,
                        to prevent the outrage; but before I could speak Lady Crawford hurriedly
                        entered the hall and ran to Sir George's side.
                    "Brother," she said, "old Bess has just told me
                        that you have given orders for Dorothy's confinement in the
                        dungeon. I could not believe Bess; but these men with irons lead me to
                        suspect that you really intend—"
                    "Do not interfere in affairs that do not concern you,"
                        replied Sir George, sullenly.
                    "But this does concern me greatly," said Aunt Dorothy,
                        "and if you send Doll to the dungeon, Madge and I will leave your
                        house and will proclaim your act to all England."
                    "The girl has disobeyed me and has lied to me,
                        and—"
                    "I care not what she has done, I shall leave your house and disown
                        you for my brother if you perpetrate this out-rage upon my niece. She is
                        dear to me as if she were my own child. Have I not brought her up since
                        babyhood? If you carry out this order, brother, I will leave Haddon Hall
                        forever."
                    "And I'll go with her," cried old Bess, who stood
                        at the door of the screens.
                    "And I, too," said Dawson, who was one of the men who had
                        entered with Sir George.
                    
                    "And I," cried the other man, throwing the manacles to the
                        floor, "I will leave your service."
                    Sir George took up the manacles and moved toward Dorothy.
                    "You may all go, every cursed one of you. I rule my own house, and I
                        will have no rebels in it. When I have finished with this perverse wench,
                        I'll not wait for you to go. I'll drive you all out and
                        you may go to—"
                    He was approaching Dorothy, but I stepped in front of him.
                    "This must not be, Sir George," said I, sternly.
                        "I shall not leave Haddon Hall, and I fear you not. I shall remain
                        here to protect your daughter and you from your own violence. You cannot put
                        me out of Haddon Hall; I will not go."
                    "Why cannot I put you out of Haddon Hall?" retorted Sir
                        George, whose rage by that time was frightful to behold.
                    "Because, sir, I am a better man and a better swordsman than you
                        are, and because you have not on all your estates a servant nor a retainer
                        who will not join me against you when I tell them the cause I
                        champion."
                    Dawson and his fellow stepped to my side significantly, and Sir George raised
                        the iron manacles as if intending to strike me. I did not move. At the same
                        moment Madge entered the room.
                    "Where is my uncle?" she asked.
                    Old Bess led her to Sir George. She spoke not a word, but placed her arms
                        gently about his neck and drew his face down to hers. Then she kissed him
                        softly upon the lips and said:—
                    "My uncle has never in all his life spoken in aught but kindness to
                        me, and now I beg him to be kind to Dorothy."
                    The heavy manacles fell clanking to the floor. Sir George placed his hand
                        caressingly upon Madge's head and turned from Dorothy.
                    
                    Lady Crawford then approached her brother and put her hand upon his arm,
                        saying:—
                    "Come with me, George, that I may speak to you in
                        private."
                    She moved toward the door by which she had entered, and Madge quietly took
                        her uncle's hand and led him after Lady Crawford. Within five
                        minutes Sir George, Aunt Dorothy, and Madge returned to the room.
                    "Dorothy?" said Madge in a low voice.
                    "Here I am, Madge," murmured Dorothy, who was sitting on
                        the bench by the blazoned window. Madge walked gropingly over to her cousin
                        and sat by her side, taking her hand. Then Lady Crawford spoke to
                        Dorothy:—
                    "Your father wishes me to say that you must go to your apartments in
                        Entrance Tower, and that you shall not leave them without his consent. He
                        also insists that I say to you if you make resistance or objection to this
                        decree, or if you attempt to escape, he will cause you to be manacled and
                        confined in the dungeon, and that no persuasion upon our part will lead him
                        from his purpose."
                    "Which shall it be?" asked Sir George, directing his
                        question to Lady Crawford.
                    Dorothy lifted her eyebrows, bit the corner of her lip, shrugged her
                        shoulders, and said:—
                    "Indeed, it makes no difference to me where you send me, father; I
                        am willing to do whatever will give you the greatest happiness. If you
                        consult my wishes, you will have me whipped in the courtyard till I bleed. I
                        should enjoy that more than anything else you can do. Ah, how tender is the
                        love of a father! It passeth understanding."
                    "Come to your apartments, Dorothy," said Lady Crawford,
                        anxious to separate the belligerents. "I have given your father my
                        word of honor that I will guard you and will keep you prisoner in your
                        rooms. Do you not pity me? I gave my promise only to save you from the  dungeon, and painful as the task will be, I
                        will keep my word to your father."
                    "Which shall it be, father?" asked Dorothy. "You
                        shall finish the task you began. I shall not help you in your good work by
                        making choice. You shall choose my place of imprisonment. Where shall it be?
                        Shall I go to my rooms or to the dungeon?"
                    "Go to your rooms," answered Sir George, "and let
                        me never see—" but Sir George did not finish the sentence.
                        He hurriedly left the hall, and Dorothy cheerfully went to imprisonment in
                        Entrance Tower.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    MALCOLM NO. 2
                    SIR GEORGE had done a bad day's work. He had hardened
                        Dorothy's heart against himself and had made it more tender toward
                        John. Since her father had treated her so cruelly, she felt she was at
                        liberty to give her heart to John without stint. So when once she was alone
                        in her room the flood-gates of her heart were opened, and she poured forth
                        the ineffable tenderness and the passionate longings with which she was
                        filled. With solitude came the memory of John's words and
                        John's kisses. She recalled every movement, every word, every tone,
                        every sensation. She gave her soul unbridled license to feast with joyous
                        ecstasy upon the thrilling memories. All thoughts of her father's
                        cruelty were drowned in a sea of bliss. She forgot him. In truth, she forgot
                        everything but her love and her lover. That evening, after she had assisted
                        Madge to prepare for bed, as was her custom, Dorothy stood before her mirror
                        making her toilet for the night. In the flood of her newly found ecstasy she
                        soon forgot that Madge was in the room.
                    Dorothy stood before her mirror with her face near to its polished surface,
                        that she might scrutinize every feature, and, if possible, verify
                        John's words.
                    "He called me 'my beauty' twice," she
                        thought, "and 'my Aphrodite' once." Then
                        her thoughts grew into unconscious words, and she spoke aloud:—
                    
                    "I wish he could see me now." And she blushed at the
                        thought, as she should have done. "He acted as if he meant all he
                        said," she thought. "I know he meant it. I trust him
                        entirely. But if he should change? Holy Mother, I believe I should die. But
                        I do believe him. He would not lie, even though he is not a
                        Vernon."
                    With thoughts of the scene between herself and her father at the gate, there
                        came a low laugh, half of amusement, half of contentment, and the laugh
                        meant a great deal that was to be regretted; it showed a sad change in
                        Dorothy's heart. But yesterday the memory of her deceit would have
                        filled her with grief. To-night she laughed at it. Ah, Sir George! Pitiable
                        old man! While your daughter laughs, you sigh and groan and moan, and your
                        heart aches with pain and impotent rage. Even drink fails to bring comfort
                        to you. I say impotent rage, because Dorothy is out of your reach, and as
                        surely as the sun rises in the east she is lost to you forever. The years of
                        protection and tender love which you have given to her go for nothing. Now
                        comes the son of your mortal enemy, and you are but an obstruction in her
                        path. Your existence is forgotten while she revels in the memory of his
                        words, his embraces, and his lips. She laughs while you suffer, in obedience
                        to the fate that Heaven has decreed for those who bring children into this
                        world.
                    Who is to blame for the pitiable mite which children give in return for a
                        parent's flood of love? I do not know, but of this I am sure: if
                        parents would cease to feel that they own their children in common with
                        their horses, their estates, and their cattle; if they would not, as many do
                        in varying degrees, treat their children as their property, the return of
                        love would be far more adequate than it is.
                    Dorothy stood before her mirror plaiting her hair. Her head was turned
                        backward a little to one side that she  might
                        more easily reach the great red golden skein. In that entrancing attitude
                        the reflection of the nether lip of which John had spoken so fondly came
                        distinctly to Dorothy's notice. She paused in the braiding of her
                        hair and held her face close to the mirror that she might inspect the lip,
                        whose beauty John had so ardently admired. She turned her face from one side
                        to the other that she might view it from all points, and then she thrust it
                        forward with a pouting movement that would have set the soul of a mummy
                        pulsing if he had ever been a man. She stood for a moment in contemplation
                        of the full red lip, and then resting her hands upon the top of the mirror
                        table leaned forward and kissed its reflected image.
                    Again forgetfulness fell upon her and her thoughts grew into words.
                    "He was surely right concerning my lower lip," she said,
                        speaking to herself. Then without the least apparent relevance, "He
                        had been smoking." Again her words broke her revery, and she took
                        up the unfinished braid of hair. When she did so, she caught a glimpse of
                        her arm which was as perfectly rounded as the fairest marble of Phidias. She
                        stretched the arm to its full length that the mirror might reflect its
                        entire beauty. Again she thought aloud: "I wish he could see my
                        arm. Perhaps some day—" But the words ceased, and in their
                        place came a flush that spread from her hair to her full white throat, and
                        she quickly turned the mirror away so that even it should not behold her
                        beauty.
                    You see after all is told Dorothy was modest.
                    She finished her toilet without the aid of her mirror; but before she
                        extinguished the candle she stole one more fleeting glance at its polished
                        surface, and again came the thought, "Perhaps some
                        day—" Then she covered the candle, and amid enfolding
                        darkness lay down beside Madge, full of thoughts and sensations that made
                        her  tremble; for they were strange to her,
                        and she knew not what they meant.
                    Dorothy thought that Madge was asleep, but after a few minutes the latter
                        said:—
                    "Tell me, Dorothy, who was on fire?"
                    "Who was on fire?" asked Dorothy in surprise.
                        "What do you mean, Madge?"
                    "I hope they have not been trying to burn any one," said
                        Madge.
                    "What do you mean? "again asked Dorothy.
                    "You said 'He had been smoking,'
                        "responded Madge.
                    "Oh," laughed Dorothy, "that is too comical. Of
                        course not, dear one. I was speaking of—of a man who had been
                        smoking tobacco, as Malcolm does." Then she explained the process
                        of tobacco smoking.
                    "Yes, I know," answered Madge. "I saw
                        Malcolm's pipe. That is, I held it in my hands for a moment while
                        he explained to me its use."
                    Silence ensued for a moment, and Madge again spoke:—
                    "What was it he said about your lower lip, and who was he? I did not
                        learn why Uncle George wished to confine you in the dungeon. I am so sorry
                        that this trouble has come upon you."
                    "Trouble, Madge?" returned Dorothy. "Truly, you do
                        not understand. No trouble has come upon me. The greatest happiness of my
                        life has come to pass. Don't pity me. Envy me. My happiness is so
                        sweet and so great that it frightens me."
                    "How can you be happy while your father treats you so
                        cruelly?" asked Madge.
                    "His conduct makes it possible for my happiness to be
                        complete," returned Dorothy. "If he were kind to me, I
                        should be unhappy, but his cruelty leaves me free to be as happy as I may.
                        For my imprisonment in this room I care not a farthing. It does not trouble
                        me, for when I wish  to see—see him
                        again, I shall do so. I don't know at this time just how I shall
                        effect it; but be sure, sweet one, I shall find a way." There was
                        no doubt in Madge's mind that Dorothy would find a way.
                    "Who is he, Dorothy? You may trust me. Is he the gentleman whom we
                        met at Derby-town?"
                    "Yes," answered Dorothy, "he is Sir John
                        Manners."
                    "Dorothy!" exclaimed Madge in tones of fear.
                    "It could not be worse, could it, Madge?" said Dorothy.
                    "Oh, Dorothy!" was the only response.
                    "You will not betray me?" asked Dorothy, whose alarm made
                        her suspicious.
                    "You know whether or not I will betray you," answered
                        Madge.
                    "Indeed, I know, else I should not have told you my secret. Oh, you
                        should see him, Madge; he is the most beautiful person living. The poor soft
                        beauty of the fairest woman grows pale beside him. You cannot know how
                        wonderfully beautiful a man may be. You have never seen one."
                    "Yes, I have seen many men, and I well remember their appearance. I
                        was twelve years old, you know, when I lost my sight."
                    "But, Madge," said Dorothy, out of the fulness of her newly
                        acquired knowledge, "a girl of twelve cannot see a
                        man."
                    "No woman sees with her eyes the man whom she loves,"
                        answered Madge, quietly.
                    "How does she see him?" queried Dorothy.
                    "With her heart."
                    "Have you, too, learned that fact?" asked Dorothy.
                    Madge hesitated for a moment and murmured "Yes."
                    "Who is he, dear one?" whispered Dorothy.
                    "I may not tell even you, Dorothy," replied Madge,  "because it can come to nothing. The
                        love is all on my part."
                    Dorothy insisted, but Madge begged her not to ask for her secret.
                    "Please don't even make a guess concerning him,"
                        said Madge. "It is my shame and my joy."
                    It looked as if this malady which had fallen upon Dorothy were like the
                        plague that infects a whole family if one but catch it.
                    Dorothy, though curious, was generous, and remained content with
                        Madge's promise that she should be the first one to hear the sweet
                        story if ever the time should come to tell it.
                    "When did you see him?" asked Madge, who was more willing
                        to receive than to impart intelligence concerning affairs of the heart.
                    "To-day," answered Dorothy. Then she told Madge about the
                        scenes at the gate and described what had-happened between her and Sir
                        George in the kitchen and banquet hall.
                    "How could you tell your father such a falsehood?" asked
                        Madge in consternation.
                    "It was very easy. You see I had to do it. I never lied until
                        recently. But oh, Madge, this is a terrible thing to come upon a
                        girl!" "This" was somewhat indefinite, but Madge
                        understood, and perhaps it will be clear to you what Dorothy meant. The girl
                        continued: "She forgets all else. It will drive her to do anything,
                        however wicked. For some strange cause, under its influence she does not
                        feel the wrong she does. It acts upon a girl's sense of right and
                        wrong as poppy juice acts on pain. Before it came upon me in—in
                        such terrible force, I believe I should have become ill had I told my father
                        a falsehood. I might have equivocated, or I might have evaded the truth in
                        some slight degree, but I could not have told a lie. But now it is as easy
                        as winking."
                    
                    "And I fear, Dorothy," responded Madge, "that
                        winking is very easy for you."
                    "Yes," answered candid Dorothy with a sigh.
                    "It must be a very great evil," said Madge,
                        deploringly.
                    "One might well believe so," answered Dorothy,
                        "but it is not. One instinctively knows it to be the essence of all
                        that is good."
                    Madge asked, "Did Sir John tell you that—that
                        he—"
                    "Yes," said Dorothy, covering her face even from the
                        flickering rays of the rushlight.
                    "Did you tell him?"
                    "Yes," came in reply from under the coverlet.
                    After a short silence Dorothy uncovered her face.
                    "Yes," she said boldly, "I told him plainly; nor
                        did I feel shame in so doing. It must be that this strange love makes one
                        brazen. You, Madge, would die with shame had you sought any man as I have
                        sought John. I would not for worlds tell you how bold and over-eager I have
                        been."
                    "Oh, Dorothy!" was all the answer Madge gave.
                    "You would say 'Oh, Dorothy,' many times if you
                        knew all." Another pause ensued, after which Madge
                        asked:—
                    "How did you know he had been smoking?"
                    "I—I tasted it," responded Dorothy.
                    "How could you taste it? I hope you did not
                        smoke?" returned Madge in wonderment.
                    Dorothy smothered a little laugh, made two or three vain attempts to explain,
                        tenderly put her arms about Madge's neck and kissed her.
                    "Oh, Dorothy, that certainly was wrong," returned Madge,
                        although she had some doubts in her own mind upon the point.
                    "Well, if it is wrong," answered Dorothy, sighing,
                        "I don't care to live."
                    
                    "Dorothy, I fear you are an immodest girl," said Madge.
                    "I fear I am, but I don't care—John, John,
                        John!"
                    "How came he to speak of your lower lip?" asked Madge.
                        "It certainly is very beautiful; but how came he to speak of
                        it?"
                    "It was after—after—once," responded
                        Dorothy.
                    "And your arm," continued remorseless Madge, "how
                        came he to speak of it? You surely did not—"
                    "No, no, Madge; I hope you do not think I would show him my arm. I
                        have not come to that. I have a poor remnant of modesty left; but the Holy
                        Mother only knows how long it will last. No, he did not speak of my
                        arm."
                    "You spoke of your arm when you were before the mirror,"
                        responded Madge, "and you said, 'Perhaps some
                        day—'"
                    "Oh, don't, Madge. Please spare me. I indeed fear I am very
                        wicked. I will say a little prayer to the Virgin to-night. She will hear me,
                        even if I am wicked; and she will help me to become good and modest
                        again."
                    The girls went to sleep, and Dorothy dreamed "John, John,
                        John," and slumbered happily.
                    That part of the building of Haddon Hall which lies to the northward, west of
                        the kitchen, consists of rooms according to the following
                        plan:—
                    The two rooms in Entrance Tower over the great doors at the northwest corner
                        of Haddon Hall were occupied by Dorothy and Madge. The west room overlooking
                        the Wye was their parlor. The next room to the east was their bedroom. The
                        room next their bedroom was occupied by Lady Crawford. Beyond that was Sir
                        George's bedroom, and east of his room was one occupied by the
                        pages and two retainers. To enter Dorothy's apartments one must
                        pass through all the other rooms I have mentioned. Her windows were
                        twenty-five feet from the ground and were 
                        barred with iron. After Dorothy's sentence of imprisonment, Lady
                        Crawford, or some trusted person in her place, was always on guard in Aunt
                        Dorothy's room to prevent Dorothy's escape, and guards
                        were also stationed in the retainer's room for the same purpose. I
                        tell you this that you may understand the difficulties Dorothy would have to
                        overcome before she could see John, as she declared to Madge she would. But
                        my opinion is that there are no limits to the resources of a wilful girl.
                        Dorothy saw Manners. The plan she conceived to bring about the desired end
                        was so seemingly impossible, and her execution of it was so adroit and
                        daring, that I believe it will of itself interest you in the telling, aside
                        from the bearing it has upon this history. No sane man would have deemed it
                        possible, but this wilful girl carried it to fruition. She saw no chance of
                        failure. To her it seemed a simple, easy matter. Therefore she said with
                        confidence and truth, "I will see him when I wish to."
                    Let me tell you of it.
                    During Dorothy's imprisonment I spent an hour or two each evening
                        with her and Madge at their parlor in the tower. The windows of the room, as
                        I have told you, faced westward, overlooking the Wye, and disclosed the
                        beautiful, undulating scenery of Overhaddon Hill in the distance.
                    One afternoon when Madge was not present Dorothy asked me to bring her a
                        complete suit of my garments,—boots, hose, trunks, waistcoat, and
                        doublet. I laughed, and asked her what she wanted with them, but she refused
                        to tell me. She insisted, however, and I promised to fetch the garments to
                        her. Accordingly the next evening I delivered the bundle to her hands.
                        Within a week she returned them all, saving the boots. Those she
                        kept—for what reason I could not guess.
                    Lady Crawford, by command of Sir George, carried in  her reticule the key of the door which opened from her own
                        room into Sir George's apartments, and the door was always kept
                        locked.
                    Dorothy had made several attempts to obtain possession of the key, with
                        intent, I believe, of making a bold dash for liberty. But Aunt Dorothy,
                        mindful of Sir George's wrath and fearing him above all men, acted
                        faithfully her part of gaoler. She smiled, half in sadness, when she told me
                        of the girl's simplicity in thinking she could hoodwink a person of
                        Lady Crawford's age, experience, and wisdom. The old lady took
                        great pride in her own acuteness. The distasteful task of gaoler, however,
                        pained good Aunt Dorothy, whose simplicity was, in truth, no match for
                        Dorothy's love-quickened cunning. But Aunt Dorothy's sense
                        of duty and her fear of Sir George impelled her to keep good and
                        conscientious guard.
                    One afternoon near the hour of sunset I knocked for admission at Lady
                        Crawford's door. When I had entered she locked the door carefully
                        after me, and replaced the key in the reticule which hung at her girdle.
                    I exchanged a few words with her Ladyship, and entered Dorothy's
                        bedroom, where I left my cloak, hat, and sword. The girls were in the
                        parlor. When I left Lady Crawford she again took her chair near the candle,
                        put on her great bone-rimmed spectacles, and was soon lost to the world in
                        the pages of "Sir Philip de Comynges." The dear old lady
                        was near-sighted and was slightly deaf. Dorothy's bedroom, like
                        Lady Crawford's apartments, was in deep shadow. In it there was no
                        candle.
                    My two fair friends were seated in one of the west windows watching the
                        sunset. They rose, and each gave me her hand and welcomed me with the rare
                        smiles I had learned to expect from them. I drew a chair near to the window
                        and we talked and laughed together merrily for a few minutes. After a little
                        time Dorothy excused herself, 
                        
                            "SHE STOOD IN PASSIVE SILENCE."
                        
                         saying that she would leave Madge and me
                        while she went into the bedroom to make a change in her apparel.
                    Madge and I sat for a few minutes at the window, and I said, "You
                        have not been out to-day for exercise."
                    I had ridden to Derby with Sir George and had gone directly on my return to
                        see my two young friends. Sir George had not returned.
                    "Will you walk with me about the room?" I asked.
                    My real reason for making the suggestion was that I longed to clasp her hand,
                        and to feel its velvety touch, since I should lead her if we walked.
                    She quickly rose in answer to my invitation and offered me her hand. As we
                        walked to and fro a deep, sweet contentment filled my heart, and I felt that
                        any words my lips could coin would but mar the ineffable silence.
                    Never shall I forget the soft light of that gloaming as the darkening red
                        rays of the sinking sun shot through the panelled window across the floor
                        and illumined the tapestry upon the opposite wall.
                    The tapestries of Haddon Hall are among the most beautiful in England, and
                        the picture upon which the sun's rays fell was that of a lover
                        kneeling at the feet of his mistress. Madge and I passed and repassed the
                        illumined scene, and while it was softly fading into shadow a great flood of
                        tender love for the girl whose soft hand I held swept over my heart. It was
                        the noblest motive I had ever felt.
                    Moved by an impulse I could not resist, I stopped in our walk, and falling to
                        my knee pressed her hand ardently to my lips. Madge did not withdraw her
                        hand, nor did she attempt to raise me. She stood in passive silence. The
                        sun's rays had risen as the sun had sunk, and the light was falling
                        like a holy radiance from the gates of paradise upon the girl's
                        head. I looked upward, and never in my eyes had woman's face
                        appeared so fair and saintlike.  She seemed to
                        see me and to feel the silent outpouring of my affection. I rose to my feet,
                        and clasping both her hands spoke only her name
                        "Madge."
                    She answered simply, "Malcolm, is it possible?" And her
                        face, illumined by the sunlight and by the love-god, told me all else. Then
                        I gently took her to my arms and kissed her lips again and again and again,
                        and Madge by no sign nor gesture said me nay. She breathed a happy sigh, her
                        head fell upon my breast, and all else of good that the world could offer
                        compared with her was dross to me.
                    We again took our places by the window, since now I might hold her hand
                        without an excuse. By the window we sat, speaking little, through the
                        happiest hour of my life. How dearly do I love to write about it, and to
                        lave my soul in the sweet aromatic essence of its memory. But my rhapsodies
                        must have an end.
                    When Dorothy left me with Madge at the window she entered her bedroom and
                        quickly arrayed herself in garments which were facsimiles of those I had
                        lent her. Then she put her feet into my boots and donned my hat and cloak.
                        She drew my gauntleted gloves over her hands, buckled my sword to her slim
                        waist, pulled down the broad rim of my soft beaver hat over her face, and
                        turned up the collar of my cloak. Then she adjusted about her chin and upper
                        lip a black chin beard and moustachio, which she had in some manner
                        contrived to make, and, in short, prepared to enact the rôle of Malcolm
                        Vernon before her watchful gaoler, Aunt Dorothy.
                    While sitting silently with Madge I heard the clanking of my sword against
                        the oak floor in Dorothy's bedroom. I supposed she had been toying
                        with it and had let it fall. She was much of a child, and nothing could
                        escape her curiosity. Then I heard the door open into Aunt
                        Dorothy's apartments. I whispered to Madge requesting her to remain
                        silently by the window, and then I stepped 
                        softly over to the door leading into the bedroom. I noiselessly opened the
                        door and entered. From my dark hiding-place in Dorothy's bedroom I
                        witnessed a scene in Aunt Dorothy's room which filled me with
                        wonder and suppressed laughter. Striding about in the shadow-darkened
                        portions of Lady Crawford's apartment was my other self, Malcolm
                        No. 2, created from the flesh and substance of Dorothy Vernon.
                    The sunlight was yet abroad, though into Lady Crawford's room its
                        slanting rays but dimly entered at that hour, and the apartment was in deep
                        shadow, save for the light of one flickering candle, close to the flame of
                        which the old lady was holding the pages of the book she was laboriously
                        perusing.
                    The girl held her hand over her mouth trumpet-wise that her voice might be
                        deepened, and the swagger with which she strode about the room was the most
                        graceful and ludicrous movement I ever beheld. I wondered if she thought she
                        was imitating my walk, and I vowed that if her step were a copy of mine, I
                        would straightway amend my pace.
                    "What do you read, Lady Crawford?" said my cloak and hat,
                        in tones that certainly were marvellously good imitations of my voice.
                    "What do you say, Malcolm?" asked the deaf old lady, too
                        gentle to show the ill-humor she felt because of the interruption to her
                        reading.
                    "I asked what do you read?" repeated Dorothy.
                    "The 'Chronicle of Sir Philip de
                        Comynges,'" responded Lady Crawford. "Have you
                        read it? It is a rare and interesting history."
                    "Ah, indeed, it is a rare book, a rare book. I have read it many
                        times." There was no need for that little fabrication, and it
                        nearly brought Dorothy into trouble.
                    "What part of the 'Chronicle' do you best
                        like?" asked  Aunt Dorothy, perhaps
                        for lack of anything else to say. Here was trouble already for Malcolm No.
                        2.
                    "That is hard for me to say. I so well like it all.
                        Perhaps—ah—perhaps I prefer the—the
                        ah—the middle portion."
                    "Ah, you like that part which tells the story of Mary of
                        Burgundy," returned Aunt Dorothy. "Oh, Malcolm, I know
                        upon what theme you are always thinking—the ladies, the
                        ladies."
                    "Can the fair Lady Crawford chide me for that?" my second
                        self responded in a gallant style of which I was really proud. "She
                        who has caused so much of that sort of thought surely must know that a
                        gentleman's mind cannot be better employed
                        than—"
                    "Malcolm, you are incorrigible. But it is well for a gentleman to
                        keep in practice in such matters, even though he have but an old lady to
                        practise on."
                    "They like it, even if it be only practice, don't
                        they?" said Dorothy, full of the spirit of mischief.
                    "I thank you for nothing, Sir Malcolm Vernon," retorted
                        Aunt Dorothy with a toss of her head. "I surely don't
                        value your practice, as you call it, one little farthing's
                        worth."
                    But Malcolm No. 2, though mischievously inclined, was much quicker of wit
                        than Malcolm No. I, and she easily extricated herself.
                    "I meant that gentlemen like it, Lady Crawford."
                    "Oh!" replied Lady Crawford, again taking up her book.
                        "I have been reading Sir Philip's account of the death of
                        your fair Mary of Burgundy. Do you remember the cause of her
                        death?"
                    Malcolm No. 2, who had read Sir Philip so many times, was compelled to admit
                        that he did not remember the cause of Mary's death.
                    "You did not read the book with attention," replied Lady
                             Crawford. "Sir Philip says that
                        Mary of Burgundy died from an excess of modesty."
                    "That disease will never depopulate England," was the
                        answer that came from my garments, much to my chagrin.
                    "Sir Malcolm," exclaimed the old lady, "I never
                        before heard so ungallant a speech from your
                        lips."—"And," thought I, "she
                        never will hear its like from me."
                    "Modesty," continued Lady Crawford, "may not be
                        valued so highly by young women nowadays as it was in the time of my youth,
                        but—"
                    "I am sure it is not," interrupted Dorothy.
                    "But," continued Lady Crawford, "the young women
                        of England are modest and seemly in their conduct, and they do not deserve
                        to be spoken of in ungallant jest."
                    I trembled lest Dorothy should ruin my reputation for gallantry.
                    "Do you not," said Lady Crawford, "consider
                        Dorothy and Madge to be modest, well-behaved maidens?"
                    "Madge! Ah, surely she is all that a maiden should be. She is a
                        saint, but as to Dorothy—well, my dear Lady Crawford, I predict
                        another end for her than death from modesty. I thank Heaven the disease in
                        its mild form does not kill. Dorothy has it mildly," then under her
                        breath, "if at all."
                    The girl's sense of humor had vanquished her caution, and for the
                        moment it caused her to forget even the reason for her disguise.
                    "You do not speak fairly of your cousin Dorothy," retorted
                        Lady Crawford. "She is a modest girl, and I love her
                        deeply."
                    "Her father would not agree with you," replied Dorothy.
                    "Perhaps not," responded the aunt. "Her
                        father's conduct causes me great pain and grief."
                    "It also causes me pain," said Dorothy, sighing.
                    "But, Malcolm," continued the old lady, putting down  her book and turning with quickened interest
                        toward my other self, "who, suppose you, is the man with whom
                        Dorothy has become so strangely entangled?"
                    "I cannot tell for the life of me," answered Malcolm No. 2.
                        "Surely a modest girl would not act as she does."
                    "Surely a modest girl would," replied Aunt Dorothy,
                        testily. "Malcolm, you know nothing of women."
                    "Spoken with truth," thought I.
                    The old lady continued: "Modesty and love have nothing whatever to
                        do with each other. When love comes in at the door, modesty flies out at the
                        window. I do pity my niece with all my heart, and in good truth I wish I
                        could help her, though of course I would not have her know my feeling. I
                        feign severity toward her, but I do not hesitate to tell you that I am
                        greatly interested in her romance. She surely is deeply in
                        love."
                    "That is a true word, Aunt Dorothy," said the love-lorn
                        young woman. "I am sure she is fathoms deep in love."
                    "Nothing," said Lady Crawford, "but a great
                        passion would have impelled her to act as she did. Why, even Mary of
                        Burgundy, with all her modesty, won the husband she wanted, ay, and had him
                        at the cost of half her rich domain."
                    "I wonder if Dorothy will ever have the man she wants?"
                        said Malcolm, sighing in a manner entirely new to him.
                    "No," answered the old lady, "I fear there is no
                        hope for Dorothy. I wonder who he is? Her father intends that she shall soon
                        marry Lord Stanley. Sir George told me as much this morning when he started
                        for Derby-town to arrange for the signing of the marriage contract within a
                        day or two. He had a talk yesterday with Dorothy. She, I believe, has
                        surrendered to the inevitable, and again there is good feeling between her
                        and my brother."
                    Dorothy tossed her head expressively.
                    
                    "It is a good match," continued Lady Crawford, "a
                        good match, Malcolm. I pity Dorothy; but it is my duty to guard her, and I
                        shall do it faithfully."
                    "My dear Lady Crawford," said my hat and cloak,
                        "your words and feelings do great credit to your heart. But have
                        you ever thought that your niece is a very wilful girl, and that she is full
                        of disturbing expedients? Now I am willing to wager my beard that she will,
                        sooner than you suspect, see her lover. And I am also willing to lay a wager
                        that she will marry the man of her choice despite all the watchfulness of
                        her father and yourself. Keep close guard over her, my lady, or she will
                        escape."
                    Lady Crawford laughed. "She shall not escape. Have no fear of that,
                        Malcolm. The key to the door is always safely locked in my reticule. No girl
                        can outwit me. I am too old to be caught unawares by a mere child like
                        Dorothy. It makes me laugh, Malcolm—although I am sore at heart for
                        Dorothy's sake—it makes me laugh, with a touch of tears,
                        when I think of poor simple Dorothy's many little artifices to gain
                        possession of this key. They are amusing and pathetic. Poor child! But I am
                        too old to be duped by a girl, Malcolm. I am too old. She has no chance to
                        escape."
                    I said to myself: "No one has ever become too old to be duped by a
                        girl who is in love. Her wits grow keen as the otter's fur grows
                        thick for the winter's need. I do not know your niece's
                        plan; but if I mistake not, Aunt Dorothy, you will in one respect, at least,
                        soon be rejuvenated."
                    "I am sure Lady Crawford is right in what she says," spoke
                        my other self, "and Sir George is fortunate in having for his
                        daughter a guardian who cannot be hoodwinked and who is true to a
                        distasteful trust. I would the trouble were over and that Dorothy were well
                        married."
                    "So wish I, Malcolm, with all my heart," replied Aunt
                        Dorothy.
                    
                    After a brief pause in the conversation Malcolm No. 2 said:—
                    "I must now take my leave. Will you kindly unlock the door and
                        permit me to say good night?"
                    "If you must go," answered my lady, glad enough to be left
                        alone with her beloved Sir Philip. Then she unlocked the door.
                    "Keep good watch, my dear aunt," said Malcolm. "I
                        greatly fear that Dorothy—" but the door closed on the
                        remainder of the sentence and on Dorothy Vernon.
                    "Nonsense!" ejaculated the old lady somewhat impatiently.
                        "Why should he fear for Dorothy? I hope I shall not again be
                        disturbed." And soon she was deep in the pages of her book.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX
                    A TRYST AT BOWLING
                            GREEN GATE
                    
                    I WAS at a loss what course to pursue, and I remained for a moment in
                        puzzling thought. I went back to Madge, and after closing the door, told her
                        of all I had seen. She could not advise me, and of course she was deeply
                        troubled and concerned. After deliberating, I determined to speak to Aunt
                        Dorothy that she might know what had happened. So I opened the door and
                        walked into Lady Crawford's presence. After viewing my
                        lady's back for a short time, I said:—
                    "I cannot find my hat, cloak, and sword. I left them in
                        Dorothy's bedroom. Has any one been here since I
                        entered?"
                    The old lady turned quickly upon me, "Since you entered?"
                        she cried in wonderment and consternation. "Since you left, you
                        mean. Did you not leave this room a few minutes ago? What means this? How
                        found you entrance without the key?"
                    "I did not leave this room, Aunt Dorothy; you see I am
                        here," I responded.
                    "Who did leave? Your wraith? Some one—Dorothy!"
                        screamed the old lady in terror. "That girl!!—Holy Virgin!
                        where is she?"
                    Lady Crawford hastened to Dorothy's room and returned to me in great
                        agitation.
                    "Were you in the plot?" she demanded angrily.
                    
                    "No more than were you, Lady Crawford," I replied, telling
                        the exact truth. If I were accessory to Dorothy's crime, it was
                        only as a witness and Aunt Dorothy had seen as much as I.
                    I continued: "Dorothy left Lady Madge and me at the window, saying
                        she wished to make a change in her garments. I was watching the sunset and
                        talking with Lady Madge."
                    Lady Crawford, being full of concern about the main
                        event,—Dorothy's escape,—was easily satisfied
                        that I was not accessory before the fact.
                    "What shall I do, Malcolm? What shall I do? Help me, quickly. My
                        brother will return in the morning—perhaps he will return
                        to-night—and he will not believe that I have not intentionally
                        permitted Dorothy to leave the Hall. I have of late said so much to him on
                        behalf of the girl that he suspects me already of being in sympathy with
                        her. He will not believe me when I tell him that I have been duped. The
                        ungrateful, selfish girl! How could she so unkindly return my
                        affection!"
                    The old lady began to weep.
                    I did not believe that Dorothy intended to leave Haddon Hall permanently. I
                        felt confident she had gone out only to meet John, and was sure she would
                        soon return. On the strength of that opinion I said: "If you fear
                        that Sir George will not believe you—he certainly will blame
                        you—would it not be better to admit Dorothy quietly when she
                        returns and say nothing to any one concerning the escapade? I will remain
                        here in these rooms, and when she returns I will depart, and the guards will
                        never suspect that Dorothy has left the Hall."
                    "If she will but return," wailed Aunt Dorothy, "I
                        shall be only too glad to admit her and to keep silent."
                    "I am sure she will," I answered. "Leave orders
                        with the guard at Sir George's door to admit me at any time  during the night, and Dorothy will come in
                        without being recognized. Her disguise must be very complete if she could
                        deceive you."
                    "Indeed, her disguise is complete," replied the tearful old
                        lady.
                    Dorothy's disguise was so complete and her resemblance to me had
                        been so well contrived that she met with no opposition from the guards in
                        the retainer's room nor from the porter. She walked out upon the
                        terrace where she strolled for a short time. Then she climbed over the wall
                        at the stile back of the terrace and took her way up Bowling Green Hill
                        toward the gate. She sauntered leisurely until she was out of sight of the
                        Hall. Then gathering up her cloak and sword she sped along the steep path to
                        the hill crest and thence to the gate.
                    Soon after the first day of her imprisonment she had sent a letter to John by
                        the hand of Jennie Faxton, acquainting him with the details of all that had
                        happened. In her letter, among much else, she said:—
                    "My true love, I beg you to haunt with your presence Bowling Green
                        Gate each day at the hour of sunset. I cannot tell you when I shall be there
                        to meet you, or surely I would do so now. But be there I will. Let no doubt
                        of that disturb your mind. It does not lie in the power of man to keep me
                        from you. That is, it lies in the power of but one man, you, my love and my
                        lord, and I fear not that you will use your power to that end. So it is that
                        I beg you to wait for me at sunset hour each day near by Bowling Green Gate.
                        You may be caused to wait for me a long weary time; but one day, sooner or
                        later, I shall go to you, and then—ah, then, if it be in my power
                        to reward your patience, you shall have no cause for
                        complaint."
                    When Dorothy reached the gate she found it securely locked. She peered
                        eagerly through the bars, hoping to  see John.
                        She tried to shake the heavy iron structure to assure herself that it could
                        not be opened.
                    "Ah, well," she sighed, "I suppose the reason love
                        laughs at locksmiths is because he—or she—can
                        climb."
                    Then she climbed the gate and sprang to the ground on the Devonshire side of
                        the wall.
                    "What will John think when he sees me in this attire?" she
                        said half aloud. "Malcolm's cloak serves but poorly to
                        cover me, and I shall instead be covered with shame and confusion when John
                        comes. I fear he will think I have disgraced myself." Then, with a
                        sigh, "But necessity knows no raiment."
                    She strode about near the gate for a few minutes, wishing that she were
                        indeed a man, save for one fact: if she were not a woman, John would not
                        love her, and, above all, she could not love John. The fact that she could
                        and did love John appealed to Dorothy as the highest, sweetest privilege
                        that Heaven or earth could offer to a human being.
                    The sun had sunk in the west, and his faint parting glory was but dimly to be
                        seen upon a few small clouds that floated above Overhaddon Hill. The moon
                        was past its half; and the stars, still yellow and pale from the lingering
                        glare of day, waited eagerly to give their twinkling help in lighting the
                        night. The forest near the gate was dense, and withal the fading light of
                        the sun and the dawning beams of the moon and stars, deep shadow enveloped
                        Dorothy and all the scene about her. The girl was disappointed when she did
                        not see Manners, but she was not vexed. There was but one person in all the
                        world toward whom she held a patient, humble attitude—John. If he,
                        in his greatness, goodness, and condescension, designed to come and meet so
                        poor a person as Dorothy Vernon, she would be thankful and happy; if he did
                        not come, she would be sorrowful. His will was her will, and she would  come again and again until she should find
                        him waiting for her, and he should stoop to lift her into heaven.
                    If there is a place in all the earth where red warm blood counts for its full
                        value, it is in a pure woman's veins. Through self-fear it brings
                        to her a proud reserve toward all mankind till the right one comes. Toward
                        him it brings an eager humbleness that is the essence and the life of Heaven
                        and of love. Poets may praise snowy women as they will, but the compelling
                        woman is she of the warm blood. The snowy woman is the lifeless seed, the
                        rainless cloud, the unmagnetic lodestone, the drossful iron. The great laws
                        of nature affect her but passively. If there is aught in the saying of the
                        ancients, "The best only in nature can survive," the day
                        of her extermination will come. Fire is as chaste as snow, and infinitely
                        more comforting.
                    Dorothy's patience was not to be tried for long. Five minutes after
                        she had climbed the gate she beheld John riding toward her from the
                        direction of Rowsley, and her heart beat with thrill upon thrill of joy. She
                        felt that the crowning moment of her life was at hand. By the help of a
                        subtle sense—familiar spirit to her love perhaps—she knew
                        that John would ask her to go with him and to be his wife, despite all the
                        Rutlands and Vernons dead, living, or to be born. The thought of refusing
                        him never entered her mind. Queen Nature was on the throne in the fulness of
                        power, and Dorothy, in perfect attune with her great sovereign, was
                        fulfilling her destiny in accordance with the laws to which her drossless
                        being was entirely amenable.
                    Many times had the fear come to her that Sir John Manners, who was heir to
                        the great earldom of Rutland,—he who was so great, so good, and so
                        beautiful,—might feel that his duty to his house past, present, and
                        future, and the obligations of his position among the grand nobles  of the realm, should deter him from a
                        marriage against which so many good reasons could be urged. But this evening
                        her familiar spirit whispered to her that she need not fear, and her heart
                        was filled with joy and certainty.
                    John dismounted and tethered his horse at a short distance from the gate. He
                        approached Dorothy, but halted when he beheld a man instead of the girl whom
                        he longed to meet. His hesitancy surprised Dorothy, who, in her eagerness,
                        had forgotten her male attire. She soon saw, however, that he did not
                        recognize her, and she determined, in a spirit of mischief, to maintain her
                        incognito till he should penetrate her disguise.
                    She turned her back on John and sauntered leisurely about, whistling softly.
                        She pretended to be unconscious of his presence, and John, who felt that the
                        field was his by the divine right of love, walked to the gate and looked
                        through the bars toward Bowling Green. He stood at the gate for a short time
                        with indifference in his manner and irritation in his heart. He, too, tried
                        to hum a tune, but failed. Then he tried to whistle, but his musical efforts
                        were abortive. There was no music in him. A moment before his heart had been
                        full of harmony; but when he found a man instead of his sweetheart, the
                        harmony quickly turned to rasping discord.
                    John was not a patient man, and his impatience was apt to take the form of
                        words and actions. A little aimless stalking about at the gate was more than
                        enough for him, so he stepped toward the intruder and lifted his hat.
                    "I beg your pardon," he said, "I thought when
                        first I saw you that you were Sir Malcolm Vernon. I fancied you bore
                        resemblance to him. I see that I was in error."
                    "Yes, in error," answered my beard.
                    Again the two gentlemen walked around each other with great amusement on the
                        part of one, and with ever increasing vexation on the part of the other.
                    
                    Soon John said, "May I ask whom have I the honor to
                        address?"
                    "Certainly, you may ask," was the response.
                    A silence ensued during which Dorothy again turned her back on John and
                        walked a few paces away from him. John's patience was rapidly
                        oozing, and when the unknown intruder again turned in his direction, John
                        said with all the gentleness then at his command:—
                    "Well, sir, I do ask."
                    "Your curiosity is flattering," said the girl.
                    "Pardon me, sir," returned John. "My curiosity is
                        not intended to be flattering. I—"
                    "I hope it is not intended to be insulting, sir?" asked my
                        hat and cloak.
                    "That, sir, all depends upon yourself," retorted John,
                        warmly. Then after an instant of thought, he continued in tones of
                        conciliation:—
                    "I have an engagement of a private nature at this place. In short, I
                        hope to meet a—a friend here within a few minutes and I feel sure
                        that under the circumstances so gallant a gentleman as yourself will act
                        with due consideration for the feelings of another. I hope and believe that
                        you will do as you would be done by."
                    "Certainly, certainly," responded the gallant. "I
                        find no fault at all with your presence. Please take no account whatever of
                        me. I assure you I shall not be in the least disturbed."
                    John was somewhat disconcerted.
                    "Perhaps you will not be disturbed," replied John,
                        struggling to keep down his temper, "but I fear you do not
                        understand me. I hope to meet a—a lady and—"
                    "I hope also to meet a—a friend," the fellow said;
                        "but I assure you we shall in no way conflict."
                    "May I ask," queried John, "if you expect to meet
                        a gentleman or a lady?"
                    
                    "Certainly you may ask," was the girl's irritating
                        reply.
                    "Well, well, sir, I do ask," said John.
                        "Furthermore, I demand to know whom you expect to meet at this
                        place."
                    "That, of course, sir, is no business of yours."
                    "But I shall make it my affair. I expect to meet a lady here, my
                        sweetheart." The girl's heart jumped with joy.
                        "And if you have any of the feelings of a gentleman, you must know
                        that your presence will be intolerable to me."
                    "Perhaps it will be, my dear sir, but I have as good a right here as
                        you or any other. If you must know all about my affairs, I tell you I, too,
                        hope to meet my sweetheart at this place. In fact, I know I shall meet my
                        sweetheart, and, my good fellow, I beg to inform you that a
                        stranger's presence would be very annoying to me."
                    John was at his wit's end. He must quickly do or say something to
                        persuade this stubborn fellow to leave. If Dorothy should come and see two
                        persons at the gate she, of course, would return to the Hall. Jennie Faxton,
                        who knew that the garments were finished, had told Sir John that he might
                        reasonably expect to see Dorothy at the gate on that evening, for Sir George
                        had gone to Derby-town, presumably to remain over night.
                    In sheer desperation John said, "I was here first, and I claim the
                        ground."
                    "That is not true," replied the other. "I have
                        been waiting here for you—I mean for the person I am to
                        meet—" Dorothy thought she had betrayed herself, and that
                        John would surely recognize her. "I had been waiting full five
                        minutes before you arrived."
                    John's blindness in failing to recognize Dorothy is past my
                        understanding. He explained it to me afterward by saying that his eagerness
                        to see Dorothy, and his fear, nay almost certainty, that she could not come,
                        coupled with the hope which Jennie Faxton had given him, had so completely
                             occupied his mind that other subjects
                        received but slight consideration.
                    "But I—I have been here before this night to
                        meet—"
                    "And I have been here to meet—quite as often as you, I
                        hope," retorted Dorothy.
                    They say that love blinds a man. It must also have deafened John, since he
                        did not recognize his sweetheart's voice.
                    "It may be true that you have been here before this
                        evening," retorted John, angrily; "but you shall not
                        remain here now. If you wish to save yourself trouble, leave at once. If you
                        stalk about in the forest, I will run you through and leave you for the
                        crows to pick."
                    "I have no intention of leaving, and if I were to do so you would
                        regret it; by my beard, you would regret it," answered the girl,
                        pleased to see John in his overbearing, commanding mood. His stupidity was
                        past comprehension.
                    "Defend yourself," said John, drawing his sword.
                    "Now he will surely know the truth," thought Dorothy, but
                        she said: "I am much younger than you, and am not so large and
                        strong. I am unskilled in the use of a sword, and therefore am I no match
                        for Sir John Manners than whom, I have heard, there is no better swordsman,
                        stronger arm, nor braver heart in England."
                    "You flatter me, my friend," returned John, forced into a
                        good humor against his will; "but you must leave. He who cannot
                        defend himself must yield; it is the law of nature and of men."
                    John advanced toward Dorothy, who retreated stepping backward, holding her
                        arm over her face.
                    "I am ready to yield if you wish. In fact, I am eager to
                        yield—more eager than you can know," she cried.
                    "It is well," answered John, putting his sword in
                        sheath.
                    "But," continued Dorothy, "I will not go
                        away."
                    "Then you must fight," said John.
                    
                    "I tell you again I am willing, nay, eager to yield to you, but I
                        also tell you I cannot fight in the way you would have me. In other ways
                        perhaps I can fight quite as well as anybody. But really, I am ashamed to
                        draw my sword, since to do so would show you how poorly I am equipped to
                        defend myself under your great laws of nature and of man. Again, I wish to
                        assure you that I am more than eager to yield; but I cannot fight you, and I
                        will not go away."
                    The wonder never ceases that John did not recognize her. She took no pains to
                        hide her identity, and after a few moments of concealment she was anxious
                        that John should discover her under my garments.
                    "I would know his voice," she thought, "did he
                        wear all the petticoats in Derbyshire."
                    "What shall I do with you?" cried John, amused and
                        irritated. "I cannot strike you."
                    "No, of course you would not murder me in cold blood,"
                        answered Dorothy, laughing heartily. She was sure her laughter would open
                        John's eyes.
                    "I cannot carry you away," said John.
                    "I would come back again, if you did," answered the
                        irrepressible fellow.
                    "I suppose you would," returned John, sullenly.
                        "In the devil's name, tell me what you will do. Can I not
                        beg you to go?"
                    "Now, Sir John, you have touched me. I make you this offer: you
                        expect Mistress Vernon to come from the Hall—"
                    "What do you know about Mistress Vernon?" cried John.
                        "By God, I will—"
                    "Now don't grow angry, Sir John, and please don't
                        swear in my presence. You expect her, I say, to come from the Hall. What I
                        propose is this: you shall stand by the gate and watch for Doll—oh,
                        I mean Mistress  Vernon—and I will
                        stand here behind the wall where she cannot see me. When she comes in
                        sight—though in truth I don't think she will come, and I
                        believe were she under your very nose you would not see her—you
                        shall tell me and I will leave at once; that is, if you wish me to leave.
                        After you see Dorothy Vernon if you still wish me to go, I pledge my faith
                        no power can keep me. Now is not that fair? I like you very much, and I want
                        to remain here, if you will permit me, and talk to you for a little
                        time—till you see Doll Vernon."
                    "Doll Vernon, fellow? How dare you so speak of her?"
                        demanded John, hotly.
                    "Your pardon and her pardon, I beg; Mistress Vernon, soon to be
                        Countess of Derbyshire. By the way, I wager you a gold pound sterling that
                        by the time you see Doll Vernon—Mistress Vernon, I pray your
                        pardon—you will have grown so fond of me that you will not permit
                        me to leave you." She thought after that speech he could not help
                        but know her; but John's skull was like an oaken board that night.
                        Nothing could penetrate it. He began to fancy that his companion was a
                        simple witless person who had escaped from his keepers.
                    "Will you take the wager?" asked Dorothy.
                    "Nonsense!" was the only reply John deigned to give to so
                        foolish a proposition.
                    "Then will you agree that I shall remain at the gate till
                        Doll—Mistress Vernon comes?"
                    "I suppose I shall have to make the best terms possible with
                        you," he returned. "You are an amusing fellow and as
                        perverse as a woman."
                    "I knew you would soon learn to like me," she responded.
                        "The first step toward a man's affection is to amuse him.
                        That old saw which says the road to a man's heart is through his
                        stomach, is a sad mistake. Amusement is the highway to a man's
                        affections."
                    
                    "It is better that one laugh with us than at us. There is a vast
                        difference in the two methods," answered John, contemptuously.
                    "You dare to laugh at me," cried Dorothy, grasping the hilt
                        of her sword, and pretending to be angry. John waved her off with his hand,
                        and laughingly said, "Little you know concerning the way to a
                        man's heart, and no doubt less of the way to a
                        woman's."
                    "I, perhaps, know more about it than you would believe,"
                        returned Malcolm No. 2.
                    "If you know aught of the latter subject, it is more than I would
                        suppose," said John. "It is absurd to say that a woman can
                        love a man who is unable to defend himself."
                    "A vain man thinks that women care only for men of his own
                        pattern," retorted Dorothy. "Women love a strong arm, it
                        is true, but they also love a strong heart, and you see I am not at all
                        afraid of you, even though you have twice my strength. There are as many
                        sorts of bravery, Sir John, as—as there are hairs in my
                        beard."
                    "That is not many," interrupted John.
                    "And," continued the girl, "I believe,
                        John,—Sir John,—you possess all the kinds of bravery that
                        are good."
                    "You flatter me," said John.
                    "Yes," returned Dorothy, "that was my
                        intent."
                    After that unflattering remark there came a pause. Then the girl continued
                        somewhat hesitatingly: "Doubtless many women, Sir John, have seen
                        your virtues more clearly than even I see them. Women have a keener
                        perception of masculine virtues than—than we have."
                    Dorothy paused, and her heart beat with a quickened throb while she awaited
                        his reply. A new field of discovery was opening up to her and a new use for
                        her disguise.
                    John made no reply, but the persistent girl pursued her new line of
                        attack.
                    "Surely Sir John Manners has had many sweethearts,"  said Dorothy, in flattering tones. There were
                        rocks and shoals ahead for John's love barge. "Many, many,
                        I am sure," the girl persisted.
                    "Ah, a few, a few, I admit," John like a fool replied.
                        Dorothy was accumulating disagreeable informaation rapidly.
                    "While you were at London court," said she, "the
                        fine ladies must have sought you in great numbers—I am sure they
                        did."
                    "Perhaps, oh, perhaps," returned John. "One cannot
                        always remember such affairs." His craft was headed for the rocks.
                        Had he observed Dorothy's face, he would have seen the storm
                        a-brewing.
                    "To how many women, Sir John, have you lost your heart, and at
                        various times how many have lost their hearts to you?" asked the
                        persistent girl.—" What a senseless question,"
                        returned John. "A dozen times or more; perhaps a score or two score
                        times. I cannot tell the exact number. I did not keep an
                        account."
                    Dorothy did not know whether she wanted to weep or be angry. Pique and a
                        flash of temper, however, saved her from tears, and she said, "You
                        are so brave and handsome that you must have found it a very easy
                        task—much easier than it would be for me—to convince those
                        confiding ones of your affection?"
                    "Yes," replied John, plunging full sail upon the breakers.
                        "I admit that usually they have been quite easy to convince. I am
                        naturally bold, and I suppose that perhaps—that is, I may possibly
                        have a persuasive trick about me."
                    Shades of good men who have blundered into ruin over the path of petty
                        vanity, save this man! But no, Dorothy must drink the bitter cup of
                        knowledge to the dregs.
                    "And you have been false to all of these women?" she
                        said.
                    
                    "Ah, well, you know—the devil take it! A man can't
                        be true to a score of women," replied John.
                    "I am sure none of them wished you to be true," the girl
                        answered, restraining her tears with great difficulty.
                    At that point in the conversation John began to suspect from the manner and
                        shapeliness of his companion that a woman had disguised herself in
                        man's attire. Yet it did not once occur to him that
                        Dorothy's fair form was concealed within the disguise. He attempted
                        to lift my soft beaver hat, the broad rim of which hid Dorothy's
                        face, but to that she made a decided objection, and John continued:
                        "By my soul I believe you are a woman. Your
                        walk"—Dorothy thought she had been swaggering like a
                        veritable swash-buckler—" your voice, the curves of your
                        form, all betray you." Dorothy gathered the cloak closely about
                        her.
                    "I would know more of you," said John, and he steppe toward
                        the now interesting stranger. But she drew away from him, and told him to
                        keep hands off.
                    "Oh, I am right. You are a woman," said John.
                    Dorothy had maintained the disguise longer than she wished, and was willing
                        that John should discover her identity. At first it had been rare sport to
                        dupe him; but the latter part of her conversation had given her no pleasure.
                        She was angry, jealous, and hurt by what she had learned.
                    "Yes, she answered, "I admit that I am a—a woman.
                        Now I must go."
                    "Stay but one moment," pleaded John, whose curiosity and
                        gallantry were aroused. "I will watch for Mistress Vernon, and when
                        she appears then you may go."
                    "I told you that you would want me to remain," said the
                        girl with a sigh. She was almost ready to weep. Then she thought:
                        "I little dreamed I was coming here for this. I will carry the
                        disguise a little farther, and will, perhaps, learn enough to—to
                        break my heart."
                    
                    She was soon to learn all she wanted to know and a great deal more.
                    "Come sit by me on this stone," said John, coaxingly, The
                        girl complied, and drew the cloak over her knees.
                    "Tell me why you are here," he asked.
                    "To meet a gentleman," she replied, with low-bent face.
                    "Tell me your name," John asked, as he drew my glove from
                        her passive hand. John held the hand in his, and after examining it in the
                        dim light saw that it was a great deal more than good to look upon. Then he
                        lifted it to his lips and said:
                    "Since our sweethearts have disappointed us, may we not console
                        ourselves with each other?" He placed his arm around the
                        girl's waist and drew her yielding form toward him. Dorothy,
                        unobserved by John, removed the false beard and moustachio, and when John
                        put his arm about her waist and leaned forward to kiss the fair
                        accommodating neighbor she could restrain her tears no longer and
                        said:—
                    "That would be no consolation for me, John; that would be no
                        consolation for me. How can you? How can you?"
                    She rose to her feet and covered her face with her hands in a paroxysm of
                        weeping. John, too, sprang to his feet, you may be sure. "Dorothy!
                        God help me! I am the king of fools. Curse this hour in which I have thrown
                        away my heaven. You must hate and despise me, fool, fool that I
                        am."
                    John knew that it were worse than useless for him to attempt an explanation.
                        The first thought that flashed through his mind was, to tell the girl that
                        he had only pretended not to know her. He thought he would try to make her
                        believe that he had been turning her trick upon herself; but he was wise in
                        his day and generation, and did not seek refuge in that falsehood.
                    
                    The girl would never have forgiven him for that.
                    "The only amends I can make," he said, in very dolefulness,
                        "is that I may never let you see my face again."
                    "That will not help matters," sobbed Dorothy.
                    "I know it will not," returned John. "Nothing can
                        help me. I can remain here no longer. I must leave you. I cannot even ask
                        you to say farewell. Mistres Vernon, you do not despise me half so bitterly
                        as I despise myself."
                    Dorothy was one of those rare natures to whom love comes but once. It had
                        come to her and had engulfed her whole being. To part with it would be like
                        parting with life itself. It was her tyrant, her master. It was her ego. She
                        could no more throw it off than she could expel herself from her own
                        existence. All this she knew full well, for she had analyzed her conditions,
                        and her reason had joined with all her other faculties in giving her a clear
                        concept of the truth. She knew she belonged to John Manners for life and for
                        eternity. She also knew that the chance of seeing him soon again was very
                        slight, and to part from him now in aught but kindness would almost kill
                        her.
                    Before John had recognized Dorothy he certainly had acted like a fool, but
                        with the shock of recognition came wisdom. All the learning of the ancients
                        and all the cunning of the prince of darkness could not have taught him a
                        wiser word with which to make his peace, "I may never let you see
                        my face again." That was more to be feared by Dorothy than even
                        John's inconstancy.
                    Her heart was full of trouble. "I do not know what I wish,"
                        she said simply. "Give me a little time to think."
                    John's heart leaped with joy, but he remained silent.
                    Dorothy continued: "Oh, that I had remained at home. I would to God
                        I had never seen Derby-town nor you."
                    John in the fulness of his wisdom did not interrupt her.
                    
                    "To think that I have thus made a fool of myself about a man who has
                        given his heart to a score of women."
                    "This is torture," moaned John, in real pain.
                    "But," continued Dorothy, "I could not remain away
                        from this place when I had the opportunity to come to you. I felt that I
                        must come. I felt that I should die if I did not. And you are so false. I
                        wish I were dead. A moment ago, had I been another woman, you would have
                        kissed her. You thought I was another woman."
                    John's wisdom stood by him nobly. He knew he could neither explain
                        successfully nor beg forgiveness. He simply said: "I cannot remain
                        and look you in the face. If I dare make any request, it is that despite all
                        you have heard from my lips you will still believe that I love you, and that
                        in all my life I have never loved any one so dearly. There is no other woman
                        for me."
                    "You doubtless spoke the same false words to the other two score
                        women," said Dorothy. Tears and sobs were playing sad havoc with
                        her powers of speech.
                    "Farewell, Mistress Vernon," replied John. "I
                        should be shameless if I dared ask you to believe any word I can utter.
                        Forget, if possible, that I ever existed; forget me that you may not despise
                        me. I am unworthy to dwell even in the smallest of your thoughts. I am
                        altogether base and contemptible."
                    "N-o-o," sighed Dorothy, poutingly, while she bent low her
                        head and toyed with the gold lace of my cloak.
                    "Farewell," said John. He took a step or two backward from
                        her.
                    "You are over-eager to leave, it seems to me," said the
                        girl in an injured tone. "I wonder that you came at all."
                        John's heart was singing hosanna. He, however, maintained his voice
                        at a mournful pitch and said: "I must go. I can no longer endure to
                        remain." While he spoke he moved toward his horse, and his head was
                        bowed with  real shame as he thought of the
                        pitiable fool he had made of himself. Dorothy saw him going from her, and
                        she called to him softly and reluctantly, "John."
                    He did not hear her, or perhaps he thought best to pretend that he did not
                        hear, and as he moved from her the girl became desperate. Modesty,
                        resentment, insulted womanhood and injured pride were all swept away by the
                        stream of her mighty love, and she cried again, this time without hesitancy
                        or reluctance, "John, John." She started to run toward
                        him, but my cloak was in her way, and the sword tripped her feet. In her
                        fear lest John might leave her, she unclasped the sword-belt from her waist
                        and snatched the cloak from her shoulders. Freed from these hindrances, she
                        ran toward John.
                    John, do not leave me. Do not leave me." As she spoke, she reached
                        an open space among the trees and John turned toward her. Her hat had fallen
                        off, and the red golden threads of her hair, freed from their fastenings,
                        streamed behind her. Never before had a vision of such exquisite loveliness
                        sped through the moonbeams. So entrancing was her beauty to John that he
                        stood motionless in admiration. He did not go to meet her as he should have
                        done, and perhaps as he would have done had his senses not been wrapped in
                        benumbing wonderment. His eyes were unable to interpret to his brain all her
                        marvellous beauty, and his other senses abandoning their proper functions
                        had hastened to the assistance of his sight. He saw, he heard, he felt her
                        loveliness. Thus occupied he did not move, so Dorothy ran to him and fell
                        upon his breast.
                    "You did not come to meet me," she sobbed. "You
                        made me come all the way, to forgive you. Cruel, cruel!"
                    John held the girl in his arms, but he did not dare to kiss her, and his
                        self-denial soon brought its reward. He had not expected that she would come
                        a beggar to him.  The most he had dared to
                        hope was that she would listen to his prayer for forgiveness. With all his
                        worldly wisdom John had not learned the fact that inconstancy does not
                        destroy love in the one who suffers by reason of it; nor did he know of the
                        exquisite pain-touched happiness which comes to a gentle, passionate heart
                        such as Dorothy's from the mere act of forgiving.
                    "Is it possible you can forgive me for the miserable lies I have
                        uttered?" asked John, almost unconscious of the words he was
                        speaking. "Is it possible you can forgive me for uttering those
                        lies, Dorothy?" he repeated.
                    She laid her head upon his breast, and softly passing her hand over the lace
                        of his doublet, whispered:—
                    "If I could believe they were lies, I could easily forgive
                        you," she answered between low sobs and soft sighs. Though she was
                        a woman, the sweet essence of childhood was in her heart.
                    "But you cannot believe me, even when I tell you that I spoke not
                        the truth," answered John, with growing faith in his system of
                        passive repentance. Again came the sighs, and a few struggling, childish
                        sobs.
                    "It is easy for us to believe that which we long to
                        believe," she said. Then she turned her face upward to him, and
                        John's reward was altogether disproportioned to the self-denial he
                        had exercised a few minutes before. She rewarded him far beyond his deserts;
                        and after a pause she said mischievously:—
                    "You told me that you were a bold man with women, and I know that at
                        least that part of what you said was untrue, for you are a bashful man,
                        John, you are downright bashful. It is I who have been bold. You were too
                        timid to woo me, and I so longed for you that I—I—was not
                        timid."
                    "For God's sake, Dorothy, I beg you to have pity and to
                        make no jest of me. Your kindness almost kills me, and your
                        ridicule—"
                    
                    "There, there, John," whispered the girl, "I will
                        never again make a jest of you if it gives you pain. Tell me, John, tell me
                        truly, was it all false—that which you told me about the other
                        women?"
                    There had been more truth in John's bragging than he cared to
                        confess. He feared and loathed a lie; so he said evasively, but with perfect
                        truth:—
                    "You must know, my goddess. If you do not know without the telling
                        that I love you with all my being; if you do not know that there is for me
                        and ever will be no woman but you in all the world; if you do not know that
                        you have stolen my soul and that I live only in your presence, all that I
                        can say will avail nothing toward convincing you. I am almost crazed with
                        love for you, and with pain and torture. For the love of God let me leave
                        you that I may hide my face."
                    "Never," cried the girl, clasping her hands about his neck
                        and pressing her lips gently upon his. "Never. There, that will
                        soothe you, won't it, John?"
                    It did soothe him, and in the next moment, John, almost frenzied with joy,
                        hurt the girl by the violence of his embraces; but she, woman-like, found
                        her heaven in the pain.
                    They went back to the stone bench beside the gate, and after a little time
                        Dorothy said:—
                    "But tell me, John, would you have kissed the other woman? Would you
                        really have done it?"
                    John's honesty certainly was good policy in that instance. The
                        adroit girl had set a trap for him.
                    "I suppose I would," answered John, with a groan.
                    "It hurts me to hear the fact," said Dorothy, sighing;
                        "but it pleases me to hear the truth. I know all else you tell me
                        is true. I was trying you when I asked the question, for I certainly knew
                        what you intended to do. A woman instinctively knows when a man is going
                        to—to—when anything of that sort is about to
                        happen."
                    
                    "How does she know?" asked John.
                    Rocks and breakers ahead for Dorothy.
                    "I cannot tell you," replied the girl, naïvely,
                        "but she knows."
                    "Perhaps it is the awakened desire in her own heart which forewarns
                        her," said John, stealthily seeking from Dorothy a truth that would
                        pain him should he learn it
                    "I suppose that is partly the source of her knowledge,"
                        replied the knowing one, with a great show of innocence in her manner. John
                        was in no position to ask impertinent questions, nor had he any right to
                        grow angry at unpleasant discoveries; but he did both, although for a time
                        he suppressed the latter.
                    "You believe she is sure to know, do you?" he asked.
                    "Usually," she replied. "Of course there are times
                        when—when it happens so suddenly that—"
                    John angrily sprang to his feet, took a few hurried steps in front of
                        Dorothy, who remained demurely seated with her eyes cast down, and then
                        again he took his place beside her on the stone bench. He was trembling with
                        anger and jealousy. The devil was in the girl that night for mischief.
                    "I suppose you speak from the fulness of your experience,"
                        demanded John, in tones that would have been insulting had they not been
                        pleasing to the girl. She had seen the drift of John's questions at
                        an early stage of the conversation, and his easily aroused jealousy was good
                        proof to her of his affection. After all, she was in no danger from rocks
                        and breakers. She well knew the currents, eddies, rocks, and shoals of the
                        sea she was navigating, although she had never before sailed it. Her
                        foremothers, all the way back to Eve, had been making charts of those
                        particular waters for her especial benefit. Why do we, a slow-moving,
                        cumbersome army of men, continue to do battle with the foe at whose hands
                        defeat is always our portion?
                    
                    "Experience?" queried Dorothy, her head turned to one side
                        in a half-contemplative attitude. "Experience? Of course that is
                        the only way we learn anything."
                    John again sprang to his feet, and again he sat down beside the girl. He had
                        so recently received forgiveness for his own sins that he dared not be
                        unforgiving toward Dorothy. He did not speak, and she remained silent,
                        willing to allow time for the situation to take its full effect. The wisdom
                        of the serpent is black ignorance compared with the cunning of a girl in
                        Dorothy's situation. God gives her wit for the occasion as He gives
                        the cat soft paws, sharp claws, and nimbleness. She was teaching John a
                        lesson he would never forget. She was binding him to her with hoops of
                        steel.
                    "I know that I have not the right to ask," said John,
                        suppressing his emotions, "but may I know merely as a matter of
                        trivial information—may I know the name of—of the
                        person—this fellow with whom you have had so full an experience?
                        God curse him! Tell me his name." He caught the girl violently by
                        both arms as if he would shake the truth out of her. He was unconsciously
                        making full amends for the faults he had committed earlier in the evening.
                        The girl made no answer. John's powers of self-restraint, which
                        were not of the strongest order, were exhausted, and he again sprang to his
                        feet and stood towering before her in a passion. "Tell me his
                        name," he said hoarsely. "I demand it. I will not rest
                        till I kill him."
                    "If you would kill him, I surely will not tell you his name. In
                        truth, I admit I am very fond of him."
                    "Speak not another word to me till you tell tell me his
                        name," stormed John. I feel sorry for John when I think of the part
                        he played in this interview; but every man knows well his condition.
                    "I care not," continued John, "in what manner I
                        have  offended you, nor does my debt of
                        gratitude to you for your generosity in forgiving my sins weigh one scruple
                        against this you have told me. No man, unless he were a poor clown, would
                        endure it; and I tell you now, with all my love for you, I will
                        not—I will not!"
                    Dorothy was beginning to fear him. She of course did not fear personal
                        violence; but after all, while he was slower than she, he was much stronger
                        every way, and when aroused, his strength imposed itself upon her and she
                        feared to play him any farther.
                    "Sit beside me, John, and I will tell you his name," said
                        the girl, looking up to him, and then casting down her eyes. A dimpling
                        smile was playing about her lips.
                    "No, I will not sit by you," replied John, angrily. She
                        partly rose, and taking him by the arm drew him to her side.
                    "Tell me his name," again demanded John, sitting rigidly by
                        Dorothy. "Tell me his name."
                    "Will you kill him?" she asked.
                    "That I will," he answered. "Of that you may rest
                        assured."
                    "If you kill him, John, it will break my heart; for to do so, you
                        must commit suicide. There is no other man but you John. With you I had my
                        first, last, and only experence."
                    John, of course, was speechless. He had received only what he deserved. I
                        freely admit he played the part of a fool during this entire interview with
                        Dorothy, and he was more fully convinced of the fact than either you or I
                        can be. I do not like to have a fool for the hero of my history; but this
                        being a history and not a romance, I must tell you of events just as they
                        happened, and of persons exactly as they were, else my conscience will smite
                        me for untruthfulness. Dorothy's last assault was too much for
                        John. He could neither parry nor thrust.
                    
                    Her heart was full of mirth and gladness.
                    "None other but you, John," she repeated, leaning forward
                        in front of him, and looking up into his eyes. A ray fell upon her upturned
                        face and caused it to glow with a goddess-like radiance.
                    "None but you, John. There never has been and there never shall be
                        another."
                    When John's consciousness returned he said, "Dorothy, can
                        you love such a food as I?"
                    "That I can and that I do with all my heart," she
                        returned.
                    "And can you forgive me for this last fault—for doubting
                        you?"
                    "That is easily done," she answered softly,
                        "because doubt is the child of love."
                    "But you do not doubt me?" he replied.
                    "N-o-o," she answered somewhat haltingly; "but
                        I—I am a woman."
                    "And a woman's heart is the home of faith," said
                        John, reverentially.
                    Y-e-s," she responded, still not quite sure of her ground.
                        "Sometimes it is the home of too much faith, but faith, like
                        virtue, is its own reward. Few persons are false to one who gives a blind,
                        unquestioning faith. Even a poor degree of honor responds to it in
                        kind."
                    "Dorothy, I am so unworthy of you that I stand abashed in your
                        presence," replied John.
                    "No, you are not unworthy of me. We don't look for unmixed
                        good in men," said the girl with a mischievous little laugh. Then
                        seriously: "Those virtues you have are so great and so strong,
                        John, that my poor little virtues, while they perhaps are more numerous than
                        yours, are but weak things by comparison. In truth, there are some faults in
                        men which we women do not—do not althogether  dislike. They cause us—they make us—oh, I
                        cannot express exactly what I mean. They make us more eager perhaps. A too
                        constant man is like an overstrong sweet: he cloys us. The faults I speak of
                        hurt us; but we thrive on them. Women enjoy pain now and then. Malcolm was
                        telling me the other day that the wise people of the East have a saying:
                        'Without shadow there can be no light; without death there can be
                        no life; without suffering there can be no joy.' Surely is that
                        saying true of women. She who suffers naught enjoys naught. When a woman
                        becomes passive, John, she is but a clod. Pain gives us a vent—a
                        vent for something, I know not what it is; but this I know, we are happier
                        for it."
                    "I fear, Dorothy, that I have given you too much
                        'vent,' as you call it," said John.
                    "No, no," she replied. "That was nothing. My great
                        vent is that I can pour out my love upon you, John, without stint. Now that
                        I know you are mine, I have some one whom I can deluge with it. Do you know,
                        John, I believe that when God made me He collected together the requisite
                        portions of reason, imagination, and will,—there was a great plenty
                        of will, John,—and all the other ingredients that go to make a
                        human being. But after He had gotten them all together there was still a
                        great space left to be filled, and He just threw in an immensity of love
                        with which to complete me. Therefore, John, am I not in true proportion.
                        There is too much love in me, and it wells up at times and overflows my
                        heart. How thankful I should be that I may pour it upon you and that it will
                        not be wasted. How good you are to give me the sweet
                        privilege."
                    "How thankful should I be, Dorothy. I have never known you till this
                        night. I am unworthy—"
                    "Not another word of that sort, John," she interrupted,
                        covering his mouth with her hand.
                    
                    They stood for a long time talking a deal of celestial nonsense which I shall
                        not give you. I fear I have already given you too much of what John and
                        Dorothy did and said in this very sentimental interview. But in no other way
                        can I so well make you to know the persons of whom I write. I might have
                        said Dorothy was so and so, and John was such and such. I might have
                        analyzed them in long, dull pages of minute description; but it is that
                        which persons do and say that gives us true concept of their characters;
                        what others say about them is little else than a mere statement that black
                        is black and white is white. But to my story again.
                    Dorothy by her beauty had won John's admiration when first he beheld
                        her. When he met her afterward, her charms of mind and her thousand winsome
                        ways moved him deeply. But upon the evening of which I am now telling you he
                        beheld for the first time her grand burning soul, and he saw her pure heart
                        filled to overflowing with its dangerous burden of love, right from the
                        hands of God Himself, as the girl had said. John was of a coarser fibre than
                        she who had put him up for her idol; but his sensibilities were keen, and at
                        their awakening he saw clearly the worth of the priceless treasure which
                        propitious fate had given him in the love of Dorothy, and he sat humbly at
                        her feet. Yet she knew it not, but sat humbly at John's feet the
                        happiest woman in all the world because of her great good fortune in having
                        a demigod upon whom she could lavish the untold wealth of her heart. If you
                        are a woman, pray God that He may touch your eyes with Dorothy's
                        blessed blindness. There is a heaven in the dark for you, if you can find
                        it.
                    I must leave the scene, though I am loath to do so. Seldom do we catch a
                        glimpse of a human soul, and more seldom still does it show itself like a
                        gust of God's breath upon the deep of eternity as it did that night
                        in Dorothy.
                    
                    After a time John said: "I have your promise to be my wife. Do you
                        still wish to keep it?"
                    "What an absurd question, John," replied the girl, laughing
                        softly and contentedly. "Why else am I here? Tell me, think you,
                        John, should I be here if I were not willing and eager to—to keep
                        that promise?";
                    "Will you go with me notwithstanding your father's hatred
                        of my house?" he asked.
                    "Ah, truly that I will, John," she answered;
                        "surely you know I will go with you."
                    "Let us go at once. Let us lose not a moment. We have already
                        delayed too long," cried John in eager ecstasy.
                    "Not to-night, John; I cannot go to-night," she
                        pleaded.
                    "Think of my attire," and she drew my cloak more closely
                        about her. "I cannot go with you this time. My father is angry with
                        me because of you, although he does not know who you are. Is it not famous
                        to have a lover in secret of whom nobody knows? Father is angry with me, and
                        as I told you in my letter, he keeps me a prisoner in my rooms. Aunt Dorothy
                        stands guard over me. The dear, simple old soul! She told me, thinking I was
                        Malcolm, that she was too old to be duped by a girl! Oh, it was too
                        comical!" And she threw back her head and gave forth a peal of
                        laughter that John was reluctantly compelled to silence. "I would
                        so delight to tell you of the scene when I was in Aunt Dorothy's
                        room impersonating Malcolm; but I have so much else to say of more
                        importance that I know I shall not tell the half. When you have left me, I
                        shall remember what I most wished to say but forgot."
                    "No, John," she continued seriously, "my father
                        has been cruel to me, and I try to make myself think I do not love him; but
                        I fail, for I do love him." Tears were welling up in her eyes and
                        stifling her voice. In a moment  she
                        continued: "It would kill him, John, were I to go with you now. I
                            will go with you soon,—I give you my solemn
                        promise to that—but I cannot go now,—not now. I cannot
                        leave him and the others. With all his cruelty to me, I love him, John, next
                        to you. He will not come to see me nor will he speak to me. Think of
                        that." The tears that had welled up to her eyes fell in a piteous
                        stream over her cheeks. "Aunt Dorothy and Madge," she
                        continued, "are so dear to me that the thought of leaving them is
                        torture. But I will go with you some day, John, some day soon, I promise
                        you. They have always been kind and gentle to me, and I love them and my
                        father and my dear home where I was born and where my sweet mother
                        died—and Dolcy—I love them all so dearly that I must
                        prepare myself to leave them, John, even to go with you. The heart strings
                        of my whole life bind me to them. Forgive me, John, forgive me. You must
                        think of the grief and pain I shall yet pass through to go to you. It is as
                        I told you: we women reach heaven only through purgatory. I must forsake all
                        else I love when I go to you. All, all! All that has been dear to me in life
                        I must forsake for—for that which is dearer to me than life itself.
                        I promise, John, to go with you, but—but forgive me. I cannot go
                        to-night."
                    "Nor can I ask it of you, Dorothy," said John.
                        "The sacrifice would be all on one side. I should forego nothing,
                        and I should receive all. You would forego everything, and God help me, you
                        would receive nothing worth having. I am unworthy—"
                    "Not that word, John," cried Dorothy, again covering his
                        mouth with—well, not with her hand. "I shall give up a
                        great deal," she continued, "and I know I shall suffer. I
                        suffer even now when I think of it, for you must remember that I am rooted
                        to my home and to the dear ones it shelters; but I will soon make the
                        exchange,  John; I shall make it gladly when
                        the time comes, because—because I feel that I could not live if I
                        did not make it."
                    "My father has already consented to our marriage," said
                        John. "I told him to-day all that had passed between you and me.
                        He, of course, was greatly pained at first; but when I told him of your
                        perfections, he said that if you and I were dear to each other, he would
                        offer no opposition, but would welcome you to his heart."
                    "Is your father that—that sort of a man?" asked
                        Dorothy, half in revery. "I have always heard—"
                        and she hesitated.
                    "I know," replied John, "that you have heard much
                        evil of my father, but—let us not talk on that theme. You will know
                        him some day, and you may judge him for yourself. When will you go with me,
                        Dorothy?"
                    Soon, very soon, John," she answered. "You know father
                        intends that I shall marry Lord Stanley. I intend
                        otherwise. The more father hurries this marriage with my beautiful cousin
                        the sooner I shall be—be your—that is, you know, the
                        sooner I shall go with you."
                    "You will not allow your father to force you to marry Lord
                        Stanley?" asked John, frightened by the thought.
                    "Ah," cried the girl, softly, "you know I told you
                        that God had put into me a great plenty of will. Father calls it wilfulness;
                        but whichever it is, it stands me in good hand now. You don't know
                        how much I have of it! You never will know until I am
                        your—your—wife." The last word was spoken in a
                        soft, hesitating whisper, and her head sought shamefaced refuge on
                        John's breast. Of course the magic word "wife" on
                        Dorothy's lips aroused John to action, and—but a cloud at
                        that moment passed over the moon and kindly obscured the scene.
                    
                    You do not blame me, John," said Dorothy, "because I cannot
                        go with you to-night? You do not blame me?"
                    "Indeed I do not, my goddess," answered John. "You
                        will soon be mine. I shall await your pleasure and your own time, and when
                        your choose to come to me—ah, then—" And the
                        kindly cloud came back to the moon.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    THOMAS THE MAN-SERVANT
                    
                    AFTER a great effort of self-denial John told Dorothy it was time for her to
                        return to the Hall, and he walked with her down Bowling Green Hill to the
                        wall back of the terrace garden.
                    Dorothy stood for a moment on the stile at the old stone wall, and John,
                        clasping her hand, said:—
                    "You will perhaps see me sooner than you expect," and then
                        the cloud considerately floated over the moon again, and John hurried away
                        up Bowling Green Hill.
                    Dorothy crossed the terrace garden, going toward the door since known as
                        "Dorothy's Postern." She had reached the top of
                        the postern steps when she heard her father's voice, beyond the
                        north wall of the terrace garden well up toward Bowling Green Hill. John,
                        she knew, was at that moment climbing the hill. Immediately following the
                        sound of her father's voice she heard another voice—that
                        of her father's retainer, Sir John Guild. Then came the word
                        "Halt!" quickly followed by the report of a fusil, and the
                        sharp clinking of swords upon the hillside. She ran back to the wall, and
                        saw the dimly outlined forms of four men. One of them was John, who was
                        retreating up the hill. The others were following him. Sir George and Sir
                        John Guild had unexpectedly returned from Derby. They had left their horses
                        with the stable boys and were walking toward the kitchen door when Sir
                        George noticed  a man pass from behind the
                        corner of the terrace garden wall and proceed up Bowling Green Hill. The man
                        of course was John. Immediately Sir George and Guild, accompanied by a
                        servant who was with them, started in pursuit of the intruder, and a moment
                        afterward Dorothy heard her father's voice and the discharge of the
                        fusil. She climbed to the top of the stile, filled with an agony of fear.
                        Sir George was fifteen or twenty yards in advance of his companion, and when
                        John saw that his pursuers were attacking him singly, he turned and quickly
                        ran back to meet the warlike King of the Peak. By a few adroit turns with
                        his sword John disarmed his antagonist, and rushing in upon him easily threw
                        him to the ground by a wrestler's trick. Guild and the servant by
                        that time were within six yards of Sir George and John.
                    "Stop!" cried Manners, "your master is on the
                        ground at my feet. My sword point is at his heart. Make but one step toward
                        me and Sir George Vernon will be a dead man."
                    Guild and the servant halted instantly.
                    "What are your terms?" cried Guild, speaking with the haste
                        which he well knew was necessary if he would save his master's
                        life.
                    "My terms are easy," answered John. "All I ask is
                        that you allow me to depart in peace. I am here on no harmful errand, and I
                        demand that I may depart and that I be not followed nor spied upon by any
                        one."
                    "You may depart in peace," said Guild. "No one
                        will follow you; no one will spy upon you. To this I pledge my knightly word
                        in the name of Christ my Saviour."
                    John at once took his way unmolested up the hill and rode home with his heart
                        full of fear lest his tryst with Dorothy had been discovered.
                    Guild and the servant assisted Sir George to rise, and the three started down
                        the hill toward the stile where Dorothy  was
                        standing. She was hidden from them, however, by the wall. Jennie Faxton, who
                        had been on guard while John and Dorothy were at the gate, at
                        Dorothy's suggestion stood on top of the stile where she could
                        easily be seen by Sir George when he approached.
                    "When my father comes here and questions you," said Dorothy
                        to Jennie Faxton, "tell him that the man whom he attacked was your
                        sweetheart."
                    "Never fear, mistress," responded Jennie. "I will
                        have a fine story for the master."
                    Dorothy crouched inside the wall under the shadow of a bush, and Jennie
                        waited on the top of the stile. Sir George, thinking the girl was Dorothy,
                        lost no time in approaching her. He caught her roughly by the arm and turned
                        her around that he might see her face.
                    "By God, Guild," he muttered," I have made a
                        mistake. I thought the girl was Doll."
                    He left instantly and followed Guild and the servant to the kitchen door.
                        when Sir George left the stile, Dorothy hastened back to the postern of
                        which she had the key, and hurried toward her room. She reached the door of
                        her father's room just in time to see Sir George and Guild enter
                        it. They saw her, and supposed her to be myself. If she hesitated, she was
                        lost. But Dorothy never hesitated. To think, with her, was to act. She did
                        not of course know that I was still in her apartments. She took the chance,
                        however, and boldly followed Sir John Guild into her father's room.
                        There she paused for a moment that she might not appear to be in too great
                        haste, and then entered Aunt Dorothy's room where I was seated,
                        waiting for her.
                    "Dorothy, my dear child," exclaimed Lady Crawford, clasping
                        her arms about Dorothy's neck.
                    "There is no time to waste in sentiment, Aunt Dorothy,"
                        responded the girl. "Here are your sword and cloak, Mal  colm. I thank you for their use. Don them
                        quickly." I did so, and walked into Sir George's room,
                        where that worthy old gentleman was dressing a slight wound in the hand. I
                        stopped to speak with him; but he seemed disinclined to talk, and I left the
                        room. He soon went to the upper court, and I presently followed him.
                    Dorothy changed her garments, and she, Lady Crawford, and Madge also came to
                        the upper court. The braziers in the courtyard had been lighted and cast a
                        glare over two score half-clothed men and women who had been aroused from
                        their beds by the commotion of the conflict on the hillside. Upon the upper
                        steps of the courtyard stood Sir George and Jennie Faxton.
                    "Who was the man you were with?" roughly demanded Sir
                        George of the trembling Jennie. Jennie's trembling was assumed for
                        the occasion.
                    "I will not tell you his name," she replied with tears.
                    "He is my sweetheart, and I will never come to the Hall again.
                        Matters have come to a pretty pass when a maiden cannot speak with her
                        sweetheart at the stile without he is set upon and beaten as if he were a
                        hedgehog. My father is your leal henchman, and his daughter deserves better
                        treatment at your hands than you have given me."
                    "There, there!" said Sir George, placing his hand upon her
                        head. "I was in the wrong. I did not know you had a sweetheart who
                        wore a sword. When I saw you at the stile, I was sure you were another. I am
                        glad I was wrong." So was Dorothy glad.
                    "Everybody be off to bed," said Sir George. "Ben
                        Shaw, see that the braziers are all blackened."
                    Dorothy, Madge, and Lady Crawford returned to the latter's room, and
                        Sir George and I entered after them. He was evidently softened in heart by
                        the night's adventures and by the mistake he supposed he had
                        made.
                    
                    A selfish man grows hard toward those whom he injures. A generous heart grows
                        tender. Sir George was generous, and the injustice he thought he had done to
                        Dorothy made him eager to offer amends. The active evil in all Sir
                        George's wrong-doing was the fact that he conscientiously thought
                        he was in the right. Many a man has gone to hell backward—with his
                        face honestly toward heaven. Sir George had not spoken to Dorothy since the
                        scene wherein the key to Bowling Green Gate played so important a part.
                    "Doll," said Sir George, "I thought you were at
                        the stile with a man. I was mistaken. It was the Faxton girl. I beg your
                        pardon, my daughter. I did you wrong."
                    "You do me wrong in many matters, father," replied
                        Dorothy.
                    "Perhaps I do," her father returned, "perhaps I
                        do, but I mean for the best. I seek your happiness."
                    "You take strange measures at times, father, to bring about my
                        happiness," she replied.
                    "Whom God loveth He chasteneth," replied Sir George,
                        dolefully.
                    "That manner of loving may be well enough for God,"
                        retorted Dorothy with no thought of irreverence, "but for man it is
                        dangerous. Whom man loves he should cherish. A man who has a good, obedient
                        daughter—one who loves him—will not imprison her, and,
                        above all, he will not refuse to speak to her, nor will he cause her to
                        suffer and to weep for lack of that love which is her right. A man has no
                        right to bring a girl into this world and then cause her to suffer as
                        you—as you—" She ceased speaking and sought
                        refuge in silent feminine eloquence—tears. One would have sworn she
                        had been grievously injured that night.
                    "But I am older than you, Doll, and I know what is best for your
                        happiness," said Sir George.
                    "There are some things, father, which a girl knows with  better, surer knowledge than the oldest man
                        living. Solomon was wise because he had so many wives from whom he could
                        absorb wisdom."
                    "Ah, well!" answered Sir George, smiling in spite of
                        himself, "you will have the last word."
                    "Confess, father," she retorted quickly, "that you
                        want the last word yourself."
                    "Perhaps I do want it, but I'll never have it,"
                        returned Sir George;" kiss me, Doll, and be my child
                        again."
                    "That I will right gladly," she answered, throwing her arms
                        about her father's neck and kissing him with real affection. Then
                        Sir George said good night and started to leave. At the door he stopped, and
                        stood for a little time in thought.
                    "Dorothy," said he, speaking to Lady Crawford, "I
                        relieve you of your duty as a guard over Doll. She may go and come when she
                        chooses."
                    "I thank you, George," said Aunt Dorothy. "The
                        task has been painful to me."
                    Dorothy went to her father and kissed him again, and Sir George departed.
                    When the door was closed, Lady Crawford breathed a great sigh and said:
                        "I thank Heaven, Dorothy, he does not know that you have been out
                        of your room. How could you treat me so cruelly? How could you deceive
                        me?"
                    "That, Aunt Dorothy," replied the niece, "is
                        because you are not old enough yet to be a match for a girl who
                        is—who is in love."
                    "Shame upon you, Dorothy!" said Lady Crawford.
                    "Shame upon you, to act as you did, and now to speak so plainly
                        about being in love! Malcolm said you were not a modest girl, and I am
                        beginning to believe him."
                    "Did Malcolm speak so ill of me?" asked Dorothy, turning
                        toward me with a smile in her eyes.
                    
                    "My lady aunt," said I, turning to Lady Crawford,
                        "when did I say that Dorothy was an immodest girl?"
                    "You did not say it," the old lady admitted.
                        "Dorothy herself said it, and she proves her words to be true by
                        speaking so boldly of her feelings toward this—this strange man.
                        And she speaks before Madge, too."
                    "Perhaps Madge is in the same sort of trouble. Who knows?"
                        cried Dorothy, laughing heartily. Madge blushed painfully.
                        "But," continued Dorothy, seriously, "I am not
                        ashamed of it; I am proud of it. For what else, my dear aunt, was I created
                        but to be in love? Tell me, dear aunt, for what else was I
                        created?"
                    "Perhaps you are right," returned the old lady, who in fact
                        was sentimentally inclined.
                    "The chief end of woman, after all, is to love," said
                        Dorothy. "What would become of the human race if it were
                        not?"
                    "Child, child," cried the aunt, "where learned you
                        such things?"
                    "They were written upon my mother's breast,"
                        continued Dorothy, "and I learned them when I took in my life with
                        her milk. I pray they may be written upon my breast some day, if God in His
                        goodness shall ever bless me with a baby girl. A man child could not read
                        the words."
                    "Dorothy, Dorothy!" cried Lady Crawford, "you
                        shock me. You pain me."
                    "Again I ask," responded Dorothy, "for what else
                        was I created? I tell you, Aunt Dorothy, the world decrees that women shall
                        remain in ignorance, in pretended ignorance—in silence at
                        least—regarding the things concerning which they have the greatest
                        need to be wise and talkative."
                    "At your age, Dorothy, I did not have half your wisdom on the
                        subject," answered Lady Crawford.
                    
                    "Tell me, my sweet Aunt Dorothy, were you really in a state of
                        ignorance such as you would have me believe?"
                    "Well," responded the old lady, hesitatingly, "I
                        did not speak of such matters."
                    "Why, aunt, did you not?" asked Dorothy. "Were you
                        ashamed of what God had done? Were you ashamed of His great purpose in
                        creating you a woman, and in creating your mother and your mother's
                        mother before you?"
                    "No, no, child; no, no. But I cannot argue with you. Perhaps you are
                        right," said Aunt Dorothy.
                    "Then tell me, dear aunt, that I am not immodest and bold when I
                        speak concerning that of which my heart is full to overflowing. God put it
                        there, aunt, not I. Surely I am not immodest by reason of His
                        act."
                    "No, no, my sweet child," returned Aunt Dorothy, beginning
                        to weep softly. "No, no, you are not immodest. You are worth a
                        thousand weak fools such as I was at your age."
                    Poor Aunt Dorothy had been forced into a marriage which had wrecked her life.
                        Dorothy's words opened her aunt's eyes to the fact that
                        the girl whom she so dearly loved was being thrust by Sir George into the
                        same wretched fate through which she had dragged her own suffering heart for
                        so many years. From that hour she was Dorothy's ally.
                    "Good night, Malcolm," said Lady Crawford, offering me her
                        hand. I kissed it tenderly; then I kissed the sweet old lady's
                        cheek and said:—
                    "I love you with all my heart, Aunt Dorothy."
                    "I thank you, Malcolm," she returned.
                    I took my leave, and soon Madge went to her room, leaving Dorothy and Lady
                        Crawford together.
                    When Madge had gone the two Dorothys, one at each end of life, spanned the
                        long years that separated them,  and became
                        one in heart by reason of a heartache common to both.
                    Lady Crawford seated herself and Dorothy knelt by her chair.
                    "Tell me, Dorothy," said the old lady, "tell me,
                        do you love this man so tenderly, so passionately that you cannot give him
                        up?"
                    "Ah, my dear aunt," the girl responded, "words
                        cannot tell. You cannot tell. You cannot know what I feel."
                    "Alas! I know only too well, my child. I, too, loved a man when I
                        was your age, and none but God knows what I suffered when I was forced by my
                        parents and the priests to give him up, and to wed one whom—God
                        help me—I loathed."
                    "Oh, my sweet aunt!" cried Dorothy softly, throwing her
                        arms about the old lady's neck and kissing her cheek.
                    "How terribly you must have suffered!"
                    "Yes," responded Lady Crawford, "and I am resolved
                        you shall not endure the same fate. I hope the man who has won your love is
                        worthy of you. Do not tell me his name, for I do not wish to practise
                        greater deception toward your father than I must. But you may tell me of his
                        station in life, and of his person, that I may know he is not unworthy of
                        you."
                    "His station in life," answered Dorothy, "is far
                        better than mine. In person he is handsome beyond any woman's
                        wildest dream of manly beauty. In character he is noble, generous, and good.
                        He is far beyond my deserts, Aunt Dorothy."
                    "Then why does he not seek your hand from your father?"
                        asked the aunt.
                    "That I may not tell you, Aunt Dorothy," returned the girl,
                        "unless you would have me tell you his name, and that I dare not
                        do. Although he is vastly my superior in station, in blood, and in
                        character, still my father would  kill me
                        before he would permit me to marry this man of my choice; and I, dear aunt,
                        fear I shall die if I have him not."
                    Light slowly dawned upon Aunt Dorothy's mind, and she exclaimed in a
                        terrified whisper:—
                    "My God, child, is it he?"
                    "Yes," responded the girl, "yes, it is
                        he."
                    Do not speak his name, Dorothy," the old lady said. "Do not
                        speak his name. So long as you do not tell me, I cannot know with certainty
                        who he is." After a pause Aunt Dorothy continued,
                        "Perhaps, child, it was his father whom I loved and was compelled
                        to give up."
                    "May the blessed Virgin pity us, sweet aunt," cried
                        Dorothy, caressingly.
                    "And help us," returned Lady Crawford. "I, too,
                        shall help you," she continued. "It will be through
                        nofault of mine if your life is wasted as mine has been."
                    Dorothy kissed her aunt and retired.
                    Next morning when Dorothy arose a song came from her heart as it comes from
                        the skylark when it sees the sun at dawn—because it cannot help
                        singing. It awakened Aunt Dorothy, and she began to live her life anew, in
                        brightness, as she steeped her soul in the youth and joyousness of Dorothy
                        Vernon's song.
                    I have spoken before in this chronicle of Will Dawson. He was a Conformer.
                        Possibly it was by reason of his religious faith that he did not share the
                        general enmity that existed in Haddon Hall against the house of Rutland. He
                        did not, at the time of which I speak, know Sir John Manners, and he did not
                        suspect that the heir to Rutland was the man who had of late been causing so
                        much trouble to the house of Vernon. At least, if he did suspect it, no one
                        knew of his suspicions.
                    Sir George made a great effort to learn who the mysterious interloper was,
                        but he wholly failed to obtain any clew  to
                        his identity. He had jumped to the conclusion that Dorothy's
                        mysterious lover was a man of low degree. He had taken for granted that he
                        was an adventurer whose station and person precluded him from openly wooing
                        his daughter. He did not know that the heir to Rutland was in the Derbyshire
                        country; for John, after his first meeting with Dorothy, had carefully
                        concealed his presence from everybody save the inmates of Rutland. In fact,
                        his mission to Rutland required secrecy, and the Rutland servants and
                        retainers were given to understand as much. Even had Sir George known of
                        John's presence at Rutland, the old gentleman's mind could
                        not have compassed the thought that Dorothy, who, he believed, hated the
                        rase of Manners with an intensity equalled only by his own feelings, could
                        be induced to exchange a word with a member of the house. His uncertainty
                        was not the least of his troubles; and although Dorothy had full liberty to
                        come and go at will, her father kept constant watch over her. As a matter of
                        fact, Sir George had given Dorothy liberty partly for the purpose of
                        watching her, and he hoped to discover thereby and, if possible, to capture
                        the man who had brought trouble to his household. Sir George had once hanged
                        a man to a tree on Bowling Green Hill by no other authority than his own
                        desire. That execution was the last in England under the old Saxon law of
                        Infangthef and Outfangthef. Sir George had been summoned before Parliament
                        for the deed; but the writ had issued against the King of the Peak, and that
                        being only a sobriquet, was neither Sir George's name nor his
                        title. So the writ was quashed, and the high-handed act of personal justice
                        was not farther investigated by the authorities. Should my cousin capture
                        his daughter's lover, there would certainly be another execution
                        under the old Saxon law. So you see that my friend Manners was tickling
                        death with a straw for Dorothy's sake.
                    
                    One day Dawson approached Sir George and told him that a man sought
                        employment in the household of Haddon Hall. Sir George placed great
                        confidence in his forester; so he told Dawson to employ the man if his
                        services were needed. The new servant proved to be a fine, strong fellow,
                        having a great shock of carrot-colored hair and a bushy beard of rusty
                        red.
                    Dawson engaged the newcomer, and assigned to him the duty of kindling the
                        fires in the family apartments of the Hall. The name of the new servant was
                        Thomas Thompson, a name that Dorothy soon abbreviated to Tom-Tom
                    One day she said to him, by way of opening the acquaintance,
                        "Thomas, you and I should be goodfriends; we have so much in
                        common."
                    "Thank you, my lady," responded Thomas, greatly pleased.
                        "I hope we shall be good friends; indeed, indeed I do, but I cannot
                        tell wherein I am so fortunate as to have anything in common with your
                        Ladyship. What is it, may I ask, of which we have so much in
                        common?"
                    "So much hair," responded Dorothy, laughing.
                    "It were blasphemy, lady, to compare my hair with yours,"
                        returned Thomas. "Your hair, I make sure, is such as the blessed
                        Virgin had. I ask your pardon for speaking so plainly; but your words put
                        the thought into my mind, and perhaps they gave me license to
                        speak."
                    Thomas was on his knees, placing wood upon the fire.
                    "Thomas," returned Dorothy, "you need never
                        apologize to a lady for making so fine a speech. I declare a courtier could
                        not have made a better one."
                    "Perhaps I have lived among courtiers, lady," said
                        Thomas.
                    "I doubt not," replied Dorothy, derisively. "You
                        would save me believe you are above your station. It is the way  with all new servants. I suppose you have
                        seen fine company and better days."
                    "I have never seen finer company than now, and I have never known
                        better days than this," responded courtier Thomas. Dorothy thought
                        he was presuming on her condescension, and was about to tell him so when he
                        continued: "The servants at Haddon Hall are gentlefolk compared
                        with servants at other places where I have worked, and I desire nothing more
                        than to find favor in Sir George's eyes. I would do anything to
                        achieve that end."
                    Dorothy was not entirely reassured by Thomas's closing words; but
                        even if they were presumptuous, she admired his wit in giving them an
                        inoffensive turn. From that day forth the acquaintance grew between the
                        servant and mistress until it reached the point of familiarity at which
                        Dorothy dubbed him Tom-Tom.
                    Frequently Dorothy was startled by remarks made by Thomas, having in them a
                        strong dash of familiarity; but he always gave to his words a harmless turn
                        before she could resent them. At times, however, she was not quite sure of
                        his intention.
                    Within a week after Thomas's advent to the hall, Dorothy began to
                        suspect that the new servant looked upon her with eyes of great favor. She
                        frequently caught him watching her, and at such times his eyes, which
                        Dorothy thought were really very fine, would glow with an ardorall too
                        evident. His manner was cause for amusement rather than concern, and since
                        she felt kindly toward the new servant, she thought to create a faithful
                        ally by treating him graciously. She might, she thought, need
                        Thomas's help when the time should come for her to leave Haddon
                        Hall with John, if that happy time should ever come. She did not realize
                        that the most dangerous, watchful enemy to her cherished scheme would be a
                             man who was himself in love with her,
                        even though he were a servant, and she looked on Thomas's evident
                        infatuation with a smile. She did not once think that in the end it might
                        cause her great trouble, so she accepted his mute admiration, and thought to
                        make use of it later on. To Tom, therefore, Dorothy was gracious.
                    John had sent word to Dorothy, by Jennie Faxton, that he had gone to London,
                        and would be there for a fortnight or more.
                    Sir George had given permission to his daughter to ride out whenever she
                        wished to do so, but he had ordered that Dawson or I should follow in the
                        capacity of spy, and Dorothy knew of the censorship, though she pretended
                        ignorance of it. So long as John was in London she did not care who followed
                        her; but I well knew that when Manners should return, Dorothy would again
                        begin manœuvring, and that by some cunning trick she would see
                        him.
                    One afternoon I was temporarily absent from the Hall and Dorothy wished to
                        ride. Dawson was engaged, and when Dorothy had departed, he ordered Tom to
                        ride after his mistress at a respectful distance. Nearly a fortnight had
                        passed since John had gone to London, and when Dorothy rode forth that
                        afternoon she was beginning to hope he might have returned, and that by some
                        delightful possibility he might then be loitering about the old
                        trystingplace at Bowling Green Gate. There was a half-unconscious conviction
                        in her heart that he would be there. She determined, therefore, to ride
                        toward Rowsley, to cross the Wye at her former fording-place, and to go up
                        to Bowling Green Gate on the Devonshire side of the Haddon wall. She had no
                        reason, other than the feeling born of her wishes, to believe that John
                        would be there; but she loved the spot for the sake of the memories which
                        hovered about it. She well knew that some one would follow her from the
                        Hall; but she felt sure that in case the spy 
                        proved to be Dawson or myself, she could easily arrange matters to her
                        satisfaction, if by good fortune she should find her lover at the gate.
                    Tom rode so far behind his mistress that she could not determine who was
                        following her. Whenever she brought Dolcy to a walk, Tom-Tom also walked his
                        horse. When Dorothy galloped, he galloped; but after Dorothy had crossed the
                        Wye and had taken the wall over into the Devonshire lands, Tom also crossed
                        the river and wall and quickly rode to her side. He uncovered and bowed low
                        with a familiarity of manner that startled her. The act of riding up to her
                        and the manner in which he took his place by her side were presumptuous to
                        the point of insolence, and his attitude, although not openly offensive, was
                        slightly alarming. She put Dolcy to a gallop; but the servant who, she
                        thought, was presuming on her former graciousness, kept close at
                        Dolcy's heels. The man was a stranger, and she knew nothing of his
                        character. She was alone in the forest with him, and she did not know to
                        what length his absurd passion for her might lead him. She was alarmed, but
                        she despised cowardice, although she knew herself to be a coward, and she
                        determined to ride to the gate, which was but a short distance ahead of her.
                        She resolved that if the insolent fellow continued his familiarity, she
                        would teach him a lesson he would never forget. When she was within a short
                        distance of the gate she sprang from Dolcy and handed her rein to her
                        servant. John was not there, but she went to the gate in the hope that a
                        letter might be hidden beneath the stone bench where Jennie was wont to find
                        them in times past. Dorothy found no letter, but she could not resist the
                        temptation to sit down upon the bench where he and she had sat, and to dream
                        over the happy moments she had spent there. Tom, instead of holding the
                        horses, hitched them, and walked toward Dorothy. That act on  the part of her servant was effrontery of the
                        most insolent sort. Will Dawson himself would not have dared do such a
                        thing. It filled her with alarm, and as Tom approached she was trying to
                        determine in what manner she would cursh him. But when the audacious Thomas,
                        having reached the gate, seated himself beside his mistress on the stone
                        bench, the girl sprang to her feet in fright and indignation. She began to
                        realize the extent of her foolhardiness in going to that secluded spot with
                        a stranger.
                    "How are you approach me in this insolent fashion?" cried
                        Dorothy, breathless with fear.
                    "Mistress Vernon," responded Thomas, looking boldly up into
                        her pale face, "I wager you a gold pound sterling that if you
                        permit me to remain here by your side ten minutes you will be
                        unwilling—"
                    "John, John!" cried the girl, exultantly. Tom snatched the
                        red beard from his face, and Dorothy, after one fleeting, luminous look into
                        his eyes, fell upon her knees and buried her face in her hands. She wept,
                        and John, bending over the kneeling girl, kissed her sunlit hair.
                    "Cruel, cruel," sobbed Dorothy. Then she lifted her head
                        and clasped her hands about his neck. "Is it not strange,"
                        she continued, "that I should have felt so sure of seeing you? My
                        reason kept telling me that my hopes were absurd, but a stronger feeling
                        full of the breath of certainty seemed to assure me that you would be here.
                        It impelled me to come, though I feared you after we crossed the wall. But
                        reason, fear, and caution were powerless to keep me away."
                    "You did not know my voice," said John, "nor did
                        you penetrate my disguise. You once said that you would recognize me though
                        I wore all the petticoats in Derbyshire."
                    "Please don't jest with me now," pleaded Dorothy.
                        "I cannot bear it. Great joy is harder to endure than great grief.
                        Why did you not reveal yourself to me at the Hall?" she asked
                        plaintively.
                    
                    "I found no opportunity," returned John, "others
                        were always present."
                    I shall tell you nothing that followed. It is no affair of yours nor of
                        mine.
                    They were overjoyed in being together once more. Neither of them seemed to
                        realize that John, while living under Sir George's roof, was facing
                        death every moment. To Dorothy, the fact that John, who was heir to one of
                        England's noblest houses, was willing for her sake to become a
                        servant, to do a servant's work, and to receive the indignities
                        constantly put upon a servant, appealed most powerfully. It added to her
                        feeling for him a tenderness which is not necessarily a part of passionate
                        love.
                    It is needless for me to tell you that while John performed faithfully the
                        duty of keeping bright the fires in Haddon Hall, he did not neglect the
                        other flame—the one in Dorothy's heart—for the
                        sake of whose warmth he had assumed the leathern garb of servitude and had
                        placed his head in the lion's mouth.
                    At first he and Dorothy used great caution in exchanging words and glances,
                        but familiarity with danger breeds contempt for it. So they utilized every
                        opportunity that niggard chance offered, and blinded by their great longing
                        soon began to make opportunities for speech with each other, thereby
                        bringing trouble to Dorothy and deadly peril to John. Of that I shall soon
                        tell you.
                    During the period of John's service in Haddon Hall negotiations for
                        Dorothy's marriage with Lord Stanley were progressing slowly but
                        surely. Arrangements for the marriage settlement by the Stanleys, and for
                        Dorothy's dower to be given by Sir George, were matters that the
                        King of the Peak approached boldly as he would have met any other affair of
                        business. But the Earl of Derby, whose mind moved slowly, desriring that a
                        gererous portion of the Vernon wealth should be transferred with Dorothy  to the Stanley holdings without the delay
                        incident to Sir George's death, put off signing the articles of
                        marriage in his effort to augment the cash payment. In truth, the great
                        wealth which Dorothy would bring to the house of Stanley was the
                        earl's real reason for desiring her marriage with his son. The earl
                        was heavily in debt, and his estate stood in dire need of help.
                    Sir George, though attracted by the high nobility of the house of Stanley,
                        did not relish the thought that the wealth he had accumulated by his own
                        efforts, and the Vernon estates which had come down to him through
                        centuries, should go to pay Lord Derby's debts. He therefore
                        insisted that Dorothy's dower should be her separate estate, and
                        demanded that it should remain untouched and untouchable by either of the
                        Stanleys. That arrangement did not suit my lord earl, and although the son
                        since he had seen Dorothy at Derby-town was eager to possess the beautiful
                        girl, his father did not share his ardor. Lawyers were called in who looked
                        expensively wise, but they accomplished the purpose for which they were
                        employed. An agreement of marriage was made and was drawn up on an imposing
                        piece of parchment, brave with ribbons, pompous with seals, and fair in
                        clerkly penmanship.
                    One day Sir George showed me the copy of the contract which had been prepared
                        for him. That evening at the cost of much labor he and I went over the
                        indenture word for word, and when we had finished Sir George thought it was
                        very good indeed. He seemed to think that all difficulties in the way of the
                        marriage were overcome when the agreement that lay before us on the table
                        had been achieved between him and the earl. I knew Sir George's
                        troubles had only begun; for I was aware of a fact which it seemed
                        impossible for him to learn, though of late Dorothy had given him much
                        teaching thereto. I knew that he had transmitted to his daughter a large
                        portion of his own  fierce, stubborn,
                        unbreakable will, and that in her it existed in its most deadly
                        form—the feminine. To me after supper that night was assigned the
                        task of reading and rereading many times to Sir George the contents of the
                        beautiful parchment. When I would read a clause that particularly pleased my
                        cousin, he insisted on celebrating the event by drinking a mug of liquor
                        drawn from a huge leather stoup which sat upon the table between us. By the
                        time I had made several readings of the interesting document the characters
                        began to mingle in a way that did not impart ease and clearness to my style.
                        Some of the strange combinations which I and the liquor extracted from amid
                        the seals and ribbons puzzled Sir George not a little. But with each new
                        libation he found new clauses and fresh causes for self-congratulation,
                        though to speak exact truth I more than once married Sir George to the Earl
                        of Derby, and in my profanity gave Lord James Stanley to the devil to have
                        and to hold.
                    Sir George was rapidly falling before his mighty enemy, drink, and I was not
                        far behind him, though I admit the fault with shame. My cousin for a while
                        was mightily pleased with the contract; but when the liquor had brought him
                        to a point where he was entirely candid with himself, he let slip the fact
                        that after all there was regret at the bottom of the goblet, metaphorically
                        and actually. Before his final surrender to drink he dropped the immediate
                        consideration of the contract and said:—
                    "Malcolm, I have in my time known many fools, but if you will permit
                        an old man, who loves you dearly, to make a plain statement of his
                        conviction—"
                    "Certainly," I interrupted.
                    "It would be a great relief to me," he continued,
                        "to say that I believe you to be the greatest fool the good God
                        ever permitted to live."
                    "I am sure, Sir George, that your condescending flattery is very
                        pleasing," I said.
                    
                    Sir George, unmindful of my remark, continued, "Your disease is not
                        usually a deadly malady, as a look about you will easily show; but, Malcolm,
                        if you were one whit more of a fool, you certainly would
                        perish."
                    I was not offended, for I knew that my cousin meant no offence.
                    "Then, Sir George, if the time ever comes when I wish to commit
                        suicide, I have always at hand an easy, painless mode of death. I shall
                        become only a little more of a fool." I laughingly said,
                        "I will do my utmost to absorb a little wisdom now and then as a
                        preventive."
                    "Never a bit of wisdom will you ever absorb. A man who would refuse
                        a girl whose wealth and beauty are as great as Dorothy's, is past
                        all hope. I often awaken in the dark corners of the night when a
                        man's troubles stalk about his bed like livid demons; and when I
                        think that all of this evil which has come up between Dorothy and me, and
                        all of this cursed estrangement which is eating out my heart could have been
                        averted if you had consented to marry her, I cannot but
                        feel—"
                    "But, Sir George," I interrupted, "it was Dorothy,
                        not I, who refused. She could never have been brought to marry
                        me."
                    "Don't tell me, Malcolm; don't tell me,"
                        cried the old man, angrily. Drink had made Sir George sullen and violent. It
                        made me happy at first; but with liquor in excess there always came to me a
                        sort of frenzy.
                    "Don't tell me," continued Sir George.
                        "There never lived a Vernon who couldn't win a woman if he
                        would try. But put all that aside. She would have obeyed me. I would have
                        forced her to marry you, and she would have thanked me
                        afterward."
                    "You could never have forced her to marry me," I
                        replied.
                    "But that I could and that I would have done," said Sir
                        George. "The like is done every day. Girls in these  modern times are all perverse, but they are
                        made to yield. Take the cases of Sir Thomas Mobley, Sir Grant Rhodas, and
                        William Kimm. Their daughters all refused to marry the men chosen for them,
                        but the wenches were made to yield. If I had a daughter who refused to obey
                        me, I would break her; I would break her. Yes, by God, I would break her if
                        I had to kill her," and the old man brought his clenched hand down
                        upon the oak table with a crash. His eyes glared frightfully, and his face
                        bore a forbidding expression which boded no good for Dorothy.
                    "She will make trouble in this matter," Sir George
                        continued, tapping the parchment with his middle finger.
                    "She will make trouble about this; but, by God, Malcolm, she shall
                        obey me."
                    He struck the oaken table another great blow with his fist, and glared
                        fiercely across at me.
                    "Lord Wyatt had trouble with his daughter when he made the marriage
                        with Devonshire," continued Sir George. "A damned good
                        match it was, too, for the girl. But she had her heart set on young Gillman,
                        and she refused to obey her father. She refused, by God, point blank, to
                        obey her father. She refused to obey the man who had given her life. What
                        did Wyatt do? He was a man who knew what a child owes to its father, and, by
                        God, Malcolm, after trying every other means to bring the wench to her
                        senses, after he had tried persuasion, after having in two priests and a
                        bishop to show her how badly she was acting, and after he had tried to
                        reason with her, he whipped her; yes, he whipped her till she
                        bled—till she bled, Malcolm, I tell you. Ah, Wyatt knew what is due
                        from a child to its parents. The whipping failed to bring the perverse huzzy
                        to obedience, so Wyatt threw her into a dungeon and starved her
                        till—till—"
                    "Till she died," I interrupted.
                    "Yes, till she died," mumbled Sir George, sullenly,
                        "till she died, and it served her right, by God, served her
                        right."
                    
                    The old man was growing very drunk, and everything was beginning to appear
                        distorted to me. Sir George rose to his feet, leaned toward me with glaring
                        eyes, struck the table a terrible blow with his fist, and
                        said:—
                    "By the blood of God I swear that if Doll refuses to marry Stanley,
                        and persists in her refusal, I'll whip her. Wyatt is a man after my
                        own heart. I'll starve her. I'll kill her. Ay, if I loved
                        her ten thousand times more than I do, I would kill her or she should obey
                        me."
                    Then dawned upon me a vision of terrible possibilities. I was sure Sir George
                        could not force Dorothy to marry against her will; but I feared lest he
                        might kill her in his effort to "break her." I do not mean
                        that I feared he would kill her by a direct act, unless he should do so in a
                        moment of frenzy induced by drink and passion, but I did fear for the
                        results of the breaking process. The like had often happened. It had
                        happened in the case of Wyatt's daughter. Dorothy under the
                        intoxicating influence of her passion might become so possessed by the
                        spirit of a martyr that she could calmly take a flogging, but my belief was
                        that should matters proceed to that extreme, should Sir George flog his
                        daughter, the chords of her highly strung nature would snap under the
                        tension, and she would die. I loved Dorothy for the sake of her fierce,
                        passionate, tender heart, and because she loved me; and even in my sober,
                        reflective moments I had resolved that my life, ay, and Sir
                        George's life also, should stand between the girl and the lash. If
                        in calmness I could deliberately form such a resolution, imagine the effect
                        on my liquor-crazed brain of Sir George's words and the vista of
                        horrors they disclosed. I was intoxicated. I was drunk. I say it with shame;
                        and on hearing Sir George's threat my half-frenzied imagination ran
                        riot into the foreboding future.
                    All the candles, save one tottering wick, were dead in their sockets, and the
                        room was filled with lowering phantom-like 
                        shadows from oaken floor to grimy vaulted roof beams. Sir George, hardly
                        conscious of what he did and said, all his evil passions quickened with
                        drink, leaned his hands upon the table and glared across at me. He seemed to
                        be the incarnation of rage and ferocity, to so great a pitch had he wrought
                        himself. The sputtering candle feebly flickered, and seemed to give its dim
                        light only that the darksome shadows might flit and hover about us like
                        vampires on the scent of blood. A cold perspiration induced by a nameless
                        fear came upon me, and in that dark future to which my heated imagination
                        travelled I saw, as if revealed by black magic, fair, sweet, generous
                        Dorothy, standing piteously upon Bowling Green hillside. Over her drooping
                        form there hung in air a monster cloudlike image of her father holding in
                        its hand a deadly bludgeon. So black, so horrid was this shadow-demon that I
                        sprang from my chair with a frightful oath, and shrieked:—
                    "Hell is made for man because of his cruelty to woman."
                    Sir George had sunk into his chair. Liquor had finished its work, and the old
                        man, resting his head upon his folded arms, leaned forward on the table. He
                        was drunk—dead to the world. How long I stood in frenzied stupor
                        gazing at shadow-stricken Dorothy upon the hillside I do not know. It must
                        have been several minutes. Blood of Christ, how vividly I remember the
                        vision! The sunny radiance of the girl's hair was darkened and
                        dead. Her bending attitude was one of abject grief. Her hands covered her
                        face, and she was the image of woe. Suddenly she lifted her head with the
                        quick impulsive movement so familiar in her, and with a cry eloquent as a
                        child's wail for its mother called, "John," and
                        held out her arms imploringly toward the dim shadowy form of her lover
                        standing upon the hill crest. Then John's form began to fade, and
                        as its shadowy essence grew dim,  despair
                        slowly stole like a mask of death over Dorothy's face. She stood
                        for a moment gazing vacantly into space. Then she fell to the ground, the
                        shadow of her father hovering over her prostrate form, and the words,
                        "Dead, dead, dead," came to me in horrifying whispers from
                        every dancing shadow-demon in the room.
                    In trying to locate the whispers as they reverberated from floor to oaken
                        rafters, I turned and saw Sir George. He looked as if he were dead.
                    "Why should you not be dead in fact?" I cried.
                        "You would kill your daughter. Why should I not kill you? That will
                        solve the whole question."
                    I revelled in the thought; I drank it in; I nursed it; I cuddled it; I kissed
                        it. Nature's brutish love for murder had deluged my soul. I put my
                        hand to my side for the purpose of drawing my sword or my knife. I had
                        neither with me. Then I remember staggering toward the fireplace to get one
                        of the fire-irons with which to kill my cousin. I remember that when I
                        grasped the fire-iron, by the strange working of habit I employed it for the
                        moment in its proper use; and as I began to stir the embers on the hearth,
                        my original purpose was forgotten. That moment of habit-wrought
                        forgetfulness saved me and saved Sir George's life. I remember that
                        I sank into the chair in front of the fireplace, holding the iron, and I
                        thank God that I remember nothing more.
                    During the night the servants aroused me, and I staggered up the stone
                        stairway of Eagle Tower and clambered into my room.
                    The next morning I awakened feeling ill. There was a taste in my mouth as if
                        I had been chewing a piece of the devil's boot over night. I wanted
                        no breakfast, so I climbed to the top of the tower, hoping the fresh morning
                        breeze might cool my head and cleanse my mouth. For a moment or two I stood
                        on the tower roof bareheaded and openmouthed 
                        while I drank in the fresh, purifying air. The sweet draught helped me
                        physically; but all the winds of Boreas could not have blown out of my head
                        the vision of the previous night. The question, "Was it
                        prophetic?" kept ringing in my ears, answerless save by a
                        superstitious feeling of fear. Then the horrid thought that I had only by a
                        mere chance missed becoming a murderer came upon me, and again was crowded
                        from my mind by the memory of Dorothy and the hovering spectre which had
                        hung over her head on Bowling Green hillside.
                    I walked to the north side of the tower and on looking down the first perosn
                        I saw was our new servant, Thomas, holding two horses at the mounting stand.
                        One of them was Dolcy, and I, feeling that a brisk ride with Dorothy would
                        help me to throw off my wretchedness, quickly descended the tower stairs,
                        stopped at my room for my hat and cloak, and walked around to the mounting
                        block. Dorothy was going to ride, and I supposed she would prefer me to the
                        new servant as a companion.
                    I asked Thomas if his mistress were going out for a ride, and he replied
                        affirmatively.
                    "Who is to accompany her?" I asked.
                    "She gave orders for me to go with her," he answered.
                    "Very well," I responded, "take your horse back to
                        the stable and fetch mine." The man hesitated, and twice he began
                        to make reply, but finally he said:—
                    "Very well, Sir Malcolm."
                    He hitched Dolcy to the ring in the mounting block and started back toward
                        the stable leading his own horse. At that moment Dorothy came out of the
                        tower gate, dressed for the ride. Surely no women was ever more beautiful
                        than she that morning.
                    "Tom-Tom, where are you taking the horse?" she cried.
                    "To the stable, Mistress," answered the servant.
                        "Sir Malcolm says he will go with you."
                    
                    Dorothy's joyousness vanished. From radiant brightness her
                        expression changed in the twinkling of an eye to a look of disappointment so
                        sorrowful that I at once knew there was some great reason why she did not
                        wish me to ride with her. I could not divine the reason, neither did I try.
                        I quickly said to Thomas:—
                    "Do not bring my horse. If Mistress Vernon will excuse me, I shall
                        not ride with her this morning. I forgot for the moment that I had not
                        breakfasted."
                    Again came to Dorothy's face the radiant look of joy as if to affirm
                        what it had already told me. I looked toward Thomas, and his eyes, too, were
                        alight. I could make nothing of it. Thomas was a fine-looking fellow,
                        notwithstanding his preposterous hair and beard; but I felt sure there could
                        be no understanding between the man and his mistress.
                    When Thomas and Dorothy had mounted, she timidly ventured to
                        say:—
                    "We are sorry, Cousin Malcolm, that you cannot ride with
                        us."
                    She did not give me an opportunity to change my mind, but struck Dolcy a
                        sharp blow with her whip that sent the spirited mare galloping toward the
                        dove-cote, and Thomas quickly followed at a respectful distance. From the
                        dovecote Dorothy took the path down the Wye toward Rowsley. I, of course,
                        connected her strange conduct with John. When a young woman who is well
                        balanced physically, mentally, and morally acts in a strange, unusual
                        manner, you may depend on it there is a man somewhere behind her motive.
                    I knew that John was in London. Only the night before I had received word
                        from Rutland Castle that he had not returned, and that he was not expected
                        home for many days.
                    So I concluded that John could not be behind my fair  cousin's motive. I tried to stop guessing at the
                        riddle Dorothy had set me, but my effort was useless. I wondered and thought
                        and guessed, but I brought to myself only the answer, "Great is the
                        mystery of womanhood."
                    After Dorothy had ridden away I again climbed to the top of Eagle Tower and
                        saw the riders cross the Wye at Dorothy's former fording-place, and
                        take the wall. I then did a thing that fills me with shame when I think of
                        it. For the only time in my whole life I acted the part of a spy. I hurried
                        to Bowling Green Gate, and horror upon horror, there I beheld my cousin
                        Dorothy in the arms of Thomas, the man-servant. I do not know why the truth
                        of Thomas's identity did not dawn upon me, but it did not, and I
                        stole away from the gate, thinking that Dorothy, after all, was no better
                        than the other women I had known at various times in my life, and I resolved
                        to tell John what I had seen. You must remember that the women I had known
                        were of the courts of Mary Stuart and of Guise, and the less we say about
                        them the better. God pity them! Prior to my acquaintance with Dorothy and
                        Madge I had always considered a man to be a fool who would put his faith in
                        womankind. To me women were as good as men,—no better, no worse.
                        But with my knowledge of those two girls there had grown up in me a faith in
                        woman's virtue which in my opinion is man's greatest
                        comforter; the lack of it his greatest torment.
                    I went back to Eagle Tower and stood at my window looking down the Wye,
                        hoping soon to see Dorothy returning home. I did not feel jealousy in the
                        sense that a lover would feel it; but there was a pain in my heart, a
                        mingling of grief, anger, and resentment because Dorothy had destroyed not
                        only my faith in her, but, alas! my sweet, newborn faith in womankind.
                        Through her fault I had fallen again to my old, black belief that virtue was
                        only another name for the lack of opportunity. It is easy for a man  who has never known virtue in woman to bear
                        and forbear the lack of it; but when once he has known the priceless
                        treasure, doubt becomes excruciating pain.
                    After an hour or two Dorothy and her servant appeared at the ford and took
                        the path up the Wye toward Haddon. Thomas was riding a short distance behind
                        his accommodating mistress, and as they approached the Hall, I recognized
                        something familiar in his figure. At first, the feeling of recognition was
                        indistinct, but when the riders drew near, something about the
                        man—his poise on the horse, a trick with the rein or a turn with
                        his stirrup, I could not tell what it was—startled me like a flash
                        in the dark, and the word "John!" sprang to my lips. The
                        wonder of the thing drove out of my mind all power to think. I could only
                        feel happy, so I lay down upon my bed and soon dropped off to sleep.
                    When I awakened I was rapt in peace, for I had again found my treasured faith
                        in womankind. I had hardly dared include Madge in my backsliding, but I had
                        come perilously near doing it, and the thought of my narrow escape from such
                        perfidy frightened me. I have never taken the risk since that day. I would
                        not believe the testimony of my own eyes against the evidence of my faith in
                        Madge.
                    I knew that Thomas was Sir John Manners, and yet I did not know it certainly.
                        I determined, if possible, to remain in partial ignorance, hoping that I
                        might with some small show of truth be able to plead ignorance should Sir
                        George accuse me of bad faith in having failed to tell him of
                        John's presence in Haddon Hall. That Sir George would sooner or
                        later discover Thomas's identity I had little doubt. That he would
                        kill him should he once have him in his power, I had no doubt at all. Hence,
                        although I had awakened in peace concerning Dorothy, you may understand that
                        I awakened to trouble concerning John.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI
                    THE COST MARK OF JOY
                    
                    PEACE had been restored between Dorothy and her father. At least an armistice
                        had been tacitly declared. But, owing to Dorothy's knowledge of her
                        father's intention that she should marry Lord Stanley, and because
                        of Sir George's feeling that Dorothy had determined to do nothing
                        of the sort, the belligerent powers maintained a defensive attitude which
                        rendered an absolute reconciliation impossible. They were ready for war at a
                        moment's notice.
                    The strangest part of their relation was the failure of each to comprehend
                        and fully to realize the full strength of the other's purpose.
                        Dorothy could not bring herself to believe that her father, who had until
                        within the last few weeks, been kind and indulgent to her, seriously
                        intended to force her into marriage with a creature so despicable as
                        Stanley. In fact, she did not believe that her father could offer lasting
                        resistance to her ardent desire in any matter. Such an untoward happening
                        had never befallen her. Dorothy had learned to believe from agreeable
                        experience that it was a crime in any one, bordering on treason, to thwart
                        her ardent desires. It is true she had in certain events, been compelled to
                        coax and even to weep gently. On a few extreme occasions she had been forced
                        to do a little storming in order to have her own way; but that any
                        presumptuous individuals should resist her will after the storming had  been resorted to was an event of such recent
                        happening in her life that she had not grown familiar with the thought of
                        it. Therefore, while she felt that her father might seriously annoy her with
                        the Stanley project, and while she realized that she might be compelled to
                        resort to the storming process in a degree thitherto uncalled for, she
                        believed that the storm she would raise would blow her father entirely out
                        of his absurd and utterly untenable position. On the other hand, while Sir
                        George anticipated trouble with Dorothy, he had never been able to believe
                        that she would absolutely refuse to obey him. In those olden
                        times—now nearly half a century past—filial disobedience
                        was rare. The refusal of a child to obey a parent, and especially the
                        refusal of a daughter to obey her father in the matter of marriage, was then
                        looked upon as a crime and was frequently punished in a way which amounted
                        to barbarous ferocity. Sons, being of the privileged side of humanity, might
                        occasionally disobey with impunity, but woe to the poor girl who dared set
                        up a will of her own. A man who could not compel obedience from his daughter
                        was looked upon as a poor weakling, and contempt was his portion in the eyes
                        of his fellow-men—in the eyes of his fellow-brutes, I should like
                        to say.
                    Growing out of such conditions was the firm belief on the part of Sir George
                        that Dorothy would in the end obey him; but if by any hard chance she should
                        be guilty of the high crime of disobedience—Well! Sir George
                        intended to prevent the crime. Perhaps mere stubborness and fear of the
                        contempt in which he would be held by his friends in case he were defeated
                        by his own daughter were no small parts of Sir George's desire to
                        carry through the enterprise in which he had embarked with the Stanleys.
                        Although there was no doubt in Sir George's mind that he would
                        eventually conquer in the conflict with Dorothy, he had a profound respect
                        for the power of his antagonist  to do
                        temporary battle, and he did not care to enter into actual hostilities until
                        hostilities should become actually necessary.
                    Therefore, upon the second day after I had read the beribboned, besealed
                        contract to Sir George, he sent an advance guard toward the enemy's
                        line. He placed the ornamental piece of parchment in Lady
                        Crawford's hands and directed her to give it to Dorothy.
                    But before I tell you of the parchment I must relate a scene that occurred in
                        Aunt Dorothy's room a few hours after I recognized John as he rode
                        up the Wye with Dorothy. It was late in the afternoon of the day after I
                        read the contract to Sir George and saw the horrid vision on Bowling
                        Green.
                    I was sitting with Madge at the west window of Dorothy's parlor. We
                        were watching the sun as it sank in splendor beneath Overhaddon Hill.
                    I should like first to tell you a few words—only a few, I pray
                        you—concerning Madge and myself. I will.
                    I have just said that Madge and I were watching the sun at the west window,
                        and I told you but the truth, for Madge had learned to see with my eyes.
                        Gladly would I have given them to her outright, and willingly would I have
                        lived in darkness could I have given light to her. She gave light to
                        me—the light of truth, of purity, and of exalted motive. There had
                        been no words spoken by Madge nor me to any one concerning the strange and
                        holy chain that was welding itself about us, save the partial confession
                        which she had whispered to Dorothy. But notwithstanding our silence, our
                        friends in the Hall understood that Madge and I were very dear to each
                        other. I, of course, saw a great deal of her; but it was the evening hour at
                        the west window to which I longingly looked forward all the day. I am no
                        poet, nor do my words and thoughts come with the rhythmic flow and eloquent
                             imagery of one to whom the talent of
                        poesy is given. But during those evening hours it seemed that with the soft
                        touch of Madge's hand there ran through me a current of infectious
                        dreaming which kindled my soul till thoughts of beauty came to my mind and
                        words of music sprang to my lips such as I had always considered not to be
                        in me. It was not I who spoke; it was Madge who saw with my eyes and spoke
                        with my voice. To my vision, swayed by Madge's subtle influence,
                        the landscape became a thing of moving beauty and of life, and the floating
                        clouds became a panorama of ever shifting pictures. I, inspired by her,
                        described so eloquently the wonders I saw that she, too, could see them. Now
                        a flock of white-winged angels rested on the low-hung azure of the sky,
                        watching the glory of Phœbus as he drove his fiery steeds over the
                        western edge of the world. Again, Mount Olympus would grow before my eyes,
                        and I would plainly see Jove sitting upon his burnished throne, while gods
                        and goddesses floated at his feet and revelled on the fleecy mountain sides.
                        Then would mountain, gods, and goddesses dissolve,—as in fact they
                        did dissolve ages ago before the eyes of millions who had thought them
                        real,—and in their places perhaps would come a procession of
                        golden-maned lions, at the description of which would Madge take pretended
                        fright. Again, would I see Madge herself in flowing white robes made of the
                        stuff from which fleecy clouds are wrought. All these wonders would I
                        describe, and when I would come to tell her of the fair cloud image of
                        herself I would seize the joyous chance to make her understand in some faint
                        degree how altogether lovely in my eyes the vision was. Then would she smile
                        and softly press my hand and say:—
                    "Malcolm, it must be some one else you see in the clouds,"
                        though she was pleased.
                    But when the hour was done then came the crowing  moment of the day, for as I would rise to take my leave, if perchance we
                        were alone, she would give herself to my arms for one fleeting instant and
                        willingly would her lips await—but there are moments too sacred for
                        aught save holy thought. The theme is sweet to me, but I must go back to
                        Dorothy and tell you of the scene I have promised you.
                    As I have already said, it was the evening following that upon which I had
                        read the marriage contract to Sir George, and had seen the vision on the
                        hillside. Madge and I were sitting at the west window. Dorothy, in kindness
                        to us, was sitting alone by the fireside in Lady Crawford's
                        chamber. Thomas entered the room with an armful of fagots, which he
                        deposited in the fagot-holder. He was about to replenish the fire, but
                        Dorothy thrust him aside, and said:—
                    "You shall kindle no more fires for me. At least you shall not do so
                        when no one else is by. It pains me that you, at whose feet I am unworthy to
                        kneel, should be my servant."
                    Thereupon she took in her hands the fagot John had been holding. He offered
                        to prevent her, but she said:—
                    "Please, John, let me do this."
                    The doors were open, and we heard all that was said by Dorothy and Tom. Madge
                        grasped my hand in surprise and fear.
                    "Please, John," said Dorothy, "if it gives me
                        pleasure to be your servant, you should not wish to deny me. There lives but
                        one person whom I would serve. There, John, I will give you another, and you
                        shall let me do as I will."
                    Dorothy, still holding the fagot in her hands, pressed it against
                        John's breast and gently pushed him backward toward a large
                        armchair, in which she had been sitting by the west side of the
                        fireplace.
                    "You sit there, John, and we will make believe that this is our
                        house, and that you have just come in very cold from  a ride, and that I am making a fine fire to warm you.
                        Isn't it pleasant, John? There, you sit and warm
                        yourself—my—my—husband," she said
                        laughingly. "It is fine sport even to play at. There is one fagot
                        on the fire," she said, as she threw the wood upon the embers,
                        causing them to fly in all directions. John started up to brush the
                        scattered embers back into the fireplace, but Dorothy stopped him.
                    "I will put them all back," she said. "You know
                        you are cold and very tired. You have been overseeing the tenantry and have
                        been hunting. Will you have a bowl of punch, my—my
                        husband?" and she laughed again and kissed him as she passed to the
                        holder for another fagot.
                    "I much prefer that to punch," said John, laughing softly.
                        "Have you more?"
                    "Thousands of them, John, thousands of them." She rippled
                        forth a little laugh and continued: "I occupy my time nowadays in
                        making them that I may always have a great supply when we are—that
                        is, you know, when you—when the time comes that you may require a
                        great many to keep you in good humor." Again came the laugh, merry
                        and clear as the tinkle of sterling silver.
                    She laughed again within a minute or two; but when the second laugh came, it
                        sounded like a knell.
                    Dorothy delighted to be dressed in the latest fashion. Upon this occasion she
                        wore a skirt vast in width, of a pattern then much in vogue. The sleeves
                        also were preposterously large, in accordance with the custom of the times.
                        About her neck a beautiful white linen ruff stood out at least the eighth
                        part of an ell. The day had been damp and cold, and the room in which she
                        had been sitting was chilly. For that reason, most fortunately, she had
                        thrown over her shoulders a wide sable cloak broad enough to enfold her many
                        times and long enough to reach nearly to her knees: Dorothy thus arrayed was
                             standing in front of John's
                        chair. She had just spoken the words "good humor," when
                        the door leading to her father's room opened and in walked Sir
                        George. She and her ample skirts and broad sleeves were between John and the
                        door. Not one brief instant did Dorothy waste in thought. Had she paused to
                        put in motion the machinery of reason, John would have been lost. Thomas
                        sitting in Lady Crawford's chair and Dorothy standing beside him
                        would have told Sir George all he needed to know. He might not have
                        discovered John's identity, but a rope and a tree in Bowling Green
                        would quickly have closed the chapter of Dorothy's mysterious love
                        affair. Dorothy, however, did not stop to reason nor to think. She simply
                        acted without preliminary thought, as the rose unfolds or as the lightning
                        strikes. She quietly sat down upon John's knees, leaned closely
                        back against him, spread out the ample folds of her skirt, threw the lower
                        parts of her broad cape over her shoulders and across the back of the chair,
                        and Sir John Manners was invisible to mortal eyes.
                    "Come in, father," said Dorothy, in dulcet tones that
                        should have betrayed her.
                    "I heard you laughing and talking," said Sir George,
                        "and I wondered who was with you."
                    "I was talking to Madge and Malcolm who are in the other
                        room," replied Dorothy.
                    "Did not Thomas come in with fagots?" asked Sir George.
                    "I think he is replenishing the fire in the parlor, father, or he
                        may have gone out. I did not notice. Do you want him?"
                    "I do not especially want him," Sir George answered.
                    "When he finishes in the parlor I will tell him that you want
                        him," said Dorothy.
                    "Very well," replied Sir George.
                    
                    He returned to his room, but he did not close the door.
                    The moment her father's back was turned Dorothy
                        called:—
                    "Tom-Tom, father wants you," and instantly Thomas was
                        standing deferentially by her side, and she was seated in the great chair.
                        It was a rapid change, I assure you. But a man's life and his
                        fortune for good or ill often hang upon a tiny peg—a second of time
                        protruding from the wall of eternity. It serves him briefly; but if he be
                        ready for the vital instant, it may serve him well.
                    "Yes, mistress," said Thomas, "I go to him at
                        once."
                    John left the room and closed the door as he passed out. Then it was that
                        Dorothy's laugh sounded like the chilling tones of a knell. It was
                        the laugh of one almost distraught. She came to Madge and me laughing, but
                        the laugh quickly changed to convulsive sobs. The strain of the brief moment
                        during which her father had been in Lady Crawford's room had been
                        too great for even her strong nerves to bear. She tottered and would have
                        fallen had I not caught her. I carried her to the bed, and Madge called Lady
                        Crawford. Dorothy had swooned.
                    When she wakened she said dreamily:—
                    "I shall always keep this cloak and gown."
                    Aunt Dorothy thought the words were but the incoherent utterances of a dimly
                        conscious mind, but I knew they were the deliberate expression of a justly
                        grateful heart.
                    The following evening trouble came about over the matter of the marriage
                        contract.
                    You remember I told you that Sir George had sent Lady Crawford as an advance
                        guard to place the parchment in the enemy's hands. But the advance
                        guard feared the enemy and therefore did not deliver the contract directly
                        to Dorothy. She placed it conspicuously upon the table, knowing well that
                        her niece's curiosity would soon prompt an examination.
                    
                    I was sitting before the fire in Aunt Dorothy's room, talking to
                        Madge when Lady Crawford entered, placed the parchment on the table, and
                        took a chair by my side. Soon Dorothy entered the room. The roll of
                        parchment, brave with ribbons, was lying on the table. It attracted her
                        attention at once, and she took it in her hands.
                    "What is this?" she asked carelessly. Her action was
                        prompted entirely by idle curiosity. That, by the way, was no small motive
                        with Dorothy. She had the curiosity of a young doe. Receiving no answer, she
                        untied the ribbons and unrolled the parchment to investigate its contents
                        for herself. When the parchment was unrolled, she began to
                        read:—
                    "In the name of God, amen. This indenture of agreement, looking to
                        union in the holy bonds of marriage between the Right Honorable Lord James
                        Stanley of the first part, and Mistress Dorothy Vernon of Haddon of the
                        second part—"
                    She read no farther. She crumpled the beautiful parchment in her hands,
                        walked over to the fire, and quietly placed the sacred instrument in the
                        midst of the flames. Then she turned away with a sneer of contempt upon her
                        face and—again I grieve to tell you
                        this—said:—
                    "In the name of God, amen. May this indenture be
                        damned."
                    "Dorothy!" exclaimed Lady Crawford, horrified at her
                        niece's profanity. "I feel shame for your impious
                        words."
                    "I don't care what you feel, aunt," retorted
                        Dorothy, with a dangerous glint in her eyes. "Feel as you wish, I
                        meant what I said, and I will say it again if you would like to hear it. I
                        will say it to father when I see him. Now, Aunt Dorothy, I love you and I
                        love my father, but I give you fair warning there is trouble ahead for any
                        one who crosses me in this matter."
                    She certainly looked as if she spoke the truth. Then  she hummed a tune under her breath—a dangerous signal
                        in Dorothy at certain times. Soon the humming turned to whistling. Whistling
                        in those olden days was looked upon as a species of crime in a girl.
                    Dorothy stood by the window for a short time and then taking up an embroidery
                        frame, drew a chair nearer to the light and began to work at her embroidery.
                        In a moment or two she stopped whistling, and we could almost feel the
                        silence in the room. Madge, of course, only partly knew what had happened,
                        and her face wore an expression of expectant, anxious inquiry. Aunt Dorothy
                        looked at me, and I looked at the fire. The parchment burned slowly. Lady
                        Crawford, from a sense of duty to Sir George and perhaps from politic
                        reasons, made two or three attempts to speak, and after five minutes of
                        painful silence she brought herself to say:—
                    "Dorothy, your father left the contract here for you to read. He
                        will be angry when he learns what you have done. Such disobedience is sure
                        to—"
                    "Not another word form you," screamed Dorothy, springing
                        like a tigress from her chair. "Not another word from you or I
                        will—I will scratch you. I will kill some one. Don't speak
                        to me. Can't you see that I am trying to calm myself for an
                        interview with father? An angry brain is full of blunders. I want to make
                        none. I will settle this affair with father. No one else, not even you, Aunt
                        Dorothy, shall interfere." The girl turned to the window, stood
                        beating a tattoo upon the glass for a moment or two, then went over to Lady
                        Crawford and knelt by her side. She put her arms about Aunt
                        Dorothy's neck, softly kissed her, and said:—
                    "Forgive me, dear aunt; forgive me. I am almost crazed with my
                        troubles. I love you dearly indeed, indeed I do."
                    Madge gropingly went to Dorothy's side and took her hand. Dorothy
                        kissed Madge's hand and rose to her feet.
                    
                    "Where is my father?" asked Dorothy, to whom a repentant
                        feeling toward Lady Crawford had brought partial calmness. "I will
                        go to him immediately and will have this matter over. We might as well
                        understand each other at once. Father seems very dull at understanding me.
                        But he shall know me better before long."
                    Sir George may have respected the strength of his adversary, but Dorothy had
                        no respect for the strength of her foe. She was eager for the fray. When she
                        had a disagreeable thing to do, she always wanted to do it quickly.
                    Dorothy was saved the trouble of seeking her father, for at that moment he
                        entered the room.
                    "You are welcome, father," said Dorothy in cold, defiant
                        toes. "You have come just in time to see the last flickering flame
                        of your fine marriage contract." She led him to the fireplace.
                        "Does it not make a beautiful smoke and blaze?"
                    "Did you dare—"
                    "Ay, that I did," replied Dorothy.
                    "You dared?" again asked her father, unable to believe the
                        evidence of his eyes.
                    "Ay, so I said; that I did," again said Dorothy.
                    "By the death of Christ—" began Sir George.
                    "Now be careful, father, about your oaths," the girl
                        interrupted. "You must not forget the last batch you made and
                        broke."
                    Dorothy's words and manner maddened Sir George. The expression of
                        her whole person, from her feet to her hair, breathed defiance. The poise of
                        her body and of her limbs, the wild glint in her eyes, and the turn of her
                        head, all told eloquently that Sir George had no chance to win and that
                        Dorothy was an unconquerable foe. It is a wonder he did not learn in that
                        one moment that he could never bring his daughter to marry Lord Stanley.
                    "I will imprison you," cried Sir George, gasping with
                        rage.
                    
                    "Very well," responded Dorothy, smilingly. "You
                        kept me prisoner for a fortnight. I did not ask you to liberate me. I am
                        ready to go back to my apartments."
                    "But now you shall go to the dungeon," her father said.
                    "Ah, the dungeon!" cried the girl, as if she were delighted
                        at the thought. "The dungeon! Very well, again. I am ready to go to
                        the dungeon. You may keep me there the remainder of my natural life. I
                        cannot prevent you from doing that, but you cannot force me to marry Lord
                        Stanley."
                    "I will starve you until you obey me!" retorted her father.
                        "I will starve you!"
                    "That, again, you may easily do, my dear father; but again I tell
                        you I will never marry Stanley. If you think I fear to die, try to kill me.
                        I do not fear death. You have it not in your power to make me fear you or
                        anything you can do. You may kill me, but I thank God it requires my consent
                        for my marriage to Stanley, and I swear before God that never shall be
                        given."
                    The girl's terrible will and calm determination staggered Sir
                        George, and by its force beat down even his strong will. The infuriated old
                        man wavered a moment and said:—
                    "Fool, I seek only your happiness in this marriage. Only your
                        happiness. Why will you not consent to it?"
                    I thought the battle was over, and that Dorothy was the victor. She thought
                        so, too, but was not great enough to bear her triumph silently. She kept on
                        talking and carried her attack too far.
                    "And I refuse to obey because of my happiness. I refuse because I
                        hate Lord Stanley, and because, as you already know, I love another
                        man."
                    When she spoke the words "because I love another man," the
                        cold, defiant expression of her face changed to one of ecstasy.
                    
                    "I will have you to the dungeon this very hour, you brazen
                        huzzy," cried Sir George,
                    "How often, father, shall I repeat that I am ready to go to the
                        dungeon? I am eager to obey you in all things save one."
                    "You shall have your wish," returned Sir George.
                        "Would that you had died ere you had disgraced your house with a
                        low-bred dog whose name you are ashamed t-
                        utter."
                    "Father, there has been no disgrace,"Dorothy answered, and
                        her words bore the ring of truth.
                    "You have been meeting the fellow at secluded spots in the
                        forest—how frequently you have met him God only kows—and
                        you lied to me when you were discovered at Bowling Green Gate."
                    "I would do it again gladly if I but had the chance,"
                        answered the girl, who by that time was reckless of consequences.
                    "But the chance you shall not have," retorted Sir
                        George.
                    "Do not be too sure, father," replied Dorothy. She as
                        unable to resist the temptation to mystify him. "I may see him
                        before another hour. I will lay you this wager, father, if I do not within
                        one hour see the man—the man whom I love—I will marry Lord
                        Stanley. If I see him within that time you shall permit me to marry him. I
                        have seen him two score times since the day you surprised me at the
                        gate."
                    That was a dangerous admission for the girl to make, and she soon regretted
                        it with all her heart. Truly she was right. An angry brain is full of
                        blunders.
                    Of course Dorothy's words, which were so full of meaning to Madge
                        and me, meant little to Sir George. He looked upon them only as irritating
                        insolence on her part A few minutes later, however, they became full of
                        significance.
                    
                    Sir George seemed to have forgotten the Stanley marriage and the burning of
                        the contract in his quarrel with Dorothy over her unknow lover.
                    Conceive, if you can, the situation in Haddon Hall at that time. There was
                        love-drunk Dorothy, proud of the skill which had enabled her to outwit her
                        wrathful father. There was Sir George, whose mental condition, inflamed by
                        constant drinking, bordered on frenzy because he felt that his child, whom
                        he had so tenderly loved from the day of her birth, had disgraced herself
                        with a low-born wretch whom she refused to name. And there, under the same
                        roof, lived the man who was the root and source of all the trouble. A pretty
                        kettle of fish!
                    "The wager, father, will you take it?" eagerly asked
                        Dorothy.
                    Sir George, who thought that her words were spoken only to anger him, waved
                        her off with his hands and said:—
                    "I have reason to believe that I know the wretch for whose sake you
                        have disgraced yourself. You may by sure that I shall soon know him with
                        certainty. When I do, I will quickly have him in my power. Then I will hang
                        him to a tree on Bowling Green, and you shall see the low-born dog
                        die."
                    "He is better born than any of our house," retorted
                        Dorothy, who had lost all sense of caution. "Ay, he is better born
                        than any with whom we claim kin."
                    Sir George stood in open-eyed wonder, and Dorothy continued: "You
                        cannot keep him from me. I shall see him, and I will have him despite you. I
                        tell you again, I have seen him two score times since you tried to spy upon
                        us at Bowling Green Gate, and I will see him whenever I choose, and I will
                        wed him when I am ready to do so. You cannot prevent it. You can only be
                        forsworn, oath upon oath; and if I were you, I would stop
                        swearing."
                    
                    Sir George, as was usual with him in those sad times, was inflamed with
                        drink, and Dorothy's conduct, I must admit, was maddening. In the
                        midst of her taunting Thomas stepped into the room bearing an armful of
                        fagots.
                    Sir George turned to him and said:—
                    "Go and tell Welch to bring a set of manacles.
                    "For Mistress Dorothy?" Thomas asked, surprised into the
                        exclamation.
                    "Curse you, do you mean to bandy words with me, you scum?"
                        cried Sir George.
                    He snatched a fagot from John and drew back his arm to strike him. John took
                        one step back from Sir George and one step nearer to Dorothy.
                    "Yes, Thomas," said Dorothy, sneeringly, "bring
                        Welch with the manacles for me. My dear father would put me in the dungeon
                        out of the reach of other men, so that he may keep me safely for my unknown
                        lover. Go, Thomas. Go, else father will again be forsworn before Christ and
                        upon his knighthood."
                    "This before a servant! I'll gag you, you hellish
                        vixen," cried Sir George. Then I am sure he knew not what he did.
                        "Curse you!" he cried, as he held the fagot upraised and
                        rushed upon Dorothy. John, with his arms fuII of fagots, could not avert the
                        blow which certainly would have killed the girl, but he could take it. He
                        sprang between Dorothy and her father, the fagot fell upon his head, and he
                        sank to the floor. In his fall John's wig dropped off, and when the
                        blood began to flow from the wound Dorothy kneeled beside his prostrate
                        form. She snatched the great bush of false beard from his face and fell to
                        kissing his lips and his hands in a paroxysm of passionate love and grief.
                        Her kisses she knew to be a panacea for all ills John could be heir to, and
                        she thought they would heal even the wound her father had given, and stop
                        the frightful outpouring of John's 
                        life-blood. The poor girl, oblivious of all save her wounded lover, murmured
                        piteously:—
                    "John, John, speak to me; 'tis Dorothy." She
                        placed her lips near his ear and whispered: "'Tis Dorothy,
                        John. Speak to her." But she received no response. Then came a wild
                        light to her eyes and she cried aloud: "John, 'tis
                        Dorothy. Open your eyes. Speak to me, John! oh, for live," but John
                        was silent. "My God, my God! Help, help! Will no one help me save
                        this man? See you not that his life is flowing away? This agony will kill
                        me. John, my lover, my lord, speak to me. Ah, his heart, his heart! I will
                        know." She tore from his breast the leathern doublet and placed her
                        ear over his heart.
                    "Thank God, it beats!" she cried in a frenzied whisper, as
                        she kissed his breast and turned her ear again to hear his heart's
                        welcome throbbing. Then she tried to lift him in her arms and succeeded in
                        placing his head in her lap. It was a piteous scene. God save me from
                        witnessing another like it.
                    After Dorothy lifted John's head to her lap he began to breathe
                        perceptibly, and the girl's agitation passed away as she gently
                        stroked his hair and kissed him over and over again, softly whispering her
                        love to his unresponsive ear in a gentle frenzy of ineffable tenderness such
                        as was never before seen in this world, I do believe. I wish with all my
                        heart that I were a maker of pictures so that I might draw for you the scene
                        which is as clear and vivid in every detail to my eyes now as it was upon
                        that awful day in Haddon Hall. There lay John upon the floor and by his side
                        knelt Dorothy. His head was resting in her lap. Over them stood Sir George
                        with the murderous fagot raised, as if he intended again to strike. I had
                        sprung to his side and was standing by him, intending to fell him to the
                        floor should he attempt to repeat the blow 
                        upon either Dorothy or John. Across from Sir George and me, that is, upon
                        the opposite side of Dorothy and John, stood Lady Crawford and Madge, who
                        clung to each other in terror. The silence was heavy, save when broken by
                        Dorothy's sobs and whispered ejaculations to John. Sir
                        George's terrible deed had deprived all of us, including himself,
                        of the power to speak. I feared to move from his side lest he should strike
                        again. After a long agony of silence he angrily threw the fagot away from
                        him and asked:—
                    "Who is this fellow? Can any one tell me?"
                    Only Madge, Dorothy, and I could have given him true answer. By some strange
                        power of divination Madge had learned all that had happened, and she knew as
                        well as I the name of the man who lay upon the floor battling with death.
                        Neither Madge nor I answered.
                    "Who is this fellow?" again demanded Sir George. Dorothy
                        lifted her face toward her father.
                    "He is the man whom you seek, father," she answered, in a
                        low, tearful voice. "He is my lover; he is my life; he is my soul,
                        and if you have murdered him in your attempt to kill your own child, all
                        England shall hear of it and you shall hang. He is worth more in the eyes of
                        the queen than we and all our kindred. You know not whom you have
                        killed."
                    Sir George's act had sobered him.
                    "I did not intend to kill him—in that manner,"
                        said Sir George, dropping his words absent-mindedly. "I hoped to
                        hang him. Where is Dawson? Some one fetch Dawson."
                    Several of the servants had gathered about the open door in the next room,
                        and in obedience to Sir George's command one of them went to seek
                        the forester. I feared that John would die from the effects of the blow; but
                        I also knew from experience that a man's head may receive very hard
                        knocks and life still remain. Should John recover  and should Sir George learn his name, I was sure that my
                        violent cousin would again attempt the personal administration of justice
                        and would hang him, under the old Saxon law. In that event Parliament would
                        not be so easily pacified as upon the occasion of the former hanging at
                        Haddon; and I knew that if John should die by my cousin's hand, Sir
                        George would pay for the act with his life and his estates. Fearing that Sir
                        George might learn through Dawson of John's identity, I started out
                        in search of Will to have a word with him before he could see his master. I
                        felt sure that for many reasons Will would be inclined to save John; but to
                        what extent his fidelity to the cause of his master might counteract his
                        resentment of Sir George's act, I did not know. I suspected that
                        Dawson was privy to John's presence in Haddon Hall, but I was not
                        sure of it, so I wished to prepare the forester for his interview with Sir
                        George and to give him a hint of my plans for securing John's
                        safety, in the event he should not die in Aunt Dorothy's room.
                    When I opened the door in the Northwest Tower I saw Dawson coming toward the
                        Hall from the dove-cote, and I hastened forward to meet him. It was pitiful
                        that so good a man as Sir George Vernon was, should have been surrounded in
                        his own house by real friends who were also traitors. That was the condition
                        of affairs in Haddon Hall, and I felt that I was the chief offender. The
                        evil, however, was all of Sir George's making. Tyranny is the
                        father of treason.
                    When I met Dawson I said: "Will, do you know who Tom-Tom
                        is?"
                    The forester hesitated for a moment, and said, "Well, Sir Malcolm, I
                        suppose he is Thomas—"
                    "No, no, Will, tell me the truth. Do you know that he is—or
                        perhaps by this time I should say he was—Sir John
                        Manners?"
                    
                    "Was?" cried Will. "Great God! Has Sir George
                        discovered—is he dead? If he is dead, it will be a sad day for Sir
                        George and for Haddon Hall. Tell me quickly."
                    I at once knew Will Dawson was in the secret. I answered:—
                    "I hope he is not dead. Sir George attempted to strike Dorothy with
                        a fagot, but Thomas stepped in front of her and received the blow. He is
                        lying almost, if not quite, dead in Lady Crawford's room. Sir
                        George knows nothing about him, save that he is Dorothy's lover.
                        But should Thomas revive I feel sure my cousin will hang him in the morning
                        unless steps are taken to prevent the deed."
                    "Sir Malcolm, if you will stand by me," said Dawson,
                        "Sir George will not hang him."
                    "I certainly will stand by you, Dawson. Have no doubt on that score.
                        Sir George intends to cast John into the dungeon, and should he do so I want
                        you to send Jennie Faxton to Rutland and have her tell the Rutlanders to
                        rescue John to-night. To-morrow morning I fear will be too late. Be on your
                        guard, Will. Do not allow Sir George to discover that you have any feeling
                        in this matter. Above all, lead him from the possibility of learning that
                        Thomas is Sir John Manners. I will contrive to admit the Rutland men at
                        midnight."
                    I hastened with Dawson back to the Hall, where we found the situation as I
                        had left it. John's head was lying on Dorothy's lap, and
                        she was trying to dress his wound with pieces of linen torn from her
                        clothing. Sir George was pacing to and fro across the room, breaking forth
                        at times in curses against Dorothy because of her relations with a
                        servant.
                    When Dawson and I entered the room, Sir George spoke angrily to
                        Will:—
                    "Who is this fellow? You employed him. Who is he?"
                    
                    "He gave me his name as Thomas Thompson," returned Will,
                        "and he brought me a favorable letter of recommendation from
                        Danford."
                    Danford was forester to the Duke of Devonshire, and lived at Chatsworth.
                    "There was naught in the letter save that he was a good servant and
                        and honest man. That is all we can ask of any man."
                    "But who is he?" again demanded Sir George.
                    "Your worship may perhaps learn from Danford more than I can tell
                        you," replied the forester, adroitly avoiding a lie.
                    "Think of it, Malcolm," said Sir George, speaking to me.
                        "Think of it. My daughter, my only child, seeks for her husband
                        this low-born serving man. I have always been sure that the fellow would
                        prove to be such." Then he turned to Dawson: "Throw the
                        fellow into the dungeon. If he lives till morning, I will have him hanged.
                        To the dungeon with him."
                    Sir George waved his hand toward Dawson and Tom Welch, and then stepped
                        aside. Will made an effort to hide his feelings, and without a word or
                        gesture that could betray him, he and Welch lifted John to carry him away.
                        Then it was piteous to see Dorothy. She clung to John and begged that he
                        might be left with her. Sir George violently thrust her away from
                        John's side, but she, still upon her knees, grasped her
                        father's hand and cried out in agony:—
                    "Father, let me remain with him. If you have ever felt love for me,
                        and if my love for you has ever touched one tender spot in your heart, pity
                        me now and leave this man with me, or let me go with him. I beg you, father;
                        I plead; I implore. He may be dying. We know not. In this hour of my agony
                        be merciful to me."
                    But Sir George rudely repulsed her and left the room,  following Welch and Dawson, who bore John's
                        unconscious form between them. Dorothy rose to her feet screaming and tried
                        to follow John. I, fearing that in her frenzy of grief she might divulge
                        John's name, caught her in my arms and detained her by force. She
                        turned upon me savagely and struck me in her effort to escape. She called me
                        traitor, villain, dog, but I lifted her in my arms and carried her
                        struggling to her bedroom. I wanted to tell her of the plans which Dawson
                        and I had made, but I feared to do so, lest she might in some way betray
                        them, so I left her in the room with Lady Crawford and Madge. I told Lady
                        Crawford to detain Dorothy at all hazards, and I whispered to Madge asking
                        her to tell Dorothy that I would look to John's comfort and safety.
                        I then hastily followed Sir George, Dawson, and Welch, and in a few moments
                        I saw them leave John, bleeding and senseless, upon the dungeon floor. When
                        Sir George's back was turned, Dawson by my orders brought the
                        surgeon from the stable where he had been working with the horses. The
                        surgeon bound up the wound in John's head and told me, to my great
                        joy, that it was not fatal. Then he administered a reviving potion and soon
                        consciousness returned. I whispered to John that Dawson and I would not
                        forsake him, and, fearing discovery by Sir George, hurriedly left the
                        dungeon.
                    I believe there is a certain amount of grief and sorrow which comes with
                        every great joy to give it a cost mark whereby we may always know its value.
                        The love between Dorothy and John indeed was marked in plain figures of high
                        denominations.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII
                    THE LEICESTER POSSIBILITY
                    
                    ON leaving the dungeon I sought Madge, and after I had whispered a word to
                        her from my heart I asked her to tell Dorothy the encouraging words of the
                        surgeon, and also to tell her that she should not be angry with me until she
                        was sure she had good cause. I dared not send a more explicit message, and I
                        dared not go to Dorothy, for Sir George was in a suspicious mood and I
                        feared ruin not only for myself but for John, should my violent cousin
                        suspect me of sympathy with his daughter and her lover.
                    I also sought Aunt Dorothy and whispered a word to her of which you shall
                        hear more presently.
                    "Ah, I cannot do it," cried the trembling old lady in
                        response to my whispered request. "I cannot do it."
                    "But you must, Aunt Dorothy," I responded. "Upon
                        it depend three lives: Sir George's, Dorothy's, and her
                        lover's. You must do it."
                    "I will try," she replied.
                    "That assurance will not suit me," I responded.
                        "You must promise upon your salvation that you will not fail
                        me."
                    "I promise upon my salvation," replied Aunt Dorothy.
                    That evening of course we did not see the ladies at supper. Sir George and I
                        ate in silence until my cousin became talkative from drink. Then he spoke
                        bitterly of Dorothy's conduct, and bore with emphasis upon the fact
                             that the lover to whom Dorothy had
                        stooped was a lowborn serving man.
                    "But Dorothy declares he is noble," I responded.
                    "She has lied to me so often that I do not believe a word she
                        says," returned Sir George.
                    He swore oath upon oath that the wretch should hang in the morning, and for
                        the purpose of carrying into effect his intention he called in Joe the
                        butcher and told him to make all things ready for the execution.
                    I did not attempt to thwart his purpose by word or gesture, knowing it would
                        be useless, but hoped that John would be out of his reach long ere the cock
                        would crow his first greeting to the morrow's sun.
                    After Sir George had drunk far into the night the servants helped him to bed,
                        and he carried with him the key to the dungeon together with the keys to all
                        the outer doors and gates of Haddon Hall, as was his custom. The keys were
                        in a bunch, held together by an iron ring, and Sir George always kept them
                        under his pillow at night.
                    I sought my bed in Eagle Tower and lay down in my clothes to rest and wait.
                        The window of my room was open.
                    Within an hour after midnight I heard the hooting of an owl. The doleful
                        sound came up to me from the direction of the stone footbridge at the
                        southwest corner of the Hall below the chapel. I went to my window and
                        looked out over the courts and terrace. Haddon Hall and all things in and
                        about it were wrappeed in slumbrous silence. I waited, and again I heard the
                        hooting of the owl. Noiselessly leaving my room I descended the stone steps
                        to an unused apartment in the tower from which a window opened upon the roof
                        of the north wing of the Hall. Along that roof I crept with bared feet, till
                        I reached another roof, the battlements of which at the lowest point were
                        not more than twenty feet from the ground. Thence I clambered down to a
                        window cornice five or six feet  lower, and
                        jumped, at the risk of my limbs, the remaining distance of fifteen or
                        sixteen feet to the soft sod beneath. I ran with all haste, took my stand
                        under Aunt Dorothy's window, and whistled softly. The window casing
                        opened and I heard the great bunch of keys jingling and clinking against the
                        stone wall as Aunt Dorothy paid them out to me by means of a cord. After I
                        had secured the keys I called in a whisper to Lady Crawford and directed her
                        to leave the cord hanging from the window. I also told her to remain in
                        readiness to draw up the keys when they should have served their purpose.
                        Then I took them and ran to the stone footbridge where I found four Rut land
                        men who had come in response to the message Dawson had sent by Jennie
                        Faxton. Two of the men went with me, and we entered the lower garden by the
                        southwest postern. Thence we crept noiselessly to the terrace and made our
                        entrance into the Hall by "Dorothy's Postern." I
                        had in my life engaged in many questionable and danger ous enterprises, but
                        this was my first attempt at housebreaking. To say that I was nervous would
                        but poorly define the state of my feelings. Since that day I have respected
                        the high calling of burglary and regard with favor the daring knights of the
                        skeleton key. I was frightened. I, who would feel no fear had I to fight a
                        dozen men, trembled with fright during this adventure. The deathlike silence
                        and the darkness in familiar places seemed uncanny to me. The very chairs
                        and tables appeared to be sleeping, and I was fearful lest they should
                        awaken. I cannot describe to you how I was affected. Whether it was fear or
                        awe or a smiting conscience I cannot say, but my teeth chattered as if they
                        were in the mouth of a fool, and my knees quaked as if they supported a
                        coward. Still I knew I was doing my duty, though one's conscience
                        sometimes smites him when his reason tells him he is acting righteously. It
                        is more dangerous  to possess a sensitive
                        conscience which cannot be made to hear reason than to have none at all. But
                        I will make short my account of that night's doings. The two
                        Rutland men and I groped our way to the dungeon and carried forth John, who
                        was weak from loss of blood. I told them to lock the door of the Hall as
                        they passed out and to attach the keys to the cord hanging from Lady
                        Crawford's window. Then I climbed to my room again, feeling in
                        conscience like a criminal because I had done the best act of my life.
                    Early next morning I was awakened by a great noise in the upper court. When I
                        looked out at my window I beheld Sir George. He was half dressed and was
                        angrily questioning the servants and retainers. I knew that he had
                        discovered John's escape, but I did not know all, nor did I know
                        the worst. I dressed and went to the kitchen, where I bathed my hands and
                        face. There I learned that the keys to the hall had been stolen from under
                        Sir George's pillow, and that the prisoner had escaped from the
                        dungeon. Old Bess, the cook, nodded her head wisely and whispered to me the
                        words, "Good for Mistress Doll."
                    Bess's unsought confidence alarmed me. I did not relish the thought
                        that Bess nor any one else should believe me to be in sympathy with Dorothy,
                        and I said:—
                    "If Mistress Vernon had aught to do with last night's
                        affairs, she should be full of shame. I will not believe that she knew of it
                        at all. My opinion is that one of the servants was bribed by some person
                        interested in Tom-Tom's escape."
                    "Believe nothing of the sort," retorted Bess. "It
                        is the mistress and not the servant who stole the keys and liberated
                        Tom-Tom. But the question is, who may Tom-Tom be? and the servants'
                        hall is full of it. We are not uncertain as to the manner of his escape.
                        Some of the servants do say that the Earl of Leicester be now visiting the
                        Duke  of Devonshire; and some also do say that
                        his Lordship be fond of disguises in his gallantry. They do also say that
                        the queen is in love with him, and that he must disguise himself when he
                        woos elsewhere, or she be's famously jealous. It would be a pretty
                        mess the master has brought us all into should Tom-Tom prove to be my lord
                        Earl of Leicester. We'd all hang and to hell."
                    "Bess, that tongue of yours will cost you your head one of these
                        good times," I remarked, while I rubbed my face with the towel.
                    "I would sooner lose my head," restorted Bess,
                        "than have my mouth shut by fear. I know, Sir Malcolm, that
                        I'll not die till my time comes; but please the good God when my
                        time does come I will try to die talking."
                    "That you will," said I.
                    "True word, Sir Malcolm," she answered, and I left her in
                        possession of the field.
                    I went into the courtyard, and when Sir George saw me he said,
                        "Malcolm, come with me to my room; I want a word with
                        you."
                    We went to his room.
                    "I suppose you know of the fellow's escape last
                        night?" he said.
                    "Yes," I replied, "Bess told me about it in the
                        kitchen." It seemed to me that my words said, "I did
                        it."
                    "Not only was the fellow liberated," said my cousin,
                        "but the keys to all the outer gates and doors of the Hall have
                        been stolen and carried away. Can you help me unravel this
                        affair?"
                    "Do you suspect any one of having stolen the keys?" I
                        asked.
                    "I know, of course, that Dorothy did it. Who her accomplices were,
                        if any she had, I do not know. I have catechized the servants, but the
                        question is bottomless to me."
                    
                    "Have you spoken to Dorothy on the subject?" I asked.
                    "No," he replied, "but I have sent word to her by
                        the Faxton girl that I am going to see her at once. Come with
                        me."
                    We went into Lady Crawford's room. She was ill and in bed. I did not
                        wonder that she was ill after the experiences of the previous night. Sir
                        George asked her if she had heard or seen Dorothy pass through her room
                        during the night. She said:—
                    "Dorothy did not pass through this room last night. I did not once
                        close my eyes in sleep, and I should have seen her had she been here at
                        all."
                    Sir George entered Dorothy's bedroom, and Lady Crawford beckoned me
                        to go to her side.
                    "I waited till sunrise," she said, "that I might
                        draw up the keys."
                    "Hush!" said I, "the cord?"
                    "I burned it," she replied.
                    Then I followed Sir George into Dorothy's room. Madge was dressed
                        for the day, and Dorothy, who had been helping her, was making her own
                        toilet. Her hair hung loose and fell like a cataract of sunshine over her
                        bare shoulders. But no words that I can write would give you a conception of
                        her wondrous beauty, and I shall not waste them in the attempt. When we
                        entered the room she was standing at the mirror. She turned, comb in hand,
                        toward Sir George and said:—
                    "I suppose, father, you will accuse me of liberating
                        Thomas."
                    "You must know that I will accuse you," replied Sir
                        George.
                    "Then, father, for once you will accuse me falsely. I am overjoyed
                        that he has escaped, and I certainly should have tried to liberate him had I
                        thought it possible to do so.  But I did not
                        do it, though to tell you the truth I am sorry I did not."
                    "I do not believe you," her father replied.
                    "I knew you would not believe me," answered Dorothy.
                    "Had I liberated him I should probably have lied to you about it;
                        therefore, I wonder not that you should disbelieve me. But I tell you again
                        upon my salvation that I know nothing of the stealing of the keys nor of
                        Tom-Tom's escape. Believe me or not, I shall deny it no
                        more."
                    Madge gropingly went to Sir George's side, and he tenderly put his
                        arms about her, saying:—
                    "I would that you were my daughter." Madge took his hand
                        caressingly.
                    "Uncle, I want to tell you that Dorothy speaks the truth,"
                        she said. "I have been with her every moment since the terrible
                        scene of yesterday evening. Neither Dorothy nor I closed our eyes in sleep
                        all night long. She lay through the dark hours moaning, and I tried to
                        comfort her. Our door was locked, and it was opened only by your messenger
                        who brought the good news of Tom-Tom's escape. I say good news,
                        uncle, because his escape has saved you from the stain of murder. You are
                        too brave a man to do murder, uncle."
                    "How dare you," said Sir George, taking his arm from
                        Madge's waist, "how dare you
                        defend—"
                    "Now, uncle, I beg you pause and take a moment's
                        thought," said Madge, interrupting him. "You have never
                        spoken unkindly to me."
                    "Nor will I, Madge, so long as I live. I know there is not a lie in
                        you, and I am sure you believe to be true all you tell me, but Dorothy has
                        deceived you by some adroit trick."
                    "If she deceived me, she is a witch," retorted Madge,
                        laughing softly.
                    "That I am almost ready to believe is the case," said Sir
                             George. Dorothy, who was combing her hair
                        at the mirror, laughed softly and said:—
                    "My broomstick is under the bed, father."
                    Sir George went into Lady Crawford's room and shut the door, leaving
                        me with the girls.
                    When her father had left, Dorothy turned upon me with fire in her
                        eyes:—
                    "Malcolm Vernon, if you ever lay hands upon me again as you did last
                        night, I will—I will scratch you. You pretended to be his friend
                        and mine, but for a cowardly fear of my father you came between us and you
                        carried me to this room by force. Then you locked the door
                        and—and"—
                    "Did not Madge give you my message?" I asked, interrupting
                        her.
                    "Yes, but did you not force me away from him when, through my fault,
                        he was almost at death's door?"
                    "Have your own way, Dorothy," I said. "There lives
                        not, I hope, another woman in teh world so uncreasoning and perverse as
                        you."
                    She tossed her head contemptuously and continued to comb her hair.
                    "How, suppose you," I asked, addressing Dorothy's
                        back, as if I were seeking information, "how, suppose you, the
                        Rutland people learned that John was confined in the Haddon dungeon, and how
                        did they come by the keys?"
                    The girl turned for a moment, and a light came to her anger-clouded face as
                        the rainbow steals across the blackened sky.
                    "Malcolm, Malcolm," she cried, and she ran to me with her
                        bare arms outstretched.
                    "Did you liberate him?" she asked. "How did you
                        get the keys?"
                    I know nothing of it, Dorothy, nothing," I replied.
                    
                    "Swear it, Malcolm, swear it," she said.
                    "I will swear to nothing," I said, unclasping her arms from
                        my neck.
                    "Then I will kiss you," she answered, "for you are
                        my dear good brother, and never so long as I live will I agan doubt
                        you."
                    But she did before long doubt me again, and with good cause.
                    Dorothy being in a gentle humor, I took advantage of the opportunity to warn
                        her against betraying John's name to her father. I also told her to
                        ask her father's forgiveness, and advised her to feign consent to
                        the Stanley marriage. Matters had reached a point where some remedy, however
                        desperate, must be applied.
                    Many persons, I fear, will condemn me for advising Dorothy to deceive her
                        father; but what would you have had me do? Should I have told her to marry
                        Stanley? Certainly not. Had I done so, my advice would have availed nothing.
                        Should I have advised her to antagonize her father, thereby keeping alive
                        his wrath, bringing trouble to herself and bitter regret to him? Certainly
                        not. The only course left for me to advise was the least of three
                        evils—a lie. Three evils must be very great indeed when a lie is
                        the least of them. In the vast army of evils with which this world swarms
                        the lie usually occupies a proud position in the front rank. But at times
                        conditions arise when, coward-like, he slinks to the rear and evils greater
                        than he take precedence. In such sad case I found Dorothy, and I sought help
                        from my old enemy, the lie. Dorothy agreed with me and consented to do all
                        in her power to deceive her father, and what she could not do to that end
                        was not worth doing.
                    Dorothy was anxious about John's condition, and sent Jennie Faxton
                        to Bowling Green, hoping a letter would be there for her. Jennie soon
                        returned with a letter, and  Dorothy once more
                        was full of song, for John's letter told her that he was fairly
                        well and that he would by some means see her soon again despite all
                        opposition.
                    "At our next meeting, my fair mistress," John said in the
                        letter, "you must be ready to come with me. I will wait no longer
                        for you. In fairness to me and to yourself you shall not ask me to wait. I
                        will accept no more excuses. You must come with me when next we
                        meet."
                    "Ah, well," said Dorothy to Madge, "if I must go
                        with him, I must. Why did he not talk in that fashion when we rode out
                        together the last time? I like to be made to do what I want to do. He was
                        foolish not to make me consent, or better still would it have been had he
                        taken the reins of my horse and ridden off with me, with or against my will.
                        I might have screamed, and I might have fought him, but I could not have
                        hurt him, and he would have had his way, and—and," with a
                        sigh, I should have had my way."
                    After a brief pause devoted to thought, she continued:—
                    "If I were a man and were wooing a woman, I would first learn what
                        she wanted to do and then—and then, by my word, I would make her do
                        it."
                    I went from Dorothy's room to breakfast, where I found Sir George. I
                        took my seat at the table and he said:—
                    "Who, in God's name, suppose you, could have taken the keys
                        from my pillow?"
                    "Is there any one whom you suspect?" I asked for lack of
                        anything else to say.
                    "I at first thought, of course, that Dorothy had taken
                        them," he answered. "But Madge would not lie, neither
                        would my sister. Dorothy would not hesitate to lie herself blue in the face,
                        but for some reason I believed her when she told me she knew nothing of the
                        affair. Her words sounded like truth for once."
                    
                    "I think, Sir George," said I, "you should have
                        left off 'for once.' Dorothy is not a liar. She has spoken
                        falsely to you only because she fears you. I am sure that a lie is hateful
                        to her."
                    "Malcolm, I wish I could have your faith," he
                        responded.
                    "By the way, Malcolm, have you ever seen the Earl of
                        Leicester?"
                    "I saw him only once. He visited Scotland during the ceremonies at
                        Queen Mary's return from France. I saw him once, and then but
                        briefly. Why do you ask?"
                    "It is whispered among the servants," said Sir George,
                        "that Leicester is at Chatsworth in disguise."
                    Chatsworth was the home of the Duke of Devonshire, and was but a short
                        distance from Haddon. After Sir George spoke, I remembered the words of old
                        Bess.
                    "Still, I do not know why you ask." I said.
                    "My reason is this," replied Sir George; "Dorothy
                        declared the fellow was of noble blood. It is said that Leicester loves
                        gallant adventure incognito. He fears her Majesty's jealousy if in
                        such matters he acts openly. You remember the sad case of Mistress Robsart.
                        I wonder what became of the girl? He made way with her in some murderous
                        fashion, I am sure." Sir George remained in revery for a moment,
                        and then the poor old man cried in tones of distress: "Malcolm, if
                        that fellow whom I struck last night was Leicester, and if he has been
                        trying his hellish tricks on my Doll I—I should pity her; I should
                        not abuse her. I may have been wrong. If he has wronged Doll—if he
                        has wronged my girl, I will pursue him to the ends of the earth for
                        vengeance. That is why I ask if you have ever seen the Earl of Leicester.
                        Was the man who lay upon the floor last night Robert Dudley? If it were he,
                        and if I had known it, I would have beaten him to death then and there. Poor
                        Doll!"
                    Any one hearing the old man speak would easily have  known that Doll was all that life held for him to love.
                    "I do not distinctly remember Leicester's face," I
                        answered, "but since you speak of it, I believe there is a
                        resemblance between him and the man we called Thomas. But even were it he,
                        Sir George, you need have no fear for Dorothy. She of all women is able and
                        willing to protect herself."
                    "I will go to Dorothy and ask her to tell me the truth. Come with
                        me."
                    We again went to Dorothy's room. She had, since I last saw her,
                        received the letter from John of which I have spoken, and when we entered
                        her parlor where she and Madge were eating breakfast we found her very
                        happy. As a result she was willing and eager to act upon my advice.
                    She rose and turned toward her father.
                    "You told me, Doll, that the fellow was of noble blood. Did you
                        speak the truth?"
                    "Yes, father, I spoke the truth. There is no nobler blood in England
                        than his, save that of our royal queen. In that you may believe me, father,
                        for I speak the truth."
                    Sir George remained silent for a moment and then said:—
                    "If the man is he whom I believe him to be he can have no true
                        purpose with you. Tell me, my child—the truth will bring no
                        reproaches from me—tell me, has he misused you in any
                        way?"
                    "No, father, before God, he has been a true gentleman to
                        me."
                    The poor old man struggled for a moment with his emotions; then tears came to
                        his eyes and he covered his face with his hands as he started to leave the
                        room.
                    Dorothy ran to him and clasped her arms about his  neck. Those two, father and child, were surely of one blood as
                        shown in the storms of violence and tenderness by which their natures were
                        alternately swept.
                    "Father, you may believe me; you do believe me," said
                        Dorothy. "Furthermore, I tell you that this man has treated me with
                        all courtesy, nay, more: he has treated me with all the reverence he would
                        have shown our queen."
                    "He can have no true purpose with you, Doll," said Sir
                        George, who felt sure that Leicester was the man.
                    "But he has, father, a true purpose with me. He would make me his
                        wife to-day would I consent."
                    "Why then does he not seek you openly?"
                    "That he cannot do," Dorothy responded hesitatingly.
                    "Tell me, Doll, who is the man?" asked Sir George.
                    I was standing behind him and Dorothy's face was turned toward me.
                        She hesitated, and I knew by her expression that she was about to tell all.
                        Sir George, I believe, would have killed her had she done so. I placed my
                        finger on my lips and shook my head.
                    Dorothy said: "That I cannot tell you, father. You are wasting words
                        in asking me."
                    "Is it because of his wish that you refuse to tell me his
                        name?" asked Sir George. I nodded my head.
                    "Yes, father," softly responded Dorothy in the old
                        dangerous, dulcet tones.
                    "That is enough; I know who the man is."
                    Dorothy kissed her father. He returned the caress, much to my surprise, and
                        left the room.
                    When I turned to follow Sir George I glanced toward Dorothy. Her eyes were
                        like two moons, so full were they of wonderment and inquiry.
                    I stopped with Sir George in his room. He was meditative and sad.
                    
                    "I believe my Doll has told me the truth," he said.
                    "Have no doubt of it, Sir George," I replied.
                    "But what good intent can Leicester have toward my girl?"
                        he asked.
                    "Of that I cannot say," I replied; "but my dear
                        cousin, of this fact be sure: if he have evil intent toward Dorothy, he will
                        fail."
                    "But there was the Robsart girl," he replied.
                    "Ay," said I, "but Dorothy Vernon is not Amy
                        Robsart. Have no fear of your daughter. She is proof against both villany
                        and craft. Had she been in Mistress Robsart's place, Leicester
                        would not have deserted her. Dorothy is the sort of woman men do not desert.
                        What say you to the fact that Leicester might wish to make her his
                        wife?"
                    "He may purpose to do so secretly, as in the case of the Robsart
                        girl," returned Sir George. "Go, Malcolm, and ask her if
                        he is willing to make her his wife before the world."
                    I was glad of an opportunity for a word with Dorothy, so I hastily went to
                        her. I told her of the Leicester phase of the situation, and I also told her
                        that her father had asked me if the man whom she loved was willing to make
                        her his wife before the world.
                    "Tell my father," said she, "that I will be no
                        man's wife save before all the world. A man who will not
                        acknowledge me never shall possess me."
                    I went back to Sir George and delivered the message word for word.
                    "She is a strange, strong girl, isn't she,
                        Malcolm?" said her father.
                    "She is her father's child," I replied.
                    "By my spurs she is. She should have been a man," said Sir
                        George, with a twinkle of admiration in his eyes. He admired a good fight
                        even though he were beaten in it.
                    
                    It is easy to be good when we are happy. Dorothy, the great disturber, was
                        both. Therefore, peace reigned once more in Haddon Hall.
                    Letters frequently passed between John and Dorothy by the hand of Jennie
                        Faxton, but John made no attempt to meet his sweetheart. He and Dorothy were
                        biding their time.
                    A fortnight passed during which Cupid confined his operations to Madge and
                        myself. For her sweet sake he was gracious and strewed our path with roses.
                        I should delight to tell you of our wooing. She a fair young creature of
                        eighteen, I a palpitating youth of thirty-five. I should love to tell you of
                        Madge's promise to be my wife, and of the announcement in the Hall
                        of our betrothal; but there was little of interest in it to any one save
                        ourselves, and I fear lest you should find it very sentimental and dull
                        indeed. I should love to tell you also of the delightful walks which Madge
                        and I took together along the sweet old Wye and upon the crest of Bowling
                        Green; but above all would I love to tell you of the delicate rose tints
                        that came to her cheek, and how most curiously at times, when my
                        sweetheart's health was bounding, the blessed light of day would
                        penetrate the darkened wincry out joyously, "Oh, Malcolm, I can
                        dimly see." I say I should love to tell you about all those joyous
                        happenings, but after all I fear I should shrink from doing so in detail,
                        for the feelings and sayings of our own hearts are sacred to us. It is much
                        easier to tell of the love affairs of others
                    A fortnight or three weeks passed quietly in Haddon Hall. Sir George had the
                        notion firmly fixed in his head that the man whom Dorothy had been meeting
                        held honorable intentions toward the girl. He did her the justice to believe
                        that by reason of her strength and purity she would tolerate none other. At
                        times he felt sure that the  man was
                        Leicester, and again he flouted the thought as impossible. If it were
                        Leicester, and if he wished to marry Dorothy, Sir George thought the match
                        certainly would be illustrious. Halting between the questions, "Is
                        he Leicester?" and "Is he not Leicester?" Sir
                        George did not press the Stanley nuptials, nor did he insist upon the
                        signing of the contract. Dorothy received from her father full permission to
                        go where and when she wished. But her father's willingness to give
                        her liberty excited her suspicions. She knew he would permit her to leave
                        the Hall only that he might watch her, and, if possible, entrap her and
                        John. Therefore, she rode out only with Madge and me, and sought no
                        opportunity to see her lover. It may be that her passiveness was partly due
                        to the fact that she knew her next meeting with John would mean farewell to
                        Haddon Hall. She well knew she was void of resistance when in
                        John's hands. And his letter had told her frankly what he would
                        expect from her when next they should meet. She was eager to go to him; but
                        the old habit of love for home and its sweet associations and her returning
                        affection for her father, now that he was kind to her, were strong cords
                        entwining her tender heart, which she could not break suddenly even for the
                        sake of the greater joy.
                    One day Dorothy received from John a letter telling her he would on the
                        following morning start for the Scottish border with the purpose of meeting
                        the queen of Scotland. A plan had been formed among Mary's friends
                        in Scotland to rescue her from Lochleven Castle, where she was a prisoner,
                        and to bring her incognito to Rutland. John had been chosen to escort her
                        from the English border to his father's castle. From thence, when
                        the opportunity should arise, she was to escape to France, or make her peace
                        with Elizabeth. The adventure was full of peril both for her Scottish and
                        English friends. The Scottish regent Murray 
                        surely would hang all the conspirators whom he might capture, and Elizabeth
                        would probably inflict summary punishment upon any of her subjects whom she
                        could convict of complicity in the plot.
                    In connection with this scheme to rescue Mary it was said there was also
                        another conspiracy. There appeared to be a plot within a plot which had for
                        its end the enthronement of Mary in Elizabeth's stead.
                    The Rutlands knew nothing of this subplot.
                    Elizabeth had once or twice expressed sympathy with her Scottish cousin. She
                        had said in John's presence that while she could not for reasons of
                        state invite Mary to seek refuge in England, still if Mary
                        would come uninvited she would be welcomed. Therefore, John thought he was
                        acting in accord with the English queen's secret wish when he went
                        to Rutland with the purpose of being in readiness to meet Mary at the
                        Scottish border.
                    There were two elements in Elizabeth's character on which John had
                        not counted. One was her royal prerogative to speak words she did not mean;
                        and the other was the universal feminine privilege to change her mind. Our
                        queen did not want Mary to visit England, nor had she any knowledge of the
                        plot to induce that event. She did, however, fear that Mary's
                        unwise friends among the Catholics cherished the purpose of making Mary
                        queen of England. Although John had heard faint rumors of such a plot, he
                        had been given to understand that Mary had no share in it, and he believed
                        that the adventure in which he was about to embark had for its only purpose
                        her liberation from a cruel and unjust imprisonment. Her cause appealed to
                        John's chivalrous nature as it appealed to so many other good
                        though mistaken men who sought to give help to the Scottish queen, and
                        brought only grief to her and ruin to themselves.
                    Dorothy had heard at various times just enough of these  plots to fill her heart with alarm when she learned that John
                        was about to be engaged in them. Her trouble was twofold. She feared lest
                        personal injury or death might befall John; and jealousy, that shame of
                        love, gnawed at her heart despite her efforts to drive it away.
                    "Is she so marvellously beautiful?" Dorothy asked of me
                        over and over again, referring to Mary Stuart. "Is she such a
                        marvel of beauty and fascination that all men fall before her?"
                    "That usually is the result," I replied. "I have
                        never known her to smile upon a man who did not at once respond by falling
                        upon his knees to her."
                    My reply certainly was not comforting.
                    "Ah, then, I am lost," she responded, with a tremulous
                        sigh. "Is—is she prone to smile on men
                        and—and—to grow fond of them?"
                    "I should say, Dorothy, that both the smiling and the fondness have
                        become a habit with her."
                    "Then she will be sure to choose John from among all men. He is so
                        glorious and perfect and beautiful that she will be eager
                        to—to—O God! I wish he had not gone to fetch
                        her."
                    "You need have no fear," I said reassuringly.
                        "While Mary Stuart is marvellously beautiful and fascinating, there
                        is at least one woman who excels her. Above all, that woman is pure and
                        chaste."
                    "Who is she, that one woman, Malcolm? Who is she?" asked
                        the girl, leaning forward in her chair and looking at me eagerly with
                        burning eyes.
                    "You are already a vain girl, Dorothy, and I shall not tell you who
                        that one woman is," I answered laughingly.
                    "No, no, Malcolm, I am not vain in this matter. It is of too great
                        moment to me for the petty vice of vanity to have any part in it. You do not
                        understand me. I care not for my beauty, save for his sake. I long to be
                        more  beautiful, more fascinating, and more
                        attractive than she—than any woman living—only because I
                        long to hold John—to keep him from her, from all others. I have
                        seen so little of the world that I must be sadly lacking in those arts which
                        please men, and I long to possess the beauty of the angels, and the
                        fascinations of Satan that I may hold John, hold him, hold him, hold him.
                        That I may hold him so sure and fast that it will be impossible for him to
                        break from me. At times, I almost wish he were blind; then he could see no
                        other woman. Ah, am I not a wicked, selfish girl? But I will not allow
                        myself to become jealous. He is all mine, isn't he,
                        Malcolm?" She spoke with nervous energy, and tears were ready to
                        spring from her eyes.
                    "He is all yours, Dorothy," I answered, "all
                        yours, as surely as that death will some day come to all of us. Promise me,
                        Dorothy, that you will never again allow a jealous thought to enter your
                        heart. You have no cause for jealousy, nor will you ever have. If you permit
                        that hateful passion to take possession of you, it will bring ruin in its
                        wake."
                    "It was, indeed, foolish in me," cried Dorothy, springing
                        to her feet and clasping her hands tightly; "and I promise never
                        again to feel jealousy. Malcolm, its faintest touch tears and gnaws at my
                        heart and racks me with agony. But I will drive it out of me. Under its
                        influence I am not responsible for my acts. It would quickly turn me mad. I
                        promise, oh, I swear, that I never will allow it to come to me
                        again."
                    Poor Dorothy's time of madness was not far distant nor was the evil
                        that was to follow in its wake.
                    John in writing to Dorothy concerning his journey to Scotland had
                        unhesitatingly intrusted to her keeping his honor, and, unwittingly, his
                        life. It did not once occur to him that she could, under any conditions,
                        betray him. I  trusted her as John did until I
                        saw her vivid flash of burning jealousy. But by the light of that flash I
                        saw that should the girl, with or without reason, become convinced that Mary
                        Stuart was her rival, she would quickly make Derbyshire the warmest locality
                        in Christendom, and John's life might pay the cost of her folly.
                        Dorothy would brook no rival—no, not for a single hour. Should she
                        become jealous she would at once be swept beyond the influence of reason or
                        the care for consequences. It were safer to arouse a sleeping devil than
                        Dorothy Vernon's jealousy.
                    Now about the time of John's journey to the Scottish border, two
                        matters of importance arose at Haddon Hall. One bore directly upon Dorothy,
                        namely, the renewal by the Stanleys of their suit for her hand. The other
                        was the announcement by the queen that she would soon do Sir George Vernon
                        the honor of spending a fortnight under the roof of Haddon Hall. Each event
                        was of great importance to the King of the Peak. He had concluded that
                        Thomas, the man-servant, was not the Earl of Leicester in disguise, and when
                        the Earl of Derby again came forward with his marriage project, Sir George
                        fell back into his old hardness toward Dorothy, and she prepared her
                        armament, offensive and defensive, for instant use if need should arise. I
                        again began my machinations, since I can call my double dealing by no other
                        name. I induced Dorothy to agree to meet the earl and his son James. Without
                        promising positively to marry Lord Stanley, she, at my suggestion, led her
                        father to believe she was ready to yield to his wishes. By this course she
                        gained time and liberty, and kept peace with her father. Since you have seen
                        the evils that war brought to Haddon, you well know how desirable peace was.
                        In time of war all Haddon was a field of carnage and unrest. In time of
                        peace the dear old Hall was an ideal home. I persuaded Sir George not to
                        insist on a positive promise from Dorothy, 
                        and I advised him to allow her yielding mood to grow upon her. I assured him
                        evasively that she would eventually succumb to his paternal authority and
                        love.
                    What an inherent love we all have for meddling in the affairs of others, and
                        what a delicious zest we find in faithfully applying our surplus energies to
                        business that is not strictly our own! I had become a part of the Sir
                        George-Dorothy-John affair, and I was like the man who caught the bear: I
                        could not loose my hold.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII
                    PROUD DAYS FOR THE
                            OLD HALL
                    
                    Of course the queen's approaching visit threw Haddon Hall into a
                        frenzy of scrubbing and furbishing. Aunt Dorothy was the busiest woman in
                        England. Floors were newly polished. Draperies were taken down and were
                        carefully washed with mysterious concoctions warranted to remove dirt
                        without injury to color. Superfine wax was bought in great boxes, and
                        candles were made for all the chandeliers and candelabra in the house.
                        Perfumed oil was purchased for the lamp in the state bedroom. Elizabeth, by
                        the way, when she came, did not like the odor of the oil, and with an oath
                        tossed both the oil and the lamp out of the window. The fattest sheep, kine,
                        and hogs were chosen from the flocks and were brought in to be stall-fed in
                        such numbers that one might have supposed we were expecting an ogress who
                        could eat an ox at a meal. Pipers and dancers were engaged, and a merry fool
                        was brought down from London. At last the eventful day came and with it came
                        our queen. She brought with her a hundred yeomen of her guard and a score of
                        ladies and gentlemen. Among the latter was the Earl of Leicester, who was
                        the queen's prime favorite.
                    Prior to the queen's announcement of her intention to visit Haddon
                        Sir George had, with Dorothy's tacit consent, fixed a day upon
                        which the Earl of Derby and his son, Lord James, should be received at the
                        Hall for the  purpose of signing the marriage
                        contract. Dorothy, of course, had no intention of signing the contract, but
                        she put off the evil hour of refusal as far as possible, hoping something
                        might occur in the meantime to help her out of the dilemma. Something did
                        occur at the last moment. I am eager to tell you about it, but it must wait
                        its turn. Truly would the story of this ingenious girl's life make
                        a romance if it were written by a poet. In her Guinevere and Elaine were
                        moulded into one person with the tenderness, purity, and fierceness of
                        each.
                    To postpone further the time of the Stanley visit, Dorothy suggested that the
                        betrothal should take place in the presence of the queen. Sir George
                        acquiesced, and in his heart grew less eager for the Stanley match as
                        Dorothy apparently became more tractable. He was, however, engaged with the
                        earl to an extent that forbade withdrawal, even had he been sure that he
                        wished to withdraw.
                    At the time of which I speak the Earl of Leicester was the most exalted
                        subject of the realm. He was ardently devoted to the cause of the ladies,
                        and, although he had fixed his hope on Elizabeth and longed for a seat
                        beside her on the throne, his inflammable heart was constantly catching fire
                        from other eyes. He, of course, made desperate efforts to conceal these
                        manifold conflagrations from the queen, but the in flammable tow of his
                        heart was always bringing him into trouble with his fiery mistress.
                    The earl's first glance toward Dorothy was full of admiration. The
                        second glance was full of conflagration. The second day of the
                        queen's residence in Haddon I was astonished, grieved, and angered
                        to see that our girl had turned her powerful batteries upon the earl with
                        the evident purpose of conquest. At times her long lashes would fall before
                        him, and again her great luminous eyes would open wide, shedding a soft
                        radiance which no man could withstand. Once I saw her walking alone with him
                        upon  the terrace. Her head was drooped
                        shamelessly, and the earl was ardent though restless, being fearful of the
                        queen. I boiled with rage against Dorothy, but by a strong effort I did not
                        boil over until I had better cause. The better cause came later.
                    I failed to tell you of a brief conversation which occurred between Sir
                        George and me after my cousin first saw the Earl of Leicester. Sir George
                        had gallantly led the queen to her apartments, and I had conducted Leicester
                        and several of the gentlemen to their various rooms. Sir George and I met at
                        the staircase after we had quitted our guests.
                    He said: "Malcolm, that fellow Thomas whom I knocked in the head
                        looked no more like Leicester than I do. Why did you tell me there was
                        resemblance?"
                    "I do not know," I answered. "Perhaps your words
                        suggested the thought of a resemblance. Perhaps I had lost all memory of
                        Leicester's features. I cannot answer your question."
                    Then an expression of anger came to Sir George's face, and he
                        said:—
                    "I believe Dorothy lied to me when she said that the fellow Thomas
                        was of noble blood."
                    The next day a servant reported that Thomas had been seen loitering near
                        Bowling Green Gate, and Sir George ordered Dorothy not to leave the Hall
                        without his permission.
                    Dorothy replied to her father's command, "I shall obey you,
                        father."
                    To me there was a note of danger in her voice. Such docile submissiveness was
                        not natural to the girl. Of course all appearance of harshness toward
                        Dorothy was suppressed by Sir George during the queen's visit to
                        the Hall. In truth, he had no reason to be harsh, for Dorothy was a meek,
                        submissive, and obedient daughter.  Her
                        meekness, however, as you may well surmise, was but the forerunner of dire
                        rebellion.
                    The fourth day of the queen's presence at Haddon Hall was the one
                        appointed for the visit of the Stanleys, and Sir George thought to make a
                        great event of the betrothal by having the queen act as a witness to the
                        marriage contract. As the day approached Sir George became thoughtful, while
                        Dorothy grew gleeful. The girl was frequently seen with Leicester, and Sir
                        George could not help noticing that nobleman's pronounced
                        admiration for his daughter. These exhibitions of gallantry were never made
                        in the presence of the queen. The morning of the day when the Stanleys were
                        expected Sir George called me to his room for a prrivate consultation. The
                        old gentleman was in a state of excitement, not unmixed with perplexity and
                        trouble.
                    He said, "I have great and good news to impart to you, Malcolm; yet
                        I am in a dilemma growing out of it."
                    "Tell me the good news first, Sir George," I replied.
                        "The dilemma may wait."
                    "Is Doll a very beautiful girl?" he asked eagerly.
                    "I believe she is the most beautiful woman in the world," I
                        answered.
                    "Good, good," he replied, rubbing his hands. "Is
                        she so fascinating, brilliant, and attractive, think you—of course
                        I speak in jest—but think you she might vie with the court ladies
                        for beauty, and think you she might attract—for the sake of
                        illustration I will say—might she attract a man like
                        Leicester?"
                    "Unless I am much mistaken," I answered,
                        "Leicester is over his ears in love with the girl
                        now."
                    "Ah, do you believe so, Malcolm?" replied Sir George,
                        laughing and slapping his thigh, as he walked to and fro across the room.
                        "You have seen so much of that sort of  thing that you should know it when it comes under your nose. Eh, Malcolm,
                        eh?"
                    "I should suppose that any one, however inexperienced in such
                        matters, could easily see Leicester's infatuation for Dorothy. If
                        you wish me to tell you what I really believe—"
                    "I do, I do," interrupted Sir George.
                    "I should say," I continued, "that Dorothy has
                        deliberately gone in for conquest. Leave the girl to herself, Sir George.
                        She can conduct the campaign without help from any one. She understands the
                        art of such warfare as well as if she were a veteran."
                    "Gad, but she does, but she does. I believe she could give Venus
                        herself some good points in the matter. But let me tell you,
                        Malcolm,"—the old man dropped his voice to a
                        whisper,—"I questioned Doll this morning, and she
                        confessed that Leicester had spoken words of love to her. Would it not be a
                        great match for our house?"
                    He said "our house," mind you, not "our
                        Doll." I might call his condition of mind patrimonial selfishness.
                        Simple old man! He did not know that words of love are not necessarily words
                        of marriage.
                    "Has Leicester spoken to you?" I asked in alarm for
                        John's sake.
                    "No, no, he has not spoken," returned my cousin;
                        "for that, of course, he must have the queen's consent.
                        But he will speak, I am sure, all in good time, Malcolm, all in good
                        time."
                    "How about the Stanleys?" I asked. "They will be
                        here this afternoon."
                    "That's the devil's finger in the
                        matter," cried Sir George. "That's where my
                        dilemma lies. How shall I put them off, and still retain them in case
                        nothing should come from Leicester? Besides, I am in honor bound to the
                        earl."
                    
                    "I have a plan," I replied. "You carry out your
                        part of the agreement with the earl, but let Dorothy, at the last moment,
                        refuse to give her consent. Let her ask for more time, on the plea that she
                        does not know her mind. I will suggest to her, if you wish, the part she is
                        to play; but I will conceal from her the fact that you are a party to
                        it."
                    "No," said the old man, "that would be bad faith
                        toward the earl." After a pause he continued doubtingly:
                        "No, do not speak to Doll. I believe she needs no suggestions in
                        the matter. I fear that mischief is in her mind already. Her easy
                        acquiescence in my wishes have of late had a suspicious appearance. No,
                        don't speak to her, Malcolm. If ever there lived a girl who could
                        be perverse and wilful on her own account, without help from any one, it is
                        my girl Doll. God bless you, man, if she but knew that I wanted her to
                        reject Stanley, she would have him in spite of hell itself. I wonder what
                        she means by her docility and obedience? No, don't speak a word to
                        her on the subject. Let her believe I am serious regarding this marriage,
                        and she will have some plan of her own to raise the devil. I have been
                        expecting signs of it every day. I had determined not to bear with her
                        perversity, but now that the Leicester possibility has come up
                        we'll leave Doll to work out her own salvation, Malcolm.
                        Don't interfere. No man living can teach that girl a new trick in
                        deviltry. Gods, Malcolm! I am curious to know what she will be doing, for
                        she certainly will be doing something rather than sign that contract of
                        betrothal."
                    "But suppose out of obedience to you she should sign the
                        contract?" I asked.
                    "Malcolm, you don't know Doll," he replied. Then,
                        after a pause, "Neither do I. I wish she were well
                        married."
                    When I left Sir George, I found Dorothy in close consultation  with the queen and two of her ladies. I heard
                        the name of Lord James Stanley spoken amid suppressed laughter, and I
                        suspected Dorothy had on foot some prank touching that young man, to which
                        her Majesty was a party.
                    After dinner the Stanleys came a-wooing. The party consisted of father, son,
                        and four retainers, who looked as if they had been preserved in alcohol for
                        the occasion, so red were their faces.
                    The Earl of Derby was a fine old gentleman of the rural type. His noble son
                        was an uncouth rustic, who had no thought above a stable boy or tavern maid,
                        nor any ambition above horse trading. His attire was a wonder to behold. He
                        wore a ruff of stupendous proportions. His trunks were so puffed out and
                        preposterous in size that they looked like a great painted knot on a tree;
                        and the many-colored splendors of his sleeves, his hat, his hose, and his
                        shoes were dazzling to the eye. Add to this wondrous raiment feet and hands
                        that could not be satisfactorily disposed of, and an unrest of manner
                        painful to behold, and you may possibly conceive the grandiose absurdity of
                        Dorothy's wooer. The sight of him almost made Sir George ill; and
                        his entrance into the long gallery, where the queen was seated with her
                        ladies and gentlemen, and Sir George and his friends standing about her, was
                        a signal for laughter in which her Majesty openly joined.
                    I shall not lead you through the tedious ceremony of presentation and
                        introduction, nor shall I tell you of the pompous manner in which one of the
                        earl's retinue, a lawyer, read the marriage contract. The fact that
                        the contract was read without the presence of Dorothy, whom it so nearly
                        concerned, was significant of the small consideration which at that time was
                        given to a girl's consent. When all was ready for the signing,
                        Dorothy was summoned.
                    
                    Sir George stood beside the Stanleys, and his nervousness was painfully
                        apparent. Two servants opened the great doors at the end of the long
                        gallery, and Dorothy, holding up the skirt of her gown, bounded into the
                        room. She kneeled to the queen, and turned toward her uncle Stanley and her
                        lover-cousin with a low bow. Then she courtesied and said:—
                    "Good even, uncle, and how do you do, cousin. Have you come to
                        inspect me, and, perchance, to buy?"
                    Sir George's face bore an expression of mingled shame, wonder, and
                        alarm, and the queen and her suite laughed behind their fans.
                    "It is well," continued Dorothy. "Here am I, ready
                        for inspection." Thereupon she began to disrobe herself before the
                        entire company. Leicester laughed outright, and the queen and her ladies
                        suppressed their merriment for a moment, and then sent forth peals of
                        laughter without restraint. Sir George stepped toward the girl and raised
                        his hand warningly, but the queen interposed:—
                    "Silence, Sir George, I command you;" and Sir George
                        retreated to his former place beside the Earl of Derby. Dorothy first
                        removed her bodice, showing her shoulders and a part of her arms, clothed in
                        the fashion of a tavern maid.
                    Leicester, who stood by me, whispered, "God never made anything more
                        beautiful than Mistress Vernon's arms."
                    Sir George again spoke angrily, "Doll, what are you doing?"
                        But the queen by a wave of her band commanded silence. Then the girl put her
                        hands behind her, and loosened the belt which held her skirt in place. The
                        skirt fell to the floor, and out of it bounded Dorothy in the short gown of
                        a maid.
                    "You will be better able to judge of me in this costume,
                        cousin," said Dorothy. "It will be more familiar to you
                        than the gowns which ladies wear."
                    
                    "I will retract," said Leicester, whispering to me, and
                        gazing ardently at Dorothy's ankles. "God has made
                        something more beautiful than Mistress Vernon's arms. By Venus! I
                        suppose that in His omnipotence He might be able to create something more
                        beautiful than her ankles, but up to this time He has not vouchsafed to me a
                        vision of it. Ah! did any one ever behold such strength, such perfect
                        symmetry, such—St. George! the gypsy doesn't live who can
                        dance like that."
                    Sure enough, Dorothy was dancing. The pipers in the balcony had burst forth
                        in a ribald jig of a tune, and the girl was whirling in a wild, weird, and
                        wondrous dance before her lover-cousin. Sir George ordered the pipers to
                        cease playing; but again Elizabeth, who was filled with mirth, interrupted,
                        and the music pealed forth in wanton volumes which flooded the gallery.
                        Dorothy danced like an elfin gypsy to the inspiring strains. Soon her dance
                        changed to wondrous imitations of the movements of a horse. She walked
                        sedately around in an ever increasing circle; she trotted and paced; she
                        gave the single foot and racked; she galloped, slowly for a while, and then
                        the gallop merged into a furious run which sent the blood of her audience
                        thrilling through their veins with delight. The wondrous ease and grace, and
                        the marvellous strength and quickness of her movements, cannot be described.
                        I had never before thought the human body capable of such grace and agility
                        as she displayed.
                    After her dance was finished she stepped in front of her cousin and delivered
                        herself as follows:—
                    "I am sound from ear tip to fetlock. There is not a blemish in
                        me."
                    "No, by my faith, I will swear there is not!" cried the
                        Earl of Leicester.
                    "I have good wind," continued Dorothy, "two good
                        eyes. By night or by day I can see everything within  the range of my vision, and a great deal that is not. I shy,
                        at times, when an uncouth object suddenly comees upon me. I am warranted
                        gentle if properly handled, but otherwise it is unsafe to curry my
                        heels."
                    Sir George could no longer restrain himself, and again tried to prevent
                        Dorothy from proceeding with her terrible insult to the Stanleys. The queen,
                        however, was determined to see the end of the frolic, and she
                        said:—
                    "Proceed, Mistress Vernon, proceed."
                    Dorothy, nothing loath, continued: "As for my disposition, it might
                        be better. It probably will improve with age, if it doesn't grow
                        worse. I have all the gaits a horse should have. I am four years old, I have
                        never been trained to work double, and I think I never shall be. What think
                        you? Now what have you to offer in exchange? Step out and let me see you
                        move."
                    She took the poor youth by the hand and led him to the middle of the
                        floor.
                    "How old are you? Show me your teeth," she said. The heir
                        to Derby smiled uneasily, and drew his hand across his nose.
                    "Ah, you have a touch of the distemper, I see. Are you subject to
                        it?"
                    Stanley smiled, and the earl said:—"
                    "Sir George, this insult has gone far enough."
                    "Stand back, my Lord Derby," said the queen. "Do
                        not interfere with this interesting barter."
                    The earl reluctantly lapsed into silence. He remembered the insult of her
                        Majesty's words all his life.
                    "Now step off," said Dorothy to Lord James.
                    The young man stood in helpless confusion. Dorothy took a step backward from
                        him, and after watching Stanley a moment said:—
                    "What! You can neither trot, pace, nor gallop? I don't
                        believe you can even walk alone." Then she turned  toward Sir George. A smile was on her lips,
                        but a look from hell was in her eyes as she said:—
                    "Father, take a lesson from this day. I gave you fair warning. Bring
                        me no more scurvy cobs for barter norr trade." Then she turned to
                        the Earl of Derby and to her cousin Lord James, made a deep courtesy, and
                        said:—
                    "You can have no barter with me. Good day."
                    She ran from the room, and a great peal of laughter from all save Sir George
                        and the Stanleys followed her as she passed out through the double door.
                        When the laughter had subsided, the Earl of Derby turned to Sir George and
                        said:—
                    "Sir George, this insult is unbearable, and I shall expect
                        satisfaction for it." Then he turned to the queen: "I beg
                        that your Majesty will give me leave to depart with my son."
                    "Granted," answered Elizabeth, and father and son started
                        to leave the room, moving backward toward the great doors. Sir George asked
                        the earl and Lord Stanley to remain, and in the presence of the company who
                        had witnessed the insult, he in the humblest manner made abject apology for
                        the treatment his distinguished guests had received at the hands of his
                        daughter. He very honestly and in all truth disclaimed any sympathy with
                        Dorothy's conduct, and offered, as the only reparation he could
                        make, to punish her in some way befitting the offence. Then he conducted the
                        guests to the mounting block near the entrance tower and saw them depart.
                        Dorothy had solved her father's dilemma with a vengeance.
                    Sir George was not sure that he wanted to be angry at Dorothy, though he felt
                        it was a duty he owed to himself and to the Stanleys. He had wished that the
                        girl would in some manner defer the signing of the contract, but he had not
                        wanted her to refuse young Stanley's hand in a manner so insulting
                        that the match would be broken off altogether.
                    
                    As the day progressed, and as Sir George ponderer over Dorothy's
                        conduct, he grew more inclined to anger; but during the afternoon she kept
                        well under the queen's wing, and he found no opportunity to give
                        vent to his ill-temper.
                    Late that night he called me to his room. He had been drinking during the
                        evening and was poised between good-humored hilarity and ill-tempered
                        ferocity. The latter condition was usually the result of his libations. When
                        I entered the room it was evident he was amused.
                    "Did you ever hear or see such brazen effrontery?" he
                        asked, referring to Dorothy's treatment of the Stanleys.
                        "Is there another girl on earth who would have conceived the absurd
                        thought, or, having conceived it, would have dared to carry it
                        out?"
                    I took a chair and replied, "I think there is not
                        another."
                    "I hope not," continued Sir George. He sat in thought for a
                        moment, and then broke forth into a great laugh. When he had finished
                        laughing he said: "I admit it was laughable and—and
                        pretty—beautiful. Damme, I didn't know the girl could do
                        it, Malcolm! I didn't know she had it in her. There is not another
                        girl living could have carried the frolic through." Then he spoke
                        seriously, "But I will make her smart for it when the queen leaves
                        Haddon."
                    "Sir George, if you will allow me to suggest what I feel on the
                        subject, I would say that you have no reason whatever for desiring to make
                        Dorothy smart. She may have deeper designs than we can see."
                    "What designs do you suppose she can have? Tell me,
                        Malcolm," asked Sir George.
                    I remained silent for a moment, hardly knowing how to express my thought.
                        "Certainly she could not have appeared to a better advantage than
                        in her tavern maid's costume," I said.
                    
                    "That is true," answered Sir George. "Though she
                        is my own daughter, I must admit that I have never seen any woman so
                        beautiful as she." The old gentleman laughed softly for a moment
                        and said: "But wasn't it brazen? Wasn't it
                        shameless? I have always given the girl credit for modesty,
                        but—damme, damme—"
                    "Her beauty in the tavern maid's costume fired
                        Leicester's heart as nothing else could have done," I
                        said. "He stood by my side, and was in raptures over her
                        charms."
                    Sir George mused a moment and said something about the "Leicester
                        possibility," which I knew to be an impossibility, and before I
                        left him he had determined to allow the matter to drop for the present.
                        "I am making a damned pretty mess of the whole affair, I fear,
                        Malcolm," he said.
                    "You don't seem to be clearing it up, Sir George,"
                        I responded.
                    After talking over some arrangements for the queen's entertainment,
                        I said good night, and left my cousin brooding over as complicated a problem
                        as man ever tried to solve.
                    The next morning I told Dorothy how her father felt with respect to the
                        "Leicester possibility." She laughed and
                        said:—
                    "I will encourage father in that matter, and," with a saucy
                        twinkle in her eye, "incidentally I will not discourage my proud
                        lord of Leicester. I will make the most of the situation, fear not,
                        Malcolm."
                    "I do not fear," said I, emphatically.
                    There it was: the full-blown spirit of conquest, strong even in a love-full
                        heart. God breathed into Adam the breath of life; but into Eve he breathed
                        the love of conquest, and it has been growing stronger in the hearts of her
                        daughters with each recurring generation.
                    "How about John?" I asked.
                    
                    "Oh, John?" she answered, throwing her head
                        contemd-platively to one side. "He is amply able to protect his own
                        interests. I could not be really untrue to him if I wished to be. It is I
                        who am troubled on the score of infidelity. John will be with the most
                        beautiful queen—" She broke off in the midst of her
                        sentence, and her face became clouded with an expression of anger and
                        hatred. "God curse her! I wish she were dead, dead, dead. There!
                        you know how I feel toward your English-French-Scottish beauty. Curse the
                        mongrel—" She halted before the ugly word she was about to
                        use; but her eyes were like glowing embers, and her cheeks were flushed by
                        the heat of anger.
                    "Did you not promise me, Dorothy, that you would not again allow
                        yourself to become jealous of Queen Mary?" I asked.
                    "Yes, I promised, but I cannot prevent the jealousy, and I do not
                        intend to try. I hate her, and I love to hate her."
                    "Why should you hate her?" I asked. "If John
                        remains true to you, there is certainly no cause for you to hate any one. If
                        he should be untrue to you, you should hate him."
                    "Hate him?" she exclaimed. "That, indeed, is
                        pretty reasoning. If he should be untrue to me, I should of course hate her.
                        I could not hate him. I did not make myself love him. I would never have
                        been so great a fool as to bring that pain upon myself intentionally. I
                        suppose no girl would deliberately make herself love a man and bring into
                        her heart so great an agony. I feel toward John a I do, because I must; and
                        I hate your Scottish mongrel because I must. I tell you, Malcolm, when she
                        comes to Rutland, if I hear of her trying any of her wanton tricks on John
                        there will be trouble—mark my words!"
                    "I ask you to promise me this, Dorothy: that you will  do nothing concerning John and Queen Mary
                        without first speaking to me."
                    She paced across the room angrily. "I promise you nothing, Malcolm,
                        save that I shall not allow that woman to come between John and me. That I
                        promise you, on my oath."
                    Dorothy continued to shed her luminous smiles on Leicester, though she was
                        careful not to shine in the queen's presence. My lord was dazzled
                        by the smiles, and continually sought opportunities to bask in their
                        dangerous light. As a result of this smiling and basking the great London
                        heart-breaker was soon helplessly caught in the toils of Doll, the country
                        maiden. She played him as an angler plays a trout. The most experienced
                        court coquette could not have done the part better than did this girl, whose
                        knowledge of the subject was wholly intuitive, for her life had all been
                        spent amid the green hills and groves of Derbyshire. She so managed the
                        affair that her father should see enough of Leicester's preference
                        to keep alive in Sir George's mind the hope for the
                        "Leicester possibility." Those words had become with her a
                        phrase slyly to play upon.
                    One afternoon when the sun was graciously warm and bright, I induced Madge to
                        walk with me upon the terrace, that I might for a few moments feel the touch
                        of her hand and hear her whispered words. We took a seat by a large holly
                        bush, which effectually concealed us from view. We had been there but a few
                        moments when we heard footsteps approaching. Looking between the branches of
                        the holly bush I saw Dorothy and Leicester-coming toward us from the north
                        end of the terrace. Dorothy's eyes were cast down demurely, and her
                        head hung in the attitude of a shy, modest girl, who listens timidly to
                        words that are music in her ears. Never have I seen an attitude more
                        indicative of the receptive mood than that which Dorothy assumed toward
                        Leicester.
                    
                    "Ah," thought I, "poor John has given his heart
                        and has risked his life for the sake of Doll, and Doll is a miserable
                        coquette."
                    But there was conduct still more objectionable to come from Dorothy.
                    Unconscious of our presence, Leicester said, "My fair beauty, my
                        Venus, here is a settle under this holly bush, well hidden from prying eyes.
                        It invites us. Will you sit here with me for one happy moment, and give me a
                        taste of Paradise?"
                    "I fear I should not sit with you, my lord, however much
                        I—may—may wish to do so. My father or the queen might
                        observe us." The black lashes fell upon the fair cheek, and the red
                        golden head with its crown of glory hung forward convincingly.
                    "You false jade," thought I.
                    "I ask for but one moment," pleaded Leicester.
                        "The queen sleeps at this time after dinner, and perhaps your
                        father would not object if you were to grant this little favor to the first
                        nobleman of the realm."
                    "You do not know my father, my lord. He is very strict regarding my
                        conduct," murmured the drooping head.
                    "I ask for but one little moment," continued the earl,
                        "in which to tell you that you have filled my heart with adoration
                        and love."
                    "I should not listen to you, my lord. Were I mindful of my
                        happiness, I should return to the Hall at once," said the drooping
                        lashes and hanging head.
                    "You lying wench," thought I. By that time I was thoroughly
                        angered.
                    "Only one little moment on the settle," pleaded Leicester,
                        "that I may speak to you that which I wish so ar dently to
                        say."
                    "Can you not speak while we walk, my lord?" asked
                        Dorothy.
                    
                    
                        "'AH,' THOUGHT I . . .,
                            'DOLL IS A MISERABLE COQUETTE.'"
                    
                    
                    I felt a bitter desire to curse the girl.
                    "It is difficult for me to speak while we walk," said
                        Leicester, cautiously taking the girl's hand; so she permitted him
                        to lead her to the settle under the holly bush, on the opposite side of
                        which Madge and I were sitting.
                    The earl retained the hand for a moment after he and Dorothy were seated, but
                        she gently drew it away and moved a little distance from his Lordship.
                        Still, her eyes were drooped, her head hung low, and her bosom actually
                        heaved as if with emotion.
                    "I will tell John of your shamelessness," I said to myself.
                        "He shall feel no more heartaches for you—you wanton
                        huzzy."
                    Then Leicester poured forth his passion most eloquently. Poesy, verse, and
                        rhetoric all came to help him in his wooding. Now and then the girl would
                        respond to his ardor with "Please, my lord," or
                        "I pray you, my lord," and when he would try to take her
                        hand she would say, "I beg you, my lord, do not." But
                        Leicester evidently thought that the "do not" meant
                        "do," for soon he began to steal his arm about her waist,
                        and she was so slow in stopping him that I thought she was going to submit.
                        She, however, arose gently to her feet and said:—
                    "My lord, I must return to the Hall. I may not longer remain here
                        with you."
                    The earl caught her hand and endeavored to kiss it, but she adroitly
                        prevented him, and stepping out into the path, started slowly toward the
                        Hall. She turned her head slightly toward Leicester in a mute but eloquent
                        invitation, and he quickly followed her.
                    I watched the pair walk up the terrace. They descended the steps to the
                        garden, and from thence they entered the Hall by way of the porch.
                    "Was it not very wicked in Dorothy to listen to such  words from Leicester?" asked Madge.
                        "I do not at al understand her."
                    Madge, of course, knew only a part of what had happene, and a very small part
                        at that, for she had not seen Dorothy. Madge and I returned to the Hall, and
                        we went at once to Dorothy's room, hoping to see her, and intending
                        to tell her our opinion of the shameless manner in which she had acted.
                    Dorothy was in her room alone when we entered. She clapped her hands, ran to
                        the door, bolted it, and bounded back toward us.
                    "I have the greatest news to tell you," she cried
                        laughingly,—"the greatest news and the greatest sport of
                        which you ever heard. My lord Leicester is in love with me."
                    "Indeed, that is very fine," I responded; but my irony met
                        its usual fate. She did not see it.
                    "Yes," continued Dorothy, brimming over with mirth,
                        "you should have heard him pleading with me a few moments since
                        upon the terrace."
                    "We did hear him," said Madge.
                    "You heard him? Where? How?" Her eyes were wide with
                        wonder.
                    "We were on the opposite side of the holly bush from you,"
                        I answered. "We heard him and we saw you."
                    "Did you? Good. I am glad of it," said Dorothy.
                    "Yes, we saw and we heard all, and we think that your conduct was
                        shameless," I responded severely.
                    "Shameless?" demanded Dorothy. "Now pray tell me
                        what I did or said that was shameless.
                    I was at a loss to define the wrong in her conduct, for it had been of an
                        intangible quality which in itself was nothing, but notwithstanding meant a
                        great deal.
                    "You permitted him to hold your hand," I said, trying to
                        fix on something real with which to accuse her.
                    "I did nothing of the sort," said Dorothy, laughingly.
                    
                    "He caught my hand several times, but I withdrew it from
                        him."
                    I knew she spoke the truth regarding her hand, so I tried again.
                    "You—you hung your head and kept your eyes cast down, and
                        you looked—"
                    "Oh, I hung my head, I cast down my eyes, and I looked?"
                        she answered, laughing heartily. "Pray let me ask you, Master
                        Fault-finder, for what use else are heads and eyes made?"
                    I was not prepared to say that the uses to which Dorothy had put her head and
                        eyes were not some of the purposes for which they were created. They are
                        good purposes, too, I admit, although I would not have conceded as much to
                        Dorothy. I knew the girl would soon wheedle me into her way of thinking, so
                        I took a bold stand and said:—
                    "It is my intention to tell John about your conduct with Leicester,
                        and I shall learn for what purpose he thinks eyes and heads are
                        created."
                    "Tell John?" cried Dorothy. Of course you may tell John. He
                        well knows the purposes of heads and eyes, and their proper uses. He has
                        told me many times his opinion on the subject." She laughed for a
                        moment, and then continued: "I, too, shall tell John all that
                        happened or shall happen between Lord Leicester and me. I wish I could tell
                        him now. How I wish I could tell him now." A soft light came to her
                        eyes, and she repeated huskily: "If I might tell him now. Why,
                        Malcolm, I despise Leicester. He is a poor, weak fool. He has no more force
                        nor strength than I have. He is not a man. He is no more attractive than a
                        woman. He wanted to kiss me. He begged me to give him but one. It is but a
                        poor kiss which a man gets by begging. Think you I would give him one? Had
                        he but touched my lips, think you I would ever allow John to soil himself
                        again by kissing them? Fear not, Malcolm. 
                        Fear not for John nor for me. No man will ever receive from me a favor, the
                        granting of which would make me unfit to be
                        John's—John's wife. I have paid too dearly for
                        him to throw him away for a penny whistle that I do not want." Then
                        she grew earnest, with a touch of anger: "Leicester! What reason,
                        suppose you, Malcolm, have I for treating him as I do? Think you I act from
                        sheer wantonness? If there were one little spot of that fault upon my soul,
                        I would tear myself from John, though I should die for it."
                    Her laughing mood had passed away, and I feared to say that I could see no
                        reason other than coquetry for her conduct. I feared the red-haired tigress
                        would scratch my eyes out.
                    "I have wanted to see you," she continued, "that I
                        might tell you of my plans and of the way they are working out, but now
                        since you have spoken to me in this manner, Sir Malcolm François de Lorraine
                        Vernon, I shall tell you nothing. You suspect me. Therefore, you shall wait
                        with the rest of the world to learn my purposes. You may tell John all you
                        have seen and heard. I care not how quickly you do it." Then with a
                        sigh: "I pray God it may be very soon. He will wish for no
                        explanation, and he shall one day have in me a rich reward for his
                        faith."
                    "Do you trust him as he trusts you?" I asked, "and
                        would you demand an explanation were he to act toward Mary Stuart as you
                        have acted toward Leicester?"
                    "He could not act toward her as I did toward Lord
                        Leicester," she said thoughtfully. Then after a moment she
                        laughingly continued: "John can't—he
                        can't hang his head and—droop his eyes and
                        look."
                    "But if—" I began.
                    "I want no more of your hellish 'ifs,'"
                        cried the girl in sudden fury. "If John were to—to look at
                        that Scottish mongrel as I looked at Leicester, I would—I would
                        kill the royal wanton. I would kill her if it cost my life.  Now, for God's sake, leave me. You
                        see the state into which you have wrought me." I left Madge with
                        Dorothy and walked out upon Bowling Green to ponder on the events that were
                        passing before me.
                    From the time we learned that John had gone to fetch the Scottish queen I had
                        fears lest Dorothy's inflammable jealousy might cause trouble, and
                        now those fears were rapidly transforming themselves into a feeling of
                        certainty. There is nothing in life so sweet and so dangerous as the love of
                        a hot-blooded woman.
                    I soon saw Dorothy again. "Tell me," said I, in
                        conciliation, "tell me, please, what is your reason for acting as
                        you do toward Leicester, and why should you look differently upon similar
                        conduct on John's part?"
                    I will not tell you my plans," she responded,—"not
                        now, at least. Perhaps I shall do so when I have recovered from my
                        ill-temper. It is hard for me to give my reasons for feeling differently
                        about like conduct on John's part. Perhaps I feel as I do
                        because—because—It is this way: While I might do little
                        things—mere nothings—such as I have done—it would
                        be impossible for me to do any act of unfaithfulness to John. Oh, it could
                        not be. But with him, he—he—well, he is a man
                        and—and—oh, don't talk to me! Don't talk
                        to me! You are driving me mad. Out of my sight! Out of my room! Holy Virgin!
                        I shall die before I have him; I know I shall."
                    There it was again. The thought of Mary Stuart drove her wild. Dorothy threw
                        herself on her face upon the bed, and Madge went over and sat by her side to
                        soothe her. I, with a feeling of guilt, so adroit had been
                        Dorothy's defence, left the girls and went to my room in the tower
                        to unravel, by the help of my pipe, the tangled web of woman's
                        incomprehensibility. I failed, as many another man had failed before me, and
                        as men will continue to fail to the end of time.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV
                    MARY STUART
                    
                    AND now I come to an event in this history which I find difficult to place
                        before you in its true light. For Dorothy's sake I wish I might
                        omit it altogether. But in true justice to her and for the purpose of making
                        you see clearly the enormity of her fault and the palliating excuses
                        therefor, if any there were, I shall pause briefly to show the condition of
                        affairs at the time of which I am about to write—a time when
                        Dorothy's madness brought us to the most terrible straits and
                        plunged us into deepest tribulations.
                    Although I have been unable to show you as much of John as I have wished you
                        to see, you nevertheless must know that he, whose nature was not like the
                        shallow brook but was rather of the quality of a deep, slow-moving river,
                        had caught from Dorothy an infection of love from which he would never
                        recover. His soul was steeped in the delcious essence of the girl. I would
                        also call your attention to the conditions under which his passion for
                        Dorothy had arisen. It is true he received the shaft when first he saw her
                        at the Royal Arms in Derby-town, but the shaft had come from
                        Dorothy's eyes. Afterward she certainly had done her full part in
                        the wooing. It was for her sake, after she had drawn him on to love her,
                        that he became a servant in Haddon Hall. For her sake he faced death at the
                        hands of her father. And it was through her mad  fault that the evil came upon him of which I shall now tell you. That she
                        paid for her fault in suffering does not excuse her, since pain is but the
                        latter half of evil.
                    During the term of Elizabeth's residence in Haddon Hall John
                        returned to Rutland with Queen Mary Stuart, whose escape from Lochleven had
                        excited all England. The country was full of rumors that Mary was coming to
                        of England not so much for sanctuary as to be on the ground ready to accept
                        the English crown when her opportunity to do so should occur. The Catholics,
                        a large and powerful party, flushed with their triumphs under the
                        "Bloody Queen," were believed to sympathize with
                        Mary's cause. Although Elizabeth said little on the subject, she
                        felt deeply, and she feared trouble should the Scottish queen enter her
                        dominion. Another cause of annoyance to Elizabeth was the memory that
                        Leicester had once been deeply impressed with Mary's charms, and
                        had sought her hand in marriage. Elizabeth's prohibition alone had
                        prevented the match. That thought rankled in Elizabeth's heart, and
                        she hated Mary, although her hatred, as in all other cases, was tempered
                        with justice and mercy. This great queen had the brain of a man with its
                        motives, and the heart of a woman with its emotions.
                    When news of Mary's escape reached London, Cecil came in great haste
                        to Haddon. During a consultation with Elizabeth he advised her to seize
                        Mary, should she enter England, and to check the plots made in
                        Mary's behalf by executing the principal friends of the Scottish
                        queen. He insistently demanded that Elizabeth should keep Mary under lock
                        and key, should she be so fortunate as to obtain possession of her person,
                        and that the men who were instrumental in bringing her into England should
                        be arraigned for high treason.
                    John, certainly had been instrumental in bringing her into England, and if
                        Cecil's advice were taken by the 
                        queen, John's head would pay the forfeit for his chivalric help to
                        Mary.
                    Elizabeth was loath to act on this advice, but Cecil worked upon her fears
                        and jealousies until her mind and her heart were in accord, and she gave
                        secret orders that his advice should be carried out. Troops were sent to the
                        Scottish border to watch for the coming of the fugitive queen. But Mary was
                        already ensconced, safely, as she thought, in Rutland Castle under the
                        assumed name of Lady Blanche. Her presence at Rutland was, of course,
                        guarded as a great secret.
                    Dorothy's mind dwelt frequently upon the fact that John and the
                        beautiful young Scottish queen lived under the same roof, for John had
                        written to Dorothy immediately after his return. Nothing so propagates
                        itself as jealousy. There were in Haddon Hall two hearts in which this
                        self-propagating process was rapidly
                        progressing—Elizabeth's and Dorothy's. Each had
                        for the cause of her jealousy the same woman.
                    One night, soon after Cecil had obtained from Elizabeth the order for
                        Mary's arrest, Dorothy, on retiring to her room at a late hour
                        found Jennie Faxton waiting for her with a precious letter from John.
                        Dorothy drank in the tenderness of rain; John's letter as the
                        thirsty earth absorbs the rain; but her joy was neutralized by frequent
                        references to the woman whom she feared might become her rival. One-half of
                        what she feared, she was sure had been accomplished: that is,
                        Mary's half. She knew in her heart that the young queen would
                        certainly grow fond of John. That was a foregone conclusion. No woman could
                        be with him and escape that fate, thought Dorothy. Her hope as to the other
                        half—John's part—rested solely upon her faith in
                        John, which was really great, and her confidence in her own charms and in
                        her own power to hold him, which in truth, and with good reason, was not
                        small.
                    
                    Dorothy went to bed, and Jennie, following her usual custom, when at Haddon,
                        lay upon the floor in the same room. John's letter, with all its
                        tenderness, had thrown Dorothy into an inquisitive frame of mind. After an
                        hour or two of restless tossing upon the bed she fell asleep, but soon after
                        midnight she awakened, and in her drowsy condition the devil himself played
                        upon the strings of her dream-charged imagination. After a time she sprang
                        from the bed, lighted a candle at the rushlight, and read John's
                        letter in a tremor of dream-wrought fear. Then she aroused Jennie Faxton and
                        asked:—
                    "When were you at Rutland?"
                    "I spent yesterday and to-day there, mistress," answered
                        Jennie.
                    "Did you see a strange lady?" asked Dorothy.
                    "Oh, yes, mistress, I did see her three or four times,"
                        answered Jennie. "Lady Blanche is her name, and she be a cousin of
                        Sir John's. She do come, they say, from France, and do speak only
                        in the tongue of that country."
                    "I—I suppose that this—this Lady Blanche
                        and—and Sir John are very good friends? Did you—did
                        you—often see them together?" asked Dorothy. She felt
                        guilty in questioning Jennie for the purpose of spying upon her lover. She
                        knew that John would not pry into her conduct.
                    "Indeed, yes, mistress," returned Jennie, who admired John
                        greatly from her lowly sphere, and who for her own sake as well as
                        Dorothy's was jealous of Queen Mary.
                    "They do walk together a great deal on the ramparts, and the white
                        snaky lady do look up into Sir John's face like
                        this"—her Jennie assumed a lovelorn expression.
                        "And—and once, mistress, I thought—I
                        thought—"
                    "Yes, yes, Jesu!" hissed Dorothy, clutching Jennie by the
                        arm, "you thought, you thought. Tell me! Tell! me that in
                        hell's name did you think? Speak quickly, wench."
                    
                    "I be not sure, mistress, but I thought I saw his arm about her
                        waist one evening on the ramparts. It was dark, and for sure I could not
                        tell, but—"
                    "God's curse upon the white huzzy!" screamed
                        Dorothy. "God's curse upon her! She is stealing him from
                        me, and I am helpless."
                    She clasped her hands over the top of her head and ran to and fro across the
                        room uttering inarticulate cries of agony. Then she sat upon the bedside and
                        threw herself into Madge's arms, crying under her breath:
                        "My God! My God! Think of it, Madge. I have given him my heart, my
                        soul, O merciful God, my love—all that I have worth giving, and now
                        comes this white wretch, and because she is a queen and was sired in hell
                        she tries to steal him from me and coaxes him to put his arm around her
                        waist."
                    "Don't feel that way about it, Dorothy," said
                        Madge, soothingly. "I know Sir John can explain it all to you when
                        you see him. He is true to you, I am sure."
                    "True to me, Madge! How can he be true to me if she coaxes him to
                        woo her and if he puts his arm—I am losing him; I know it.
                        I—I—O God, Madge, I am smothering; I am strangling! Holy
                        Virgin! I believe I am about to die." She threw herself upon the
                        bed by Madge's side, clutching her throat and breast, and her grand
                        woman's form tossed and struggled as if she were in
                        convulsions.
                    "Holy mother!" she cried, "take this frightful
                        agony from my breast. Snatch this terrible love from my heart. God! If you
                        have pity, give it now. Help me! Help me! Ah, how deeply I love. I never
                        loved him so much as I do at this awful moment. Save me from doing that
                        which is in my heart. If I could have him for only one little portion of a
                        minute. But that is denied me whose right it is, and is given to her who has
                             no right. Ah, God is not just. If he were
                        he would strike her dead. I hate her and I hate—hate
                        him."
                    She arose to a sitting posture on the edge of the bed and held out her arms
                        toward Madge.
                    "Madge," she continued, frenzied by the thought,
                        "his arm was around her waist. That was early in the evening. Holy
                        Virgin! What may be happening now?"
                    Dorothy sprang from the bed and staggered about the room with her hands upon
                        her throbbing temples.
                    "I cannot bear this agony. God give me strength." Soon she
                        began to gasp for breath. "I can—see—them
                        now—together, together. I hate her; I hate him. My love has turned
                        bitter. What can I do? What can I do? I will do it. I will. I will disturb
                        their sweet rest. If I cannot have him, she shall not. I'll tell
                        the queen, I'll tell the queen."
                    Dorothy acted on her resolution the moment it was taken, and at once began to
                        unbolt the door.
                    "Stay, Dorothy, stay!" cried Madge. "Think on what
                        you are about to do. It will cost John his life. Come to me for one moment,
                        Dorothy, I pray you." Madge arose from the bed and began groping
                        her way toward Dorothy, who was unbolting the door.
                    Madge could have calmed the tempest-tossed sea as easily as she could have
                        induced Dorothy to pause in her mad frenzy. Jennie Faxton, almost paralyzed
                        by fear of the storm she had raised, stood in the corner of the room
                        trembling and speechless. Dorothy was out of the room before poor blind
                        Madge could reach her. The frenzied girl was dressed only in her night robes
                        and her glorious hair hung dishevelled down to her waist. She ran through
                        the rooms of Lady Crawford and those occupied by her father and the
                        retainers. Then she sped down the long gallery and up the steps to
                        Elizabeth's apartment.
                    She knocked violently at the queen's door.
                    
                    "Who comes?" demanded one of her Majesty's
                        ladies.
                    "I, Dorothy," was the response. "I wish to speak
                        to her Majesty at once upon a matter of great importance to
                        her."
                    Elizabeth ordered her ladies to admit Dorothy, and the girl ran to the queen,
                        who had half arisen in her bed.
                    "You must have affairs of great moment, indeed," cried
                        Elizabeth, testily, "if they induce you to disturb me in this
                        manner."
                    "Of great moment, indeed, your Majesty," replied Dorothy,
                        endeavoring to be calm, "of moment to you and to me. Mary Stuart is
                        in England at this instant trying to steal your crown and my lover. She is
                        now sleeping within five leagues of this place. God only knows what she is
                        doing. Let us waste no time, your Majesty."
                    The girl was growing wilder every second.
                    "Let us go—you and I—and seize this wanton
                        creature. You, to save your crown; I to save my lover and—my
                        life."
                    "Where is she?" demanded Elizabeth, sharply.
                        "Cease prattling about your lover. She would steal both my lover
                        and my crown if she could. Where is she?"
                    "She is at Rutland Castle, your Majesty," answered
                        Dorothy.
                    "Ah, the Duke of Rutland and his son John," said Elizabeth.
                        "I have been warned of them. Send for my Lord Cecil and Sir William
                        St. Loe."
                    Sir William was in command of the yeoman guards.
                    "Is Sir John Manners your lover?" asked Elizabeth, turning
                        to Dorothy.
                    "Yes," answered the girl.
                    "You may soon seek another," replied the queen,
                        significantly.
                    Her Majesty's words seemed to awaken Dorothy from her stupor of
                        frenzy, and she foresaw the result of her act. Then came upon her a reaction
                        worse than death.
                    
                    "You may depart," said the queen to Dorothy, and the girl
                        went back to her room hardly conscious that she was moving.
                    At times we cannot help feeling that love came to the human breast through a
                        drop of venom shot from the serpent's tongue into the heart of Eve.
                        Again we believe it to be a spark from God's own soul. Who will
                        solve me this riddle?
                    Soon the hard, cold ringing of arms, and the tramp of mailed feet resounded
                        through Haddon Hall, and the doomlike din reached Dorothy's room in
                        the tones of a clanging knell. There seemed to be a frightful rhythm in the
                        chaos of sounds which repeated over and over again the words: "John
                        will die, John will die," though the full import of her act and its
                        results did nor for a little time entirely penetrate her consciousness. She
                        remembered the queen's words, "You may soon seek
                        another." Elizabeth plainly meant that John was a traitor, and that
                        John would die for his treason. The clanking words, "John will die,
                        John will die," bore upon the girl's ears in ever
                        increasing volume until the agony she suffered deadened her power to think.
                        She wandered aimlessly about the room, trying to collect her senses, but her
                        mind was a blank. After a few minutes she ran back to the queen, having an
                        undefined purpose of doing something to avert the consequences of her mad
                        act. She at first thought to tell the queen that the information she had
                        given concerning Mary Stuart's presence in Rutland was false, but
                        she well knew that a lie seldom succeeds; and in this case, even through her
                        clouded mentality, she could see that a lie would surely fail. She
                        determined to beg the queen to spare John's life. She did not know
                        exactly what she would do, but she hoped by the time she should reach the
                        queen's room to hit upon some plan that would save him. When she
                        knocked at Elizabeth's door it was locked against her. Her Majesty
                             was in consultation with Cecil, Sir
                        William St. Loe, and a few other gentlemen, among whom was Sir George
                        Vernon.
                    Dorothy well knew there was no help for John if her father were of the
                        queen's council. She insisted upon seeing the queen, but was rudely
                        repulsed. By the time she again reached her room full consciousness had
                        returned, and agony such as she had never before dreamed of over-whelmed her
                        soul. Many of us have felt the same sort of pain when awakened suddenly to
                        the fact that words we have spoken easily may not, by our utmost efforts, be
                        recalled, though we would gladly give our life itself to have them back. If
                        suffering can atone for sin, Dorothy bought her indulgence within one hour
                        after sinning. But suffering cannot atone for sin; it is only a part of
                        it—the result.
                    "Arise, Madge, and dress," said Dorothy, gently.
                        "I have made a terrible mistake. I have committed a frightful
                        crime. I have betrayed John to death. Ah, help me, Madge, if you can. Pray
                        God to help me. He will listen to you. I fear to pray to Him. He would turn
                        my prayers to curses. I am lost." She fell for a moment upon the
                        bed and placed her head on Madge's breast murmuring, "If I
                        could but die."
                    "All may turn out better than it now appears," said Madge.
                        "Quiet yourself and let us consider what may be done to arrest the
                        evil of your—your act."
                    "Nothing can be done, nothing," wailed Dorothy, as she
                        arose from the bed and began to dress. "Please arise, Madge, and
                        dress yourself. Here are your garments and your gown."
                    They hastily dressed without speaking, and Dorothy began again to pace the
                        floor.
                    "He will die hating me," said Dorothy." If he
                        could live I willingly would give him to the—the Scottish  woman. Then I could die and my suffering
                        would cease. I must have been mad when I went to the queen. He trusted me
                        with his honor and his life, and I, traitress that I am, have betrayed both.
                        Ah, well, when he dies I also shall die. There is comfort at least in that
                        thought. How helpless I am."
                    She could not weep. It seemed as if there were not a tear in her. All was
                        hard, dry, burning agony. She again fell upon the bed and moaned piteously
                        for a little time, wringing her hands and uttering frantic ejaculatory
                        prayers for help.
                    "My mind seems to have forsaken me," she said hoarsely to
                        Madge. "I cannot think. What noise is that?"
                    She paused and listened for a moment. Then she went to the north window and
                        opened the casement.
                    "The yeoman guards from Bakewell are coming," she said.
                        "I recognize them by the light of their flambeaux. They are
                        entering the gate at the dove-cote."
                    A part of the queen's guard had been quartered in the village of
                        Bakewell.
                    Dorothy stood at the window for a moment and said: "The other guards
                        are here under our window and are ready to march to Rutland. There is Lord
                        Cecil, and Sir William St. Loe, and Malcolm, and there is my father. Now
                        they are off to meet the other yeomen at the dove-cote. The stable boys are
                        lighting their torches and flambeaux. They are going to murder John, and I
                        have sent them."
                    Dorothy covered her face with her hands and slowly walked to and fro across
                        the room.
                    "Call Malcolm," said Madge. "Perhaps he can help
                        us. Lead me to the window, Dorothy, and I will call him."
                    Dorothy led Madge to the window, and above the din of arms I heard her soft
                        voice calling, "Malcolm, Malcolm."
                    
                    The order to march had been given before Madge called, but I sought Sir
                        William and told him I would return to the Hall to get another sword and
                        would soon overtake him on the road to Rutland.
                    I then hastened to Dorothy's room. I was ignorant of the means
                        whereby Elizabeth had learned of Mary's presence at Rutland. The
                        queen had told no one how the information reached her. The fact that Mary
                        was in England was all sufficient for Cecil, and he proceeded to execute the
                        order Elizabeth had given for Mary's arrest, without asking or
                        desiring any explanation. I, of course, was in great distress for
                        John's sake, since I knew that he would be attainted of treason. I
                        had sought in vain some plan whereby I might help him, but found none. I,
                        myself, being a Scottish refugee, occupied no safe position, and my
                        slightest act toward helping John or Mary would be construed against me.
                    When I entered Dorothy's room, she ran to me and said: "Can
                        you help me, Malcolm? Can you help me save him from this terrible evil which
                        I have brought upon him?"
                    "How did you bring the evil upon him?" I asked, in
                        astonishment. "It was not your fault that he brought Mary Stuart
                        to—"
                    "No, no," she answered; "but I told the queen she
                        was at Rutland."
                    "You told the queen?" I exclaimed, unwilling to believe my
                        ears. "You told—How—why—why did you tell
                        her?"
                    "I do not know why I told her," she replied. "I
                        was mad with—with jealousy. You warned me against it, but I did not
                        heed you. Jennie Faxton told me that she saw John and—but all that
                        does not matter now. I will tell you hereafter if I live. What we must now
                        do is to save him—to save him if we can. Try to devise some plan.
                        Think—think, Malcolm."
                    
                    My first thought was to ride to Rutland Castle and give the alarm. Sir George
                        would lead the yeomen thither by the shortest route—the road by way
                        of Rowsley. There was another route leading up the Lathkil through the dale,
                        and thence by a road turning southward to Rutland. That road was longer by a
                        league than the one Sir George would take, but I could put my horse to his
                        greatest speed, and I might be able to reach the castle in time to enable
                        John and Mary to escape. I considered the question a moment. My own life
                        certainly would pay the forfeit in case of failure; but my love for John
                        and, I confess it with shame, the memory of my old tenderness for Mary
                        impelled me to take the risk. I explained the plan upon which I was
                        thinking, and told them of my determination. When I did so, Madge grasped me
                        by the arm to detain me, and Dorothy fell upon her knees and kissed my
                        hand.
                    I said, "I must start at once; for, ride as I may, I fear the yeomen
                        will reach Rutland gates before I can get there."
                    "But if the guards should be at the gates when you arrive, or if you
                        should be missed by Cecil, you, a Scottish refugee and a friend of Queen
                        Mary, would be suspected of treason, and you would lose your life,"
                        said Madge, who was filled with alarm for my sake.
                    "That is true," I replied; "but I can think of no
                        other way whereby John can possibly be saved."
                    Dorothy stood for a moment in deep thought, and said:—
                    "I will ride to Rutland by way of Lathkil Dale—I will ride
                        in place of you, Malcolm. It is my duty and my privilege to do this if I
                        can."
                    I saw the truth of her words, and felt that since Dorothy had wrought the
                        evil, it was clearly her duty to remedy it if she could. If she should fail,
                        no evil consequences would fall upon her. If I should fail, it would cost me
                        my  life; and while I desired to save John,
                        still I wished to save myself. Though my conduct may not have been
                        chivalric, still I was willing that Dorothy should go in my place, and I
                        told her so. I offered to ride with her as far as a certain cross-road a
                        league distant from Rutland Castle. There I would leave her, and go across
                        the country to meet the yeomen on the road they had taken. I could join them
                        before they reached Rutland, and my absence during the earlier portion of
                        the march would not be remarked, or if noticed it could easily be
                        explained.
                    This plan was agreed upon, and after the guards had passed out at Dove-cote
                        Gate and were well down toward Rowsley, I rode out from the Hall, and waited
                        for Dorothy at an appointed spot near Overhaddon.
                    Immediately after my departure Dolcy was saddled, and soon Dorothy rode
                        furiously up to me. Away we sped, Dorothy and I, by Yulegrave church, down
                        into the dale, and up the river. Never shall I forget that mad ride. Heavy
                        rains had recently fallen, and the road in places was almost impassable. The
                        rivers were in flood, but when Dorothy and I reached the ford, the girl did
                        not stop to consider the danger ahead of her. I heard her whisper,
                        "On, Dolcy, on," and I heard the sharp
                        "whisp" of the whip as she struck the trembling, fearful
                        mare, and urged her into the dark flood. Dolcy hesitated, but Dorothy struck
                        her again and again with the whip and softly cried, "On, Dolcy,
                        on." Then mare and rider plunged into the swollen river, and I, of
                        course, followed them. The water was so deep that our horses were compelled
                        to swim, and when we reached the opposite side of the river we had drifted
                        with the current a distance of at least three hundred yards below the road.
                        We climbed the cliff by a sheep path. How Dorothy did it I do not know; and
                        how I succeeded in following her I know even less. When we reached the top
                        of the cliff, Dorothy started off at full 
                        gallop, leading the way, and again I followed. The sheep path leading up the
                        river to the road followed close the edge of the cliff, where a false step
                        by the horse would mean death to both horse and rider. But Dorothy feared
                        not, or knew not, the danger, and I caught her ever whispered
                        cry,—"On, Dolcy, on; on, Dolcy, on." Ashamed to
                        fall behind, yet fearing to ride at such a pace on such a path, I urged my
                        horse forward. He was a fine, strong, mettlesome brute, and I succeeded in
                        keeping the girl's dim form in sight. The moon, which was rapidly
                        sinking westward, still gave us light through rifts in the black bank of
                        floating clouds, else that ride over the sheep path by the cliff would have
                        been our last journey in the flesh.
                    Soon we reached the main road turning southward. It was a series of rough
                        rocks and mudholes, and Dorothy and Dolcy shot forward upon it with the
                        speed of the tempest, to undo, if possible, the evil which a dozen words,
                        untimely spoken, had wrought. I urged my horse until his head was close by
                        Dolcy's tail, and ever and anon could I hear the whispered
                        cry,—" On, Dolcy, on; on, Dolcy, sweet Dolcy, good Dolcy;
                        on, my pet, on."
                    No word was spoken between Dorothy and me; but I could hear Dolcy panting
                        with her mighty effort, and amid the noise of splashing water and the thud,
                        thud, thud of our horses' hoofs came always back to me from
                        Dorothy's lips the sad, sad cry, full of agony and
                        longing,—"On, Dolcy, on; on Dolcy, on."
                    The road we took led us over steep hills and down through dark,
                        shadow-crowded ravines; but up hill, down hill, and on the level the
                        terrible girl before me plunged forward with unabated headlong fury until I
                        thought surely the flesh of horse, man, and woman could endure the strain
                        not one moment longer. But the horses, the woman, and—though I say
                        it who should not—the man were of God's best handiwork,
                        and the cords of our lives did not  snap. One
                        thought, and only one, held possession of the girl, and the matter of her
                        own life or death had no place in her mind.
                    When we reached the cross-road where I was to leave her, we halted while I
                        instructed Dorothy concerning the road she should follow from that point to
                        Rutland, and directed her how to proceed when she should arrive at the
                        castle gate. She eagerly listened for a moment or two, then grew impatient,
                        and told me to hasten in my speech, since there was no time to lose. Then
                        she fearlessly dashed away alone into the black night; and as I watched her
                        fair form fade into the shadows, the haunting cry came faintly back to
                        me,—"On, Dolcy, on; on, Dolcy on," and I was sick
                        at heart. I was loath to leave her thus in the inky gloom. The moon had sunk
                        for the night, and the clouds had banked up without a rift against the
                        hidden stars; but I could give her no further help, and my life would pay
                        the forfeit should I accompany her. She had brought the evil upon herself.
                        She was the iron, the seed, the cloud, and the rain. She was fulfilling her
                        destiny. She was doing that which she must do: nothing more, nothing less.
                        She was filling her little niche in the universal moment. She was a part of
                        the infinite kaleidoscope—a fate-charged, fate-moved, fragile piece
                        of glass which might be crushed to atoms in the twinkling of an eye, in the
                        sounding of a trump.
                    After leaving Dorothy I rode across the country and soon overtook the yeoman
                        guard whom I joined unobserved. Then I marched with them, all too rapidly to
                        suit me, to Rutland. The little army had travelled with greater speed than I
                        had expected, and I soon began to fear that Dorothy would not reach Rutland
                        Castle in time to enable its inmates to escape.
                    Within half an hour from the time I joined the yeomen we saw the dim outlines
                        of the castle, and Sir William  St. Loe gave
                        the command to hurry forward. Cecil, Sir William, Sir George, and myself
                        rode in advance of the column. As we approached the castle by the road
                        leading directly to the gate from the north, I saw for a moment upon the top
                        of the hill west of the castle gate the forms of Dorothy and Dolcy in dim
                        silhouette against the sky. Then I saw them plunge madly down the hill
                        toward the gate. I fancied I could hear the girl whispering in frenzied
                        hoarseness,—"On, Dolcy, on," and I thought I
                        could catch the panting of the mare. At the foot of the hill, less than one
                        hundred yards from the gate, poor Dolcy, unable to take another step,
                        dropped to the ground. Dolcy had gone on to her death. She had filled her little niche in the universe and had died at her post.
                        Dorothy plunged forward over the mare's head, and a cry of alarm
                        came from my lips despite me. I was sure the girl had been killed. She,
                        however, instantly sprang to her feet. Her hair was flying behind her and
                        she ran toward the gate crying: "John, John, fly for your
                        life!" And then she fell prone upon the ground and did not
                        rise.
                    We had all seen the mare fall, and had seen the girl run forward toward the
                        gates and fall before reaching them. Cecil and Sir William rode to the spot
                        where Dorothy lay, and dismounted.
                    In a moment Sir William called to Sir George:—
                    "The lady is your daughter, Mistress Dorothy."
                    "What in hell's name brings her here?" cried Sir
                        George, hurriedly riding forward, "and how came she?"
                    I followed speedily, and the piteous sight filled my eyes with tears. I
                        cannot describe it adequately to you, though I shall see it vividly to the
                        end of my days. Dorothy had received a slight wound upon the temple, and
                        blood was trickling down her face upon her neck and ruff. Her hair had
                        fallen from its fastenings. She had lost her hat, and her gown was torn in
                        shreds and covered with mud.
                    
                    I lifted the half-conscious girl to her feet and supported her; then with my
                        kerchief I bound up the wound upon her temple.
                    "Poor Dolcy," she said, almost incoherently, "I
                        have killed her and I have failed—I have failed. Now I am ready to
                        die. Would that I had died with Dolcy. Let me lie down here,
                        Malcolm,—let me lie down."
                    I still held her in my arms and supported her half-fainting form.
                    "Why are you here?" demanded Sir George.
                    "To die," responded Dorothy.
                    "To die? Damned nonsense!" returned her father.
                        "How came you here, you fool?"
                    "On Dolcy. She is dead," returned Dorothy.
                    "Were you not at Haddon when we left there?" asked her
                        father.
                    "Yes," she replied.
                    "Did you pass us on the road?" he asked.
                    "No."
                    "How came you here?" Sir George insisted.
                    "Oh, I flew hither. I am a witch. Don't question me,
                        father. I am in no temper to listen to you. I warn you once and for all,
                        keep away from me; beware of me. I have a dagger in my bosom. Go and do the
                        work you came to do; but remember this, father, if harm comes to him I will
                        take my own life, and my blood shall be upon your soul."
                    "My God, Malcolm, what does she mean?" asked Sir George,
                        touched with fear by the strength of his daughter's threat.
                        "Has she lost her wits?"
                    "No," the girl quickly responded, "I have only
                        just found them."
                    Sir George continued to question Dorothy, but he received no further response
                        from her. She simply held up the palm of her hand warningly toward him, and
                        the gesture  was an eloquent as an oration.
                        She leaned against me, and covered her face with her hands, while her form
                        shook and trembled as if with a palsy.
                    Cecil and Sir William St. Loe then went toward the gate, and Sir George said
                        to me:—
                    "I must go with them. You remain with Doll, and see that she is
                        taken home. Procure a horse for her. If she is unable to ride, make a
                        litter, or perhaps there is a coach in the castle; if so, take possession of
                        it. Take her home by some means when we return. What, think you, could have
                        brought her here?"
                    I evaded the question by replying, "I will probably be able to get a
                        coach in the castle, Sir George. Leave Dorothy with me."
                    Soon, by the command of Sir William, the yeomen rode to the right and to the
                        left for the purpose of surrounding the castle, and then I heard Cecil at
                        the gates demanding:—
                    "Open in the name of the queen."
                    "Let us go to the gates," said Dorothy, "that we
                        may hear what they say and see what they do. Will they kill him here, think
                        you?" she asked, looking wildly into my face.
                    The flambeaux on the castle gate and those which the link-boys had brought
                        with them from Haddon were lighted, and the scene in front of the gate was
                        all aglow.
                    "No, no, my sweet one," I answered, "perhaps they
                        will not kill him at all. Certainly they will not kill him now. They must
                        try him first."
                    I tried to dissuade her from going to the gates, but she insisted, and I
                        helped her to walk forward.
                    When Dorothy and I reached the gates, we found that Cecil and Lord Rutland
                        were holding a consultation through the parley-window. The portcullis was
                        still down,  and the gates were closed; but
                        soon the portcullis was raised, a postern was opened from within, and Sir
                        William entered the castle with two score of the yeomen guards.
                    Sir George approached and again plied Dorothy with questions, but she would
                        not speak. One would have thought from her attitude that she was deaf and
                        dumb. She seemed unconscious of her father's presence.
                    "She has lost her mind," said Sir George, in tones of deep
                        trouble, "and I know not what to do."
                    "Leave her with me for a time, cousin. I am sure she will be better
                        if we do not question her now."
                    Then Dorothy seemed to awaken. "Malcolm is right, father. Leave me
                        for a time, I pray you."
                    Sir George left us, and waited with a party of yeomen a short distance from
                        the gate for the return of Sir William with his prisoners.
                    Dorothy and I sat upon a stone bench, near the postern through which Sir
                        William and the guardsmen had entered, but neither of us spoke.
                    After a long, weary time of waiting Sir William came out of the castle
                        through the postern, and with him came Mary Stuart. My heart jumped when I
                        saw her in the glare of the flambeaux, and the spirit of my dead love for
                        her came begging admission to my heart. I cannot describe my sensations when
                        I beheld her, but this I knew, that my love for her was dead past
                        resurrection.
                    Following Mary came Lord Rutland, and immediately following his Lordship
                        walked John. When he stepped through the postern, Dorothy sprang to her feet
                        and ran to him with a cry, "John, John!"
                    He looked at her in surprise, and stepped toward her with evident intent to
                        embrace her. His act was probably the result of an involuntary impulse, for
                        he stopped before he reached the girl.
                    
                    Sir George had gone at Sir William's request to arrange the guards
                        for the return march.
                    Dorothy and John were standing within two yards of each other.
                    "Do not touch me," cried Dorothy, "save to strike
                        me if you will. The evil which has come upon you is of my doing. I betrayed
                        you to the queen."
                    I saw Mary turn quickly toward the girl when she uttered those words.
                    "I was insane when I did it," continued Dorothy.
                        "They will take your life, John. But when you die I also shall die.
                        It is a poor reparation, I know, but it is the only one I can
                        make."
                    "I do not understand you, Dorothy," said John.
                        "Why should you betray me?"
                    "I cannot tell you," she answered. "All I know is
                        that I did betray you and I hardly know how I did it. It all seems like a
                        dream—like a fearful monster of the night. There is no need for me
                        to explain. I betrayed you and now I suffer for it, more a thousand-fold
                        than you can possibly suffer. I offer no excuse. I have none. I simply
                        betrayed you, and ask only that I may die with you."
                    Then was manifest in John's heart the noblest quality which God has
                        given to man—charity, strengthened by reason. His face glowed with
                        a light that seemed saintlike, and a grand look of ineffable love and pity
                        came to his eyes. He seemed as if by inspiration to understand all that
                        Dorothy had felt and done, and he knew that if she had betrayed him she had
                        done it at a time when she was not responsible for her acts. He stepped
                        quickly to the girl's side, and caring naught that we all should
                        see him, caught her to his breast. He held her in his arms, and the light of
                        the flambeaux fell upon her upturned face.
                    "Dorothy," he said, "it matters not what you have
                        done; you are my only love. I ask no explanation. If  you have betrayed me to death, though I hope it will not come
                        to that evil, you did not do it because you did not love me."
                    "No, no, John, you know that," sobbed the girl.
                    "I do know it, Dorothy; I know all that I wish to know. You would
                        not intentionally bring evil upon me while you love me."
                    "Ah, that I do, John; only God knows how deeply, how desperately. My
                        love was the cause—my love was my curse—it was your
                        curse."
                    "Do not weep, Dorothy," said John, interrupting her.
                        "I would that I could take all your suffering upon myself. Do not
                        weep."
                    Dorothy buried her face upon his breast and tears came to her relief. She was
                        not alone in her weeping, for there stood I like a very woman, and by my
                        side stood rough old Sir William. Tears were coursing down the bronzed cheek
                        of the grand old warrior like drops of glistening dew upon the harrowed face
                        of a mountain rock. When I saw Sir William's tears, I could no
                        longer restrain my emotions, and I frankly tell you that I made a spectacle
                        of myself in full view of the queen's yeoman guard.
                    Sir George approached our little group, and when he saw Dorothy in
                        John's arms, he broke forth into oaths and stepped toward her
                        intending to force her away. But John held up the palm of his free hand
                        warningly toward Sir George, and drawing the girl's drooping form
                        close to his breast he spoke calmly:—
                    "Old man, if you but lay a finger on this girl, I will kill you
                        where you stand. No power on earth can save you."
                    There was a tone in John's voice that forced even Sir George to
                        pause. Then Sir George turned to me.
                    "This is the man who was in my house. He is the man who called
                        himself Thomas. Do you know him?"
                    
                    Dorothy saved me from the humiliation of an answer. She took one step from
                        John's side and held him by the hand while she spoke.
                    "Father," she said, "this man is Sir John Manners.
                        Now you may understand why he could not seek my hand openly, and you also
                        know why I could not tell you his name." She again turned to John,
                        and he put his arm about her. You can imagine much better that I can
                        describe Sir George's fury. He snatched a halberd from the hands of
                        a yeoman who was standing near by and started toward John and Dorothy.
                        Thereupon the hard old warrior, Sir William St. Loe, whose heart one would
                        surely say was the last place where sentiment could dwell, performed a
                        little act of virtue which will balance many a page on the debtor side of
                        his ledger of life. He lifted his sword and scabbard and struck Sir
                        George's outstretched hand, causing the halberd to fall to the
                        ground.
                    "Don't touch the girl," cried Sir William,
                        hoarsely.
                    "She is my daughter," retorted Sir George, who was stunned
                        mentally as well as physically by Sir William's blow.
                    "I care not whose daughter she is," returned Sir
                        William.
                    "You shall not touch her. If you make but one other attempt, I will
                        use my blade upon you."
                    Sir William and John had been warm friends at London court, and the old
                        captain of the guards quickly guessed the true situation when he saw Dorothy
                        run to John's arms.
                    "Sir, you shall answer for this," said Sir George, angrily,
                        to Sir William.
                    "With pleasure," returned Sir William. "I will
                        give you satisfaction whenever you wish it, save this present time. I am too
                        busy now."
                    Blessed old Sir William! You have been dead these many winters; and were I a
                        priest, I would say a mass for your soul gratis every day in the year.
                    
                    "Did the girl betray us?" asked Queen Mary.
                    No one answered her question. Then she turned toward Sir John and touched him
                        upon the shoulder. He turned his face toward her signifying that he was
                        listening.
                    "Who is this girl?" Mary demanded.
                    "My sweetheart, may affianced wife," John answered.
                    "She says she betrayed us," the queen responded.
                    "Did you trust her with knowledge of our presence in
                        Rutland?" Mary demanded angrily.
                    "I did," he answered.
                    "You were a fool," said Mary.
                    "I know it," responded John.
                    You certainly bear her no resentment for her treason," said
                        Mary.
                    "I certainly do not," quietly answered John. "Her
                        suffering is greater than mine. Can you not see that it is?"
                    "It is your privilege," said Mary, scornfully, "to
                        intrust your own secrets to whomsoever you may choose for your confidant,
                        and it is quite saintlike in you to forgive this person for betraying you;
                        but what think you of the hard case in which her treason and your folly have
                        placed me?"
                    "That is my greatest grief, save for Dorothy," answered
                        John, softly. Lived there over a man possessed of broader charity or deeper
                        love than John? God surely made him of gold dust, not of common clay.
                    Queen Mary stepped away from John in disgust, and when she turned she saw me
                        for the first time. She started and was about to speak, but I placed my
                        fingers warningly upon my lips and she remained silent.
                    "Where do you take us, Sir William?" asked John.
                    "To Haddon Hall. There you will await the commands of the
                        queen."
                    
                    "How came you here?" John asked gently of Dorothy.
                        "I rode Dolcy," she whispered. "She dropped dead
                        at the foot of the hill. Yonder she lies. I came up the Lathkil by the long
                        road, and I hoped that I might reach you in time to give warning. When the
                        guard left Haddon I realized the evil that would come upon you by reason of
                        my base betrayal." Here she broke down and for a moment could not
                        proceed in the narrative. She soon recovered and continued: "Then I
                        mounted Dolcy, and tried to reach here by way of the long road. Poor Dolcy
                        seemed to understand my trouble and my despair, and she brought me with all
                        the speed that a horse could make; but the road was too long and too rough;
                        and she failed, and I failed. Would that I could have died in her place. She
                        gave her life in trying to remedy my fault."
                    Dorothy again began to weep, and John tenderly whispered:—
                    "All will yet come right." Then he kissed her before us
                        all, and handed her to me saying, "Care for her, I pray you,
                        sir."
                    John spoke a few words to Sir William, and in a moment they both went back to
                        the castle.
                    In a short time the gates were opened, and the Rutland coach drawn by four
                        horses emerged from the castle grounds. Sir William then directed Mary and
                        Dorothy to enter the coach and requested me to ride with them to Haddon
                        Hall.
                    The yeoman guards were in marching order, and I took my seat in the coach.
                        The fates surely were in a humorous mood when they threw Dorothy, Queen
                        Mary, and myself together. Pause for a moment and consider the situation.
                        You know all the facts and you can analyze it as well as I. I could not help
                        laughing at the fantastic trick of destiny.
                    Soon after I entered the coach Sir William gave the  word, and the yeomen with Lord Rutland and John moved forward
                        on the road to Haddon.
                    The coach at once followed the guard and a score of yeomen followed us.
                    Queen Mary occupied the back seat of the coach, and Dorothy and I sat upon
                        the front seat facing her.
                    Dorothy was exhausted, and her head lay upon my shoulder. Now and again she
                        would softly moan and sob, but she said nothing. After a few minutes of
                        silence Queen Mary spoke:—
                    "Why did you betray me, you miserable wretch? Why did you betray
                        me?"
                    Dorothy did not answer. Mary continued:—
                    "Have I ever injured you in any manner? Have I ever harmed you by
                        thought, word, or deed?"
                    Dorothy's only answer was a sob.
                    "Perhaps you are a canting fanatic, and it may be that you hate me
                        for the sake of that which you call the love of God?"
                    "No, no, madam," I said, "that was not the
                        reason."
                    "Do you know the reason, Malcolm?" asked Mary, addressing
                        me for the first time. My name upon her lips had a strange effect on me. It
                        was like the wafting to my nostrils of a sweet forgotten odor, or the
                        falling upon my ears of a tender refrain of bygone days. Her voice in
                        uttering my name thrilled me, and I hated myself for my weakness.
                    I told Mary that I did not know Dorothy's reasons, and she
                        continued:—
                    "Malcolm, you were not a party to my betrayal for the sake of
                        revenging yourself on me?"
                    "God forbid!" I answered. "Sir John Manners will
                        assure you of my innocence. I rode with Mistress Vernon to a cross-road
                        within a league of Rutland, hoping thereby to assist her to give you and Sir
                        John the alarm."
                    
                    My admission soon brought me into trouble.
                    "I alone am to blame," said Dorothy, faintly.
                    "I can easily believe you," said Mary, sharply.
                        "Did you expect to injure me?"
                    No answer came from Dorothy.
                    "If you expect to injure me," Mary continued, "you
                        will be disappointed. I am a queen, and my Cousin Elizabeth would not dare
                        to harm me, even though she might wish to do so. We are of the same blood,
                        and she will not wish to do me injury. Your doting lover will probably lose
                        his head for bringing me to England without his queen's consent. He
                        is her subject. I am not. I wish you joy of the trouble you have brought
                        upon him and upon yourself."
                    "Upon him!" cried Dorothy.
                    "Yes, upon him," continued Mary, relishing the torture she
                        was inflicting. "You will enjoy seeing him beheaded, will you not,
                        you fool, you huzzy, you wretch? I hope his death will haunt you till the
                        end of your days."
                    Poor Dorothy, leaning against me, said faintly:—
                    "It will—it will. You—you devil."
                    The girl was almost dead from exhaustion and anguish, but she would have been
                        dead indeed had she lacked the power to strike back. I believe had it not
                        been for Dorothy's physical weakness she would have silenced Mary
                        with her hands.
                    After a little time Dorothy's heavy breathing indicated that she had
                        fallen asleep. Her head rested upon my shoulder, and the delicious perfume
                        of her hair and the sweet warm breath from her lips were almost intoxicating
                        even to me, though I was not in love with her. How great must their effect
                        have been coming upon John hot from her intense young soul!
                    As the link-boys passed the coach some and some with their flambeaux I could
                        see Dorothy's sweet pale face, 
                        almost hidden in the tangled golden red hair which fell in floods about her.
                        The perfect oval of her cheek, the long wet lashes, the arched eyebrows, the
                        low broad forehead, the straight nose, the saucy chin—all presented
                        a picture of beauty and pathos sufficient to soften a heart of stone. Mary
                        had no heart of any sort, therefore she was not moved to pity. That emotion,
                        I am sure, she never felt from the first to the last day of her life. She
                        continued to probe Dorothy's wound until I told her the girl was
                        asleep. I changed Dorothy's position and placed her head against
                        the corner cushion of the coach that she might rest more comfortably. She
                        did not awaken when I moved her. She slept and looked like a child. For a
                        little time after I had changed Dorothy's position Mary and I sat
                        in silence. She was the first to speak. She leaned forward and placing her
                        hands upon mine, whispered my name:—
                    "Malcolm!"
                    After a brief silence I said:—
                    "What would you, your Majesty?"
                    "Not 'your Majesty' "said Mary, softly,
                        "but Mary, as of old."
                    She remained for a moment with her hand upon my knee, and then
                        whispered:—
                    "Will you not sit by me, Malcolm?"
                    I believe that Mary Stuart's voice was the charm wherewith she
                        fascinated men. I resisted to my utmost strength, but that seemed to be
                        little more than utter weakness; so I took a seat by her side, and she
                        gently placed her hand in mine. The warm touch of her strong, delicate
                        fingers gave me a familiar thrill. She asked me to tell her of my wanderings
                        since I had left Scotland, and I briefly related all my adventures. I told
                        her of my home at Haddon Hall and of the welcome given me by my cousin, Sir
                        George.
                    "Malcolm, have you forgotten?" she whispered, leaning  gently against me. "Have you
                        forgotten our old-time vows and love? Have you forgotten all that passed
                        between us in the dear old château, when I gave to you my virgin love, fresh
                        from my virgin heart?" I sighed and tried to harden my heart to her
                        blandishments, for I knew she wished to use me and was tempting me to that
                        end.
                    She continued, "I was then only fourteen years old—ten
                        years ago. You said that you loved me and I believed you. You could not
                        doubt, after the proof I gave to you, that my heart was all yours. We were
                        happy, oh, so happy. Do you remember, Malcolm?"
                    She brought her face close to mine while she spoke, and pressed my hand upon
                        her breast.
                    My reason told me that it was but the song of the siren she was singing to my
                        ears. My memory told me that she had been false to me twice two score times,
                        and I knew full well she would again be false to me, or to any other man
                        whom she could use for her purposes, and that she cared not the price at
                        which she purchased him. Bear in mind, you who would blame me for my fall,
                        that this woman not only was transcendently beautiful and fatally
                        fascinating, but she was a queen and had held undisputed sway over my heart
                        for more years than I could accurately number. As I said, added to all her
                        beauty, she was a queen. If you have never known royalty, you cannot
                        understand its enthralling power.
                    "I remember it all, madam," I replied, trying to hold
                        myself away from her. "It is fresh to me as if it all had happened
                        yesterday." The queen drew my arm closely to her side and nestled
                        her cheek for an instant upon my shoulder.
                    "I remember also," I continued, "your marriage
                        with Darnley when I had your promise that you would marry me; and, shame
                        upon shame, I remember your marriage with Darnley's murderer,
                        Bothwell."
                    
                    "Cruel, cruel, Malcolm," she said. "You well know
                        the overpowering reasons of state which impelled me to sacrifice my own
                        happiness by marrying Darnley. I told you at the time that I hated the
                        marriage more than I dreaded death. But I longed to quiet the factions in
                        Scotland, and I hoped to save my poor bleeding people from the evils of war.
                        You know I hated Darnley. You know I loved you. You knew then and you know
                        now that you are the only man who has ever possessed my heart. You know that
                        my words are true. You know that you, alone, have had my love since the time
                        when I was a child."
                    "And Rizzio?" I asked.
                    "Ah, Malcolm," she answered tearfully, "I hope
                        you, of all men, do not believe that I ever gave a thought of love to
                        Rizzio. He was to me like my pet monkey or my favorite falcon. He was a
                        beautiful, gentle, harmless soul. I loved him for his music. He worshipped
                        me as did my spaniel."
                    Still I was determined that her blandishments should not move me.
                    "And Bothwell?" I asked.
                    "That is past endurance from you, Malcolm," she said,
                        beginning to weep. "You know I was brutally abducted and was forced
                        into marriage with him. He was an outlaw, an outcast. He was an uncouth
                        brute whom any woman would loathe. I was in his power, and I feigned
                        acquiescence only that I might escape and achieve vengeance upon him. Tell
                        me, Malcolm, tell me," continued Mary, placing her arms about my
                        neck and clinging to me, "tell me, you, to whom I gave my
                        maiden's love, you who have my woman's heart, tell me, do
                        you believe that I could willingly have married Bothwell, even though my
                        heart had not been filled with the image of you, who are strong, gentle, and
                        beautiful?"
                    
                    You, if you are a man, may think that in my place you would have resisted the
                        attack of this beautiful queen, but if so you think—pardon me, my
                        friend—you are a fool. Under the spell of her magic influence I
                        wavered in the conviction which had long since come upon me, that I had for
                        years been her fool and her dupe. I forgot the former lessons I had learned
                        from her perfidy. I forgot my manhood. I forgot all of good that had of late
                        grown up in me. God help me, I forgot even Madge.
                    "If I could only believe you, Mary," I answered, growing
                        insane under the influence of her fascinations, "if I could only
                        believe you."
                    "Give me your lips, Malcolm," she whispered, "give
                        me your lips.—Again, my Malcolm.—Ah, now you believe
                        me."
                    The lying logic of a wanton kiss is irresistible. I was drunk and, alas! I
                        was convinced. When I think of that time, Samson is my only
                        comfort—Samson and a few hundred million other fools, who like
                        Samson and me have been wheedled, kissed, and duped into misery and
                        ruin.
                    I said: "I do believe you, Mary. I beg you to forgive me for having
                        doubted you. You have been traduced and brutally misused."
                    "It is sweet to hear you speak those words. But it is better to
                        think that at last we have come together with nothing to part us save that I
                        am a prisoner in the hands of my vindictive, jealous cousin. I thank God
                        that my kingdom of Scotland has been taken from me. I ever hated the Scots.
                        They are an ignorant, unkempt, wry-necked, stubborn, filthy race. But, above
                        all, my crown stood between you and me. I may now be a woman, and were it
                        not for Elizabeth, you and I could yet find solace in each other for all our
                        past sufferings. Malcolm, I have a sweet thought. If I could escape to fair,
                        beautiful France, all would be happiness for us. You could claim your
                        mother's estates in the balmy south, and we might  live upon them. Help me, my Malcolm, to
                        escape, and your reward shall be greater and sweeter than man ever before
                        received from woman."
                    I struggled against her blandishments for a moment, but I was lost.
                    "You shall escape and I will go with you," said I.
                    Man needs to make but one little prayer to God, "Lead me not into
                        temptation." That prayer answered, all else of good will
                        follow.
                    The morning sun had just begun to rise over Bowling Green Hill and the
                        shadows of the night were fleeing before his lances, when our cavalcade
                        entered the grounds of Haddon at the dove-cote. If there were two suns
                        revolving about the earth, one to shine upon us by night and one by day,
                        much evil would be averted. Men do evil in the dark because others cannot
                        see them; they think evil in the dark because they cannot see
                        themselves.
                    With the first faint gray of dawn there came to me thoughts of Madge. I had
                        forgotten her, but her familiar spirit, the light, brought me back to its
                        fair mistress.
                    When our coach reached the stone bridge I looked up to the Hall and saw Madge
                        standing at the open casement of the tower window. She had been watching
                        there all night, I learned, hoping for our speedy and safe return, and had
                        been warned of our approach by the noise of the tramping guard. I drew back
                        from the coach window, feeling that I was an evil shade slinking away before
                        the spirit of light.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV
                    LIGHT
                    
                    DOROTHY had awakened while we were entering Rowsley, and I was glad that Mary
                        could not touch me again.
                    When our coach reached the stone steps of the entrance tower we found Sir
                        George, Lady Crawford, and Madge waiting to receive us. The steps and the
                        path leading to them had been carpeted with soft rugs, and Mary, although a
                        prisoner, was received with ceremonies befitting her rank. It was a proud
                        day for Sir George when the roof of his beautiful Hall sheltered the two
                        most famous queens of christendom.
                    Sir George assisted Mary from the coach most graciously, and in knightly
                        fashion led her to Lady Crawford and Madge, who were standing at the foot of
                        the tower steps. Due presentations were made, and the ladies of Haddon
                        having kissed the queen's hand, Mary went into the Hall upon the
                        arm of his Majesty, the King of the Peak, who stepped forward most
                        proudly.
                    His resentment against Dorothy was for the moment neutralized by the great
                        honor of which his house and himself were the recipients.
                    John and Lord Rutland were taken to the dungeon.
                    I assisted Dorothy from the coach and led her to Madge, who was waiting for
                        us upon the lowest of the steps leading to the entrance tower doorway.
                        Dorothy took Madge's  outstretched
                        hand; but Madge, by some strange instinct, knowing of my presence, turned
                        her face toward me. I could not lift my eyes to her face, nor could I endure
                        to remain in her presence. While we were ascending the steps she held out
                        her hand to me and said:—
                    "Is all well with you, Malcolm?" Her voice was full of
                        tender concern, and it pained me to the heart to hear her speak kindly to
                        me, who was so unworthy of her smallest thought.
                    "Yes, Lady—yes, Madge," I responded; but she knew
                        from the tones of my voice that all was not right with me.
                    "I fear, Malcolm, that you do not tell me the truth. You will come
                        to me soon?" she asked.
                    "I may not be able to go to you soon," I answered,
                        "but I will do so at the first opportunity."
                    The torture of her kindness was almost unbearable to me. One touch of her
                        hand, one tone of her rare voice, had made me loathe myself. The powers of
                        evil cannot stand for one moment in a fair conflict with the powers of good.
                        I felt that I, alone, was to blame for my treason to Madge; but despite my
                        effort at self-condemnation there was an under-consciousness that Mary
                        Stuart was to blame, and I hated her accordingly. Although Madge's
                        presence hurt me, it was not because I wished to conceal my conduct from
                        her. I knew that I could be happy again only after I had confessed to her
                        and had received forgiveness.
                    Madge, who was blind of sight, led Dorothy, who was piteously blind of soul,
                        and the two girls went to their apartments.
                    Curiosity is not foreign even to the royal female breast, and while Mary
                        Stuart was entering Haddon Hall, I saw the luminous head of the Virgin Queen
                        peeked out at a casement on the second floor watching her rival with all  the curiosity of a Dutch woman sitting by her
                        window mirror.
                    I went to my room in Eagle Tower, fell upon my bed, and abandoned myself to
                        an anguish of soul which was almost luxurious. I shall not tease you with
                        the details of my mental and moral processes. I hung in the balance a long
                        time undetermined what course I should pursue. The difference between the
                        influence of Mary and the effect wrought by Madge was the difference between
                        the intoxication and the exhilaration of wine. Following the intoxication of
                        Mary's presence ever came a torturing reaction, while the
                        exhilarating influence of Madge gave health and strength. I chose the
                        latter. I have always been glad I reached that determination without the aid
                        of any impulse outside of myself; for events soon happened which again drove
                        all faith in Mary from my heart forever. Those events would have forced me
                        to abandon my trust in her; but mind you, I took my good resolve from
                        inclination rather than necessity before I learned of Mary's
                        perfidy.
                    The events of the night had exhausted Dorothy, and she was confined to her
                        bed by illness for the first time in her life. She believed that she was
                        dying, and she did not want to live. I did not go to her apartments. Madge
                        remained withher, and I, coward-like, feared to face the girl to whom I had
                        been untrue.
                    Dorothy's one and only desire, of course, was to see John, but that
                        desire for a time seemed impossible of accomplishment.
                    Elizabeth, Cecil, Leicester, and Sir William St. Loe were in secret
                        consultation many times during three or four days and nights. Occasionally
                        Sir George was called into their councils, and that flattering attention so
                        wrought upon the old man's pride that he was a slave to the
                        queen's slightest wish, and was more tyrannical  and dictatorial than ever before to all the
                        rest of mankind. There were, however, two persons besides the queen before
                        whom Sir George was gracious: one of these was Mary Stuart, whose powers of
                        fascination had been brought to bear upon the King of the Peak most
                        effectively. The other was Leicester, to whom, as my cousin expressed it, he
                        hoped to dispose of that troublesome and disturbing body—Dorothy.
                        These influences, together with the fact that his enemies of Rutland were in
                        the Haddon dungeon, had given Sir George a spleen-vent, and Dorothy, even in
                        the face of her father's discovery that Manners was her mysterious
                        lover, had for once a respite from Sir George's just and mighty
                        wrath.
                    The purpose of Elizabeth's many councils of war was to devise some
                        means of obtaining from John and his father, information concerning the plot
                        which had resulted in bringing Mary Stuart into England. The ultimate
                        purpose of Mary's visit, Elizabeth's counsellors firmly
                        believed to be the dethronement of the English queen and the enthronement of
                        her Scottish cousin. Elizabeth, in her heart, felt confident that John and
                        his father were not parties to the treasonable plot, although she had been
                        warned against each of them. Cecil and Sir William St. Loe also secretly
                        held to that opinion, though neither of them expressed it. Elizabeth was
                        conscious of having given to John while at London court an intimation that
                        she would be willing that Mary should visit England. Of such intimation
                        Cecil and Sir William had no knowledge, though they, together with many
                        persons of the court, believed that Elizabeth was not entirely averse to
                        Mary's presence.
                    Lord Rutland and John were questioned by Cecil in the hope of obtaining some
                        hints which might lead to the detection of those concerned in the chief
                        plot, provided such plot existed. But Lord Rutland knew nothing of the
                        affair  except that John had brought the
                        Scottish queen from Scotland, and John persisted in the statement that he
                        had no confederate and that he knew nothing of any plot to place Mary upon
                        the English throne.
                    John said: "I received from Queen Mary's friends in
                        Scotland letters asking me to meet her on the border, and requesting me to
                        conduct her to my father's castle. Those letters mentioned no
                        Englishman but myself, and they stated that Queen Mary's flight to
                        England was to be undertaken with the tacit consent of our gracious queen.
                        That fact, the letters told me, our queen wished should not be known. There
                        were reasons of state, the letters said, which made it impolitic for our
                        queen openly to invite Queen Mary to seek sanctuary in England. I received
                        those letters before I left Westminster. Upon the day when I received them,
                        I heard our gracious queen say that she would gladly invite Queen Mary to
                        England, were it not for the fact that such an invitation would cause
                        trouble between her and the regent, Murray. Her Majesty at the same time
                        intimated that she would be glad if Mary Stuart should come to England
                        uninvited." John turned to Elizabeth, "I beg your Majesty,
                        in justice, to ratify my words."
                    Elizabeth hesitated for a moment after John's appeal; but her love
                        of justice came to her rescue and she hung her head as she said,
                        "You are right, Sir John." Then she looked her counsellors
                        in the face and said, "I well remember that I so expressed
                        myself."
                    "In truth," said John, "I having only an hour
                        before received the letter from Scotland, believed that your
                        Majesty's words were meant for my ear. I felt that your Majesty
                        knew of the letters, and I thought that I should be carrying out your royal
                        wishes should I bring Queen Mary into England without your
                        knowledge."
                    The queen responded: "I then felt that I wished Queen  Mary to seek refuge in my kingdom, but so
                        many untoward events have transpired since I spoke on the subject at
                        Westminster that I have good cause to change my mind, though I easily
                        understand how you might have been misled by my words."
                    "I am sure," replied John, "that your Majesty has
                        had good cause to change your mind; but I protest in all sincerity that I
                        considered the Scottish letters to be a command from my queen."
                    Elizabeth was a strange combination of paradoxes. No one could be truer than
                        she to a fixed determination once taken. No one could be swayed by doubt so
                        easily as she to change her mind sixty times in the space of a minute.
                        During one moment she was minded to liberate John and Lord Rutland; in the
                        next she determined to hold them in prison, hoping to learn from them some
                        substantial fact concerning the plot which, since Mary's arrival in
                        England, had become a nightmare to her. But, with all her vagaries the
                        Virgin Queen surely loved justice. That quality, alone, makes a sovereign
                        great. Elizabeth, like her mother, Anne Boleyn, had great faith in her
                        personal beauty; like her father, she had unbounded confidence in her powers
                        of mind. She took great pride in the ease with which she controlled persons.
                        She believed that no one was so adroit as Elizabeth Tudor in extracting
                        secrets from others, and in unravelling mysterious situations, nor so
                        cunning in hunting out plots and in running down plotters. In all such
                        matters she delighted to act secretly and alone.
                    During the numerous councils held at Haddon, Elizabeth allowed Cecil to
                        question John to his heart's content; but while she listened she
                        formulated a plan of her own which she was sure would be effective in
                        extracting all the truth from John, if all the truth had not already been
                        extracted.
                    Elizabeth kept her cherished plan to herself. It was this:—
                    
                    She would visit Dorothy, whom she knew to be ill, and would by her subtle art
                        steal from John's sweetheart all that the girl knew of the case. If
                        John had told Dorothy part of the affair concerning Mary Stuart, he had
                        probably told her all, and Elizabeth felt confident that she could easily
                        pump the girl dry. She did not know Dorothy.
                    Accordingly our queen, Elizabeth, the adroit, went to Dorothy's room
                        under the pretence of paying the girl a gracious visit. Dorothy wished to
                        arise and receive her royal guest, but Elizabeth said gently:—
                    "Do not arise, Dorothy; rest quietly, and I will sit here beside you
                        on the bed. I have come to tell you that you must recover your health at
                        once. We miss you greatly in the Hall."
                    No one could be more gracious than Elizabeth when the humor was upon her;
                        though, in truth, the humor was often lacking.
                    "Let us send all save you and me from the room," said the
                        queen, "that we may have a quiet little chat
                        together."
                    All who were in the room save Dorothy and Elizabeth of course departed at
                        once.
                    When the door was closed, the queen said: "I wish to thank you for
                        telling me of the presence of her Scottish Majesty at Rutland. You know
                        there is a plot on foot to steal my throne from me."
                    "God forbid that there should be such a plot," replied
                        Dorothy, resting upon her elbow in the bed.
                    "I fear it is only too true that there is such a plot,"
                        returned Elizabeth," and I owe you a great debt of gratitude for
                        warning me of the Scottish queen's presence in my
                        kingdom."
                    "I hope the danger will be averted from your Majesty," said
                        Dorothy; "but that which I did will cause my death—it will
                        kill me. No human being ever before has lived 
                        through the agony I have suffered since that terrible night. I was a
                        traitress. I betrayed the man who is dearer to me than my immortal soul. He
                        says that he forgives me, but your Majesty knows that my fault is beyond
                        forgiveness."
                    "Sir John is a noble gentleman, child," said the queen.
                    "I hope that he is loyal to me, but I fear—I
                        fear."
                    "Do not doubt, do not fear, my queen," returned Dorothy,
                        eagerly; "there is nothing false in him."
                    "Do you love him deeply, little one?" asked the queen.
                    "No words can tell you my love for him," answered the girl.
                        "I feel shame to say that he has taken even the holy God's
                        place in my heart. Perhaps it is for that sin that God now punishes
                        me."
                    "Fear not on that score, Dorothy," replied the queen.
                    "God will not punish you for feeling the love which He Himself has
                        put into your heart. I would willingly give my crown could I feel such love
                        for a worthy man who would in return love me for myself. But I cannot feel,
                        nor can I have faith. Self-interest, which is so dominant in all men,
                        frightens me, and I doubt their vows."
                    "Surely, any man would love you for your own sake," said
                        Dorothy, tenderly.
                    "It may be that you speak truly, child; but I cannot know when
                        men's vows are true nor when they are false. The real trouble is
                        within myself. If I could but feel truly, I could interpret
                        truthfully."
                    "Ah, your Majesty," interrupted Dorothy, "you do
                        not know the thing for which you are wishing; it is a torture worse than
                        death; it is an ecstasy sweeter than heaven. It is killing me. I pity you,
                        though you are a queen, if you have never felt it."
                    "Would you do anything I might ask of you, if you could thereby save
                        Sir John's life?" asked the queen.
                    "Ah, I would gladly give my soul to save him," responded
                             Dorothy, with tears in her eyes and
                        eagerness in her voice. "Oh, my queen, do not lead me to hope, and
                        then plunge me again into despair. Give me no encouragement unless you mean
                        to free him. As for my part, take my life and spare John's. Kill me
                        by torture, burn me at the stake, stretch me upon the rack till my joints
                        are severed and my flesh is torn asunder. Let me die by inches, my queen;
                        but spare him, oh, spare him, and do with me as you will. Ask from me what
                        you wish. Gladly will I do all that you may demand; gladly will I welcome
                        death and call it sweet, if I can thereby save him. The faint hope your
                        Majesty's words hold out makes me strong again. Come, come, take my
                        life; take all that I can give. Give me him."
                    "Do you believe that I am an ogress thirsting for blood, Dorothy,
                        that you offer me your life for his? You can purchase Sir John's
                        life at a much smaller cost." Dorothy rose to the queen with a cry,
                        and put her arms about her neck. "You may purchase his
                        freedom," continued the queen, "and you may serve your
                        loving queen at one and the same time, if you wish to do so."
                    Dorothy had sunk back into the bed, and Elizabeth was sitting close by her
                        side; but when the queen spoke she turned her head on the pillow and kissed
                        the royal hand which was resting upon the coverlid.
                    "Ah, you are so good, so true, and so beautiful," said
                        Dorothy.
                    Her familiarity toward the queen was sweet to the woman, to whom it was
                        new.
                    Dorothy did not thank the queen for her graciousness. She did not reply
                        directly to her offer. She simply said:—
                    "John has told me many times that he was first attracted to me
                        because I resembled you."
                    The girl had ample faith in her own beauty, and knew full
                            wel-e subtle flattery which lay in her words.
                        "He  said," she continued,
                        "that my hair in some faint degree resembled yours, but he said it
                        was not of so beautiful a hue. I have loved my hair ever since the day he
                        told me that it resembled your Majesty's." The girl leaned
                        forward toward the queen and gently kissed the royal locks. They no more
                        resembled Dorothy's hair than brick dust resembles the sheen of
                        gold.
                    The queen glanced at the reflection of her hair in the mirror and it flatly
                        contradicted Dorothy. But the girl's words were backed by
                        Elizabeth's vanity, and the adroit flattery went home.
                    "Ah, my child," exclaimed her Majesty softly, as she leaned
                        forward and kissed Dorothy's fair cheek.
                    Dorothy wept gently for a moment and familiarly rested her face upon the
                        queen's breast. Then she entwined her white arms about
                        Elizabeth's neck and turned her glorious eyes up to the
                        queen's face that her Majesty might behold their wondrous beauty
                        and feel the flattery of the words she was about to utter.
                    "He said also," continued Dorothy, "that my eyes
                        in some slight degree resembled your Majesty's, but he qualified
                        his compliment by telling me—he did not exactly tell me that my
                        eyes were not so large and brilliant as your Majesty's, for he was
                        making love to me, and of course he would not have dared to say that my eyes
                        were not the most perfect on earth; but he did say that—at least I
                        know that he meant—that my eyes, while they resembled yours, were
                        hardly so glorious, and—and I am very jealous of your Majesty. John
                        will be leaving me to worship at your feet."
                    Elizabeth's eyes were good enough. The French called them
                        "marcassin," that is, wild boar's eyes. They were
                        little and sparkling; they were not luminous and large like
                        Dorothy's, and the girl's flattery was rank. Elizabeth,
                        however, saw Dorothy's eyes and believed her
                            w-ds rather  than the
                        reply of the lying mirror, and her Majesty's heart was soft from
                        the girl's kneading. Consider, I pray you, the serpent-like wisdom
                        displayed by Dorothy's method of attack upon the queen. She did not
                        ask for John's liberty. She did not seek it. She sought only to
                        place John softly on Elizabeth's heart. Some natures absorb
                        flattery as the desert sands absorb the unfrequent rain, and
                        Elizabeth—but I will speak no ill of her. She is the greatest and
                        the best sovereign England has ever had. May God send to my beloved country
                        others like her. She had many small shortcomings; but I have noticed that
                        those persons who spend their evil energies in little faults have less force
                        left for greater ones. I will show you a mystery: Little faults are
                        personally more disagreeable and rasping to us than great ones. Like flying
                        grains of sand upon a windy day, they vex us constantly. Great faults come
                        like an avalanche, but they come less frequently, and we often admire their
                        possessor, who sooner or later is apt to become our destroyer.
                    "I can hardly tell you," said Dorothy in response to a
                        question by Elizabeth, "I can hardly tell you why I informed your
                        Majesty of Queen Mary's presence at Rutland. I did it partly for
                        love of your Majesty and partly because I was jealous of that white, plain
                        woman from Scotland."
                    "She is not a plain woman, is she?" said Elizabeth,
                        delighted to hear Mary of Scotland so spoken of for once. One way to flatter
                        some women is to berate those whom they despise or fear. Elizabeth loved
                        Dorothy better for the hatred which the girl bore to Mary. Both stood upon a
                        broad plane of mutual sympathy—jealousy of the same woman. It
                        united the queen and the maiden in a common heart-touching cause.
                    Dorothy's confidence grew apace. "She is plain,"
                        replied Dorothy, poutingly. "She appears plain, colorless, and
                        repulsive by the side of your Majesty."
                    
                    "No, no, Dorothy, that cannot be," returned Queen
                        Elizabeth, gently patting Dorothy's cheek and glancing stealthily
                        at the reflection of her own face in the mirror. At this point Dorothy
                        considered that the time had come for a direct attack.
                    "Your Majesty need have no fear of a plot to place Queen Mary upon
                        your throne. The English people would not endure her wicked pale face for a
                        moment."
                    "But there is such a plot in existence," said
                        Elizabeth.
                    "What you say may be true," returned Dorothy;
                        "but, your Majesty, John is not in the plot, and he knows nothing
                        of it."
                    "I hope—I believe—he is not in the plot,"
                        said Elizabeth, "but I fear—"
                    The girl kissed the sleeve of Elizabeth's gown, and then she drew
                        the queen closer to her and kissed her hair and her face.
                    "Ah, my beauteous queen," said Dorothy, "I thank
                        you for those words. You must know that John loves you, and is your loyal
                        subject. Take pity upon me. Help me. Hold out your gracious hand and lift me
                        from my despair."
                    Dorothy slipped from the bed and fell on her knees, burying her face in the
                        queen's lap.
                    Elizabeth was touched by the girl's appeal, and caressingly stroked
                        her hair, as she said: "I believe he is innocent, but I fear he
                        knows or suspects others who harbor treasonable designs. Tell me, Dorothy,
                        do you know of any such persons? If you can tell me their names, you will
                        serve your queen, and will save your lover. No harm shall come to Sir John,
                        and no one save myself shall have knowledge of any word that you may speak.
                        If I do not learn the names of the traitors through you or through Sir John,
                        I may be compelled to hold him a prisoner until I discover them. If through
                        you I learn them, Sir John shall go free at once."
                    
                    "Gladly, for your Majesty's sake alone would I tell you the
                        names of such traitorous men, did I know them;" replied Dorothy,
                        "and thrice gladly would I do so if I might thereby liberate John.
                        Your Majesty must see that these motives are strong enough to induce me to
                        speak if I knew aught to tell you. I would betray the whole world to save
                        him, of that you may be sure. But alas! I know no man whom I can betray.
                        John told me nothing of his expedition to the Scottish border save what was
                        in two letters which he sent to me. One of these I received before he left
                        Rutland, and the other after his return."
                    She fetched the letters to the queen, who read them carefully.
                    "Perhaps if I were to see him, he might, upon my importunity, tell
                        me all he knows concerning the affair and those connected with it if he
                        knows anything more than he has already told," said Dorothy, by a
                        great effort suppressing her eagerness. "I am sure, your Majesty,
                        he would tell me all. Should he tell me the names of any persons connected
                        with any treasonable plot, I will certainly tell you. It would be base in me
                        again to betray John's confidence; but your Majesty has promised me
                        his life and liberty, and to obtain those I would do anything, however evil
                        it might be. If I may see John, I promise to learn all that he knows, if he
                        knows anything; and I also promise to tell you word for word all that he
                        says."
                    The girl felt safe in making these promises, since she was sure that John
                        knew nothing of a treasonable character.
                    The queen, thinking that she had adroitly led Dorothy up to making the offer,
                        said, "I accept the conditions. Be in readiness to visit Sir John,
                        upon my command."
                    Thus the compact was sealed, and the queen, who thought herself wise, was
                        used by the girl, who thought herself simple.
                    
                    For the purpose of hiding her exultation, Dorothy appeared to be ill, but
                        when the queen passed out at the door and closed it behind her, the girl
                        sprang from the bed and danced around the room as if she were a bear-baiter.
                        From the depths of despair she flew to the pinnacle of hope. She knew,
                        however, that she must conceal her happiness; therefore she went back to bed
                        and waited impatiently the summons of Elizabeth requiring her to go to
                        John.
                    But now I must pause to tell you of my troubles which followed so swiftly
                        upon the heels of my fault that I was fairly stunned by them. My narrative
                        will be brief, and I shall soon bring you back again to Dorothy.
                    Queen Mary had no sooner arrived at Haddon Hall than she opened an attack
                        upon Leicester, somewhat after the same plan, I suppose, which she had
                        followed with me in the coach. She could no more easily resist inviting
                        homage from men than a swallow can refrain from flying. Thus, from
                        inclination and policy, she sought Leicester and endeavored by the pleasant
                        paths of her blandishments to lead him to her cause. There can be no doubt
                        concerning Leicester's wishes in the premises. Had Mary's
                        cause held elements of success, he would have joined her; but he feared
                        Elizabeth, and he hoped some day to share her throne. He would, however,
                        prefer to share the throne with Mary.
                    Mary told him of her plans and hopes. She told him that I had ridden with
                        Dorothy for the purpose of rescuing John and herself, and that I had
                        promised to help her to escape to France. She told him she would use me for
                        her tool in making her escape, and would discard me when once she should be
                        safe out of England. Then would come Leicester's turn. Then should
                        my lord have his recompense, and together they would regain the Scottish
                        crown.
                    
                    How deeply Leicester became engaged in the plot I cannot say, but this I
                        cannot say, but this I know: through fear of Elizabeth, or for the purpose
                        of winning her favor, he unfolded to our queen all the details of
                        Mary's scheme, together with the full story of my ride with Dorothy
                        to Rutland, and my return with Dorothy and Mary in the coach. Thereupon Mary
                        was placed under strict guard. The story spread quickly through the Hall,
                        and Dawson brought it to me. On hearing it, my first thought was of Madge. I
                        knew it would soon reach her. Therefore I determined to go to her at once
                        and make a clean breast of all my perfidy. Had I done so sooner, I should at
                        least have had the benefit of an honest, voluntary confession; but my
                        conscience had made a coward of me, and the woman who had been my curse for
                        years had so completely disturbed my mind that I should have been quite as
                        well off without any at all. It led me from one mistake into another.
                    After Dawson told me that my miserable story was known throughout the Hall, I
                        sought Madge, and found her with Aunt Dorothy. She was weeping, and I at
                        once knew that I was too late with my confession. I spoke her
                        name," Madge," and stood by her side awaiting her
                        reply.
                    "Is it true, Malcolm?" she asked. "I cannot
                        believe it till I hear it from your lips."
                    "It was true," I responded. "I promised to help
                        Queen Mary escape, and I promised to go with her; but within one hour of the
                        time when I gave my word I regretted it as I have never regretted anything
                        else in all my life. I resolved that, while I should, according to my
                        promise, help the Scottish queen escape, I would not go with her. I resolved
                        to wait here at Haddon to tell all to you and to our queen, and then I would
                        patiently take my just punishment from each. My doom from the queen, I
                        believed, would probably be death; but I feared more your—God help
                        me! It is useless for me to speak." Here I broke  down and fell upon my knees, crying,
                        "Madge, Madge, pity me, pity me! Forgive me if you can, and, if our
                        queen decrees it, I shall die happy."
                    In my desperation I caught the girl's hand, but she drew it quickly
                        from me, and said:—
                    Do not touch me!"
                    She arose to her feet, and groped her way to her bedroom. We were in Aunt
                        Dorothy's room. I watched Madge as she sought with her outstretched
                        hand the doorway; and when she passed slowly through it, the sun of my life
                        seemed to turn black. Just as Madge passed from the room, Sir William St.
                        Loe, with two yeomen, entered by Sir George's door and placed irons
                        upon my wrist and ankles. I was led by Sir William to the dungeon, and no
                        word was spoken by either of us.
                    I had never in my life feared death, and now I felt that I would welcome it.
                        When a man is convinced that his life is useless, through the dire disaster
                        that he is a fool, he values it little, and is even more than willing to
                        lose it.
                    Then there were three of us in the dungeon,—John, Lord Rutland, and
                        myself; and we were all there because we had meddled in the affairs of
                        others, and because Dorothy had inherited from Eve a capacity for insane,
                        unreasoning jealousy.
                    Lord Rutland was sitting on the ground in a corner of the dungeon. John, by
                        the help of a projecting stone in the masonry, had climbed to the small
                        grated opening which served to admit a few straggling rays of light into the
                        dungeon's gloom. He was gazing out upon the fair day, whose beauty
                        he feared would soon fade away from him forever.
                    Elizabeth's coldness had given him no hope. It had taken all hope
                        from his father.
                    The opening of the door attracted John's attention, and he turned
                        his face toward me when I entered. He had 
                        been looking toward the light, and his eyes, unaccustomed for the moment to
                        the darkness, failed at first to recognize of me. When the dungeon door had
                        closed behind me, he sprang down from his perch by the window, and came
                        toward me with outstretched hands. He said sorrowfully:—
                    "Malcolm, have I brought you here, too? Why are you in irons? It
                        seems that I am destined to bring calamity upon all whom I
                        love."
                    "It is a long story," I replied laughingly. "I
                        will tell it to you when the time begins to drag; but I tell you now it is
                        through no fault of yours that I am here. No one is to blame for my
                        misfortune but myself." Then I continued bitterly, "Unless
                        it be the good God who created me a fool."
                    John went to his father's side and said:—
                    "Sir Malcolm is here, father. Will you not rise and greet
                        him?"
                    John's voice aroused his father, and the old lord came to the little
                        patch of light in which I was standing and said:
                    "A terrible evil has fallen upon us, Sir Malcolm, and without our
                        fault. I grieve to learn that you also are entangled in the web. The future
                        looks very dark."
                    "Cheer up, father," said John, taking the old
                        man's hand. "Light will soon come; I am sure it
                        will."
                    "I have tried all my life to be a just man," said Lord
                        Rutland. "I have failed at times, I fear, but I have tried. That is
                        all any man can do. I pray that God in His mercy will soon send light to
                        you, John, whatever of darkness there may be in store for me."
                    I thought, "He will surely answer this just man's
                        prayer," and almost before the thought was completed the dungeon
                        door turned upon its hinges and a great light came with glorious refulgence
                        through the open portal—Dorothy.
                    "John!"
                    Never before did one word express so much of mingled  joy and grief. Fear and confidence, and, greater than all,
                        love unutterable were blended in its eloquent tones. She sprang to John as
                        the lightning leaps from cloud to cloud, and he caught her to his heart. He
                        gently kissed her hair, her face being hidden in the folds of his
                        doublet.
                    "Let me kneel, John, let me kneel," she murmured.
                    "No, Dorothy, no," he responded, holding her closely in his
                        arms.
                    "But one moment, John," she pleaded. trying to turn her
                        face upward toward his own.
                    "I cannot yet, John, I cannot. Please let me kneel for one little
                        moment at your feet."
                    "John saw that the girl would find relief in self-abasement, so he
                        relaxed his arms, and she sank to her knees upon the dungeon floor. She wept
                        softly for a moment, and then throwing back her head with her old impulsive
                        manner looked up into his face.
                    "Oh, forgive me, John! Forgive me! Not that I deserve your
                        forgiveness, but because you pity me."
                    "I forgave you long ago, Dorothy. You had my full forgiveness before
                        you asked it."
                    He lifted the weeping girl to her feet and the two clung together in silence.
                        After a pause Dorothy spoke:—
                    "You have not asked me, John, why I betrayed you."
                    "I want to know nothing, Dorothy, save that you love
                        me."
                    "That you already know. But you cannot know how much I love you. I
                        myself don't know. John, I seem to have turned all to love. However
                        much there is of me, that much there is of love for you. As the salt is in
                        every drop of the sea, so love is in every part of my being; but
                        John," she continued, drooping her head and speaking regretfully,
                        "the salt in the sea is not unmixed with many  things hurtful." Her face blushed with shame and she
                        continued limpingly: "And my love is not—is not without
                        evil. Oh, John, I feel deep shame in telling you, but my love is terribly
                        jealous. At times a jealousy comes over me so fierce and so distracting that
                        under its influence I am mad, John, mad. I then see nothing in its true
                        light; my eyes seem filled with—with blood, and all things appear
                        red or black and—and—oh! John, I pray you never again
                        cause me jealousy. It makes a demon of me."
                    You may well know that John was nonplussed.
                    "I cause you jealousy?" he asked in surprise.
                        "When did I—" But Dorothy interrupted him, her
                        eyes flashing darkly and a note of fierceness in her voice. He saw for
                        himself the effects of jealousy upon her.
                    "That white—white Scottish wanton! God's curse be
                        upon her! She tried to steal you from me."
                    "Perhaps she did," replied John, smilingly, "of
                        that I do not know. But this I do know, and you, Dorothy, must know it too
                        henceforth and for all time to come. No woman can steal my love from you.
                        Since I gave you my troth I have not been false even in one little
                        thought."
                    "I feel sure, John, that you have not been untrue to me,"
                        said the girl with a faint smile playing about her lips;
                        "but—but you remember the strange woman at Bowling Green
                        Gate whom you would have—"
                    "Dorothy, I hope you have not come to my dungeon for the purpose of
                        making me more wretched than I already am?"
                    "No, no, John, forgive me," she cried softly; "but
                        John, I hate her, I hate her! and I want you to promise that you too will
                        hate her."
                    "I promise," said John," though, you have had no
                        cause for jealousy of Queen Mary."
                    "Perhaps—not," she replied hesitatingly.
                        "I have  never thought," the
                        girl continued poutingly, "that you did anything
                        of which I should be jealous; but she—she—oh, I hate her!
                        Let us not talk about her. Jennie Faxton told me—I will talk about
                        her, and you shall not stop me—Jennie Faxton told me that the white
                        woman made love to you and caused you to put your arm about her waist one
                        evening on the battlements and—"
                    "Jennie told you a lie," said John.
                    "Now don't interrupt me," the girl cried
                        nervously, almost ready for tears, "and I will try to tell you all.
                        Jennie told me the—the white woman looked up to you this
                        fashion," and the languishing look she gave John in imitation of
                        Queen Mary was so beautiful and comical that he could do nothing but laugh
                        and cover her face with kisses, then laugh again and love the girl more
                        deeply and yet more deeply with each new breath he drew. Dorothy was not
                        sure whether she wanted to laugh or to cry, so she did both.
                    "Jennie told me in the middle of the night," continued
                        Dorothy, "when all things seem so vivid and appear so distorted
                        and—and that terrible blinding jealousy of which I told you came
                        upon me and drove me mad. I really thought, John, that I should die of the
                        agony. Oh, John, if you could know the anguish I suffered that night you
                        would pity me; you would not blame me."
                    "I do not blame you, Dorothy."
                    "No, no, there—" she kissed him softly, and
                        quickly continued: "I felt that I must separate her from you at all
                        cost. I would have done murder to accomplish my purpose. Some demon
                        whispered to me, 'Tell Queen Elizabeth,' and—and
                        oh, John, let me kneel again."
                    "No, no, Dorothy, let us talk of something else," said
                        John, soothingly.
                    "In one moment, John. I thought only of the evil that would come to
                        her—her of Scotland. I did not think of 
                        
                            "SHE SANK TO HER KNEES ON THE DUNGEON
                                FLOOR."
                        
                         the trouble I would bring to you, John, until
                        the queen, after asking me if you were my lover, said angrily: 'You
                        may soon seek another.' Then, John, I knew that I had also brought
                        evil upon you. Then I did suffer. I tried to reach
                        Rutland, and you know all else that happened on that terrible night. Now
                        John, you know all—all. I have withheld nothing. I have confessed
                        all, and I feel that a great weight is taken from my heart. You will not
                        hate me, will you, John?"
                    He caught the girl to his breast and tried to turn her face toward his.
                    "I could not hate you if I would," he replied, with
                        quick-coming breath, "and God knows I would not. To love you is the
                        sweetest joy in life," and he softly kissed the great lustrous eyes
                        till they closed as if in sleep. Then he fiercely sought the rich red lips,
                        waiting soft and passive for his caresses, while the fair head fell back
                        upon the bend of his elbow in a languorous, half-conscious sweet surrender
                        to his will. Lord Rutland and I had turned our backs on the shameless pair,
                        and were busily discussing the prospect for the coming season's
                        crops.
                    Remember, please, that Dorothy spoke to John of Jennie Faxton. Her doing so
                        soon bore bitter fruit for me.
                    Dorothy had been too busy with John to notice any one else, but he soon
                        presented her to his father. After the old lord had gallantly kissed her
                        hand, she turned scornfully to me and said:—
                    "So you fell a victim to her wanton wiles? If it were not for
                        Madge's sake, I could wish you might hang."
                    "You need not balk your kindly desire for Madge's
                        sake," I answered. "She cares little about my fate. I fear
                        she will never forgive me."
                    "One cannot tell what a woman will do," Dorothy replied.
                        "She is apt to make a great fool of herself when it comes to
                        forgiving the man she loves."
                    
                    "Men at times have something to forgive," I retorted,
                        looking with a smile toward John. The girl made no reply, but took
                        John's hand and looked at him as if to say, "John, please
                        don't let this horrid man abuse me."
                    "But Madge no longer cares for me," I continued, wishing to
                        talk upon the theme, "and your words do not apply to
                        her."
                    The girl turned her back disdainfully on me and said, "You seem to
                        be quite as easily duped by the woman who loves you and says she
                        doesn't as by the one who does not care for you but says she
                        does."
                    "Damn that girl's tongue!" thought I; but her
                        words, though biting, carried joy to my heart and light to my soul.
                    After exchanging a few words with Lord Rutland, Dorothy turned to John and
                        said:—
                    "Tell me upon your knightly honor, John, do you know aught of a
                        wicked, treasonable plot to put the Scottish woman on the English
                        throne?"
                    I quickly placed my finger on my lips and touched my ear to indicate that
                        their words would be overheard; for a listening-tube connected the dungeon
                        with Sir George's closet.
                    "Before the holy God, upon my knighthood, by the sacred love we bear
                        each other, I swear I know of no such plot," answered John.
                        "I would be the first to tell our good queen did I suspect its
                        existence."
                    Dorothy and John continued talking upon the subject of the plot, but were
                        soon interrupted by a warning knock upon the dungeon door.
                    Lord Rutland, whose heart was like twenty-two carat gold, soft, pure, and
                        precious, kissed Dorothy's hand when she was about to leave, and
                        said: "Dear lady, grieve not for our sake. I can easily see that
                        more pain has come to you than to us. I thank you for the great fearless
                        love  you bear my son. It has brought him
                        trouble, but it is worth its cost. You have my forgiveness freely, and I
                        pray God's choicest benediction may be with you."
                    She kissed the old lord and said, "I hope some day to make you love
                        me."
                    "That will be an easy task," said his Lordship, gallantly.
                        Dorothy was about to leave. Just at the doorway she remembered the chief
                        purpose of her visit; so she ran back to John, put her hand over his mouth
                        to insure silence, and whispered in his ear.
                    On hearing Dorothy's whispered words, signs of joy were so apparent
                        in John's face that they could not be mistaken. He said nothing,
                        but kissed her hand and she hurriedly left the dungeon.
                    After the dungeon door closed upon Dorothy, John went to his father and
                        whispered a few words to him. Then he came to me, and in the same secretive
                        manner said:—
                    "The queen has promised Dorothy our liberty."
                    I was not at all sure that "our liberty" included
                        me,—I greatly doubted it,—but I was glad for the sake of
                        my friends, and, in truth, cared little for myself.
                    Dorothy went from our dungeon to the queen, and that afternoon, according to
                        promise, Elizabeth gave orders for the release of John and his father. Sir
                        George, of course, was greatly chagrined when his enemies slipped from his
                        grasp; but he dared not show his ill-humor in the presence of the queen nor
                        to any one who would be apt to enlighten her Majesty on the subject.
                    Dorothy did not know the hour when her lover would leave Haddon; but she sat
                        patiently at her window till at last John and Lord Rutland appeared. She
                        called to Madge, telling her of the joyous event, and Madge,
                        asked:—
                    "Is Malcolm with them?"
                    
                    "No," replied Dorothy, "he has been left in the
                        dungeon, where he deserves to remain."
                    After a short pause, Madge said:—
                    "If John had acted toward the Scottish queen as Malcolm did, would
                        you forgive him?"
                    "Yes, of course. I would forgive him anything."
                    "Then why shall we not forgive Malcolm?" asked Madge.
                    "Because he is not John," was the absurd reply.
                    "No," said Madge, promptly; "but he is
                        'John' to me."
                    "That is true," responded Dorothy, "and I will
                        forgive him if you will."
                    "I don't believe it makes much difference to Malcolm
                        whether or not you forgive him," said Madge, who was provoked at
                        Dorothy's condescending offer. "My forgiveness, I hope, is
                        what he desires."
                    "That is true, Madge," replied Dorothy, laughingly;
                        "but may not I, also, forgive him?"
                    "If you choose," responded Madge, quietly; "as for
                        me, I know not what I wish to do."
                    You remember that Dorothy during her visit to the dungeon spoke of Jennie
                        Faxton. The girl's name reached Sir George's ear through
                        the listening-tube and she was at once brought in and put to the
                        question.
                    Jennie, contrary to her wont, became frightened and told all she knew
                        concerning John and Dorothy, including my part in their affairs. In Sir
                        George's mind, my bad faith to him was a greater crime than my
                        treason to Elizabeth, and he at once went to the queen with his tale of
                        woe.
                    Elizabeth, the most sentimental of women, had heard from Dorothy the story of
                        her tempestuous love, and also of mine, and the queen was greatly interested
                        in the situation.
                    I will try to be brief.
                    
                    Through the influence of Dorothy and Madge, as I afterward learned, and by
                        the help of a good word from Cecil, the queen was induced to order my
                        liberation on condition that I should thenceforth reside in France. So one
                        morning, three days after John's departure from Haddon, I was
                        overjoyed to hear the words, "You are free."
                    I did not know that Jennie Faxton had given Sir George her large stock of
                        disturbing information concerning my connection with the affairs of Dorothy
                        and John. So when I left the dungeon, I, supposing that my stormy cousin
                        would be glad to forgive me if Queen Elizabeth would, sought and found him
                        in Aunt Dorothy's room. Lady Crawford and Sir George were sitting
                        near the fire and Madge was standing near the door in the next room beyond.
                        When I entered, Sir George sprang to his feet and cried out
                        angrily:—
                    "You traitorous dog, the queen has seen fit to liberate you, and I
                        cannot interfere with her orders; but if you do not leave my Hall at once I
                        shall set the hounds on you. Your effects will be sent to The Peacock, and
                        the sooner you quit England the safer you will be." There was of
                        course nothing for me to do but to go.
                    "You once told me, Sir George—you remember our interview at
                        The Peacock—that if you should ever again order me to leave Haddon,
                        I should tell you to go to the devil. I now take advantage of your kind
                        permission, and will also say farewell."
                    I kissed Aunt Dorothy's cheek, took my leave, and sought Cecil, from
                        whom I obtained a passport to France. Then I asked Dawson to fetch my
                        horse.
                    I longed to see Madge before I left Haddon, but I knew that my desire could
                        not be gratified; so I determined to stop at Rowsley and send back a letter
                        to her which Dawson undertook to deliver. In my letter I would ask
                        Madge's permission to return for her from France  and to take her home with me as my wife.
                        After I had despatched my letter I would wait at The Peacock for an
                        answer.
                    Sore at heart, I bade good-by to Dawson, mounted my horse, and turned his
                        head toward the Dove-cote Gate. As I rode under Dorothy's window
                        she was sitting there. The casement was open, for the day was mild, although
                        the season was little past midwinter. I heard her call to Madge, and then
                        she called to me:—
                    "Farewell, Malcolm! Forgive me for what I said to you in the
                        dungeon. I was wrong, as usual. Forgive me, and God bless you.
                        Farewell!"
                    While Dorothy was speaking, and before I replied, Madge came to the open
                        casement and called:—
                    "Wait for me, Malcolm, I am going down to you."
                    Great joy is a wonderful purifier, and Madge's cry finished the work
                        of the past few months and made a good man of me, who all my life before had
                        known little else than evil.
                    Soon Madge's horse was led by a groom to the mounting block, and in
                        a few minutes she emerged gropingly from the great door of Entrance Tower.
                        Dorothy was again a prisoner in her rooms and could not come down to bid me
                        farewell. Madge mounted, and the groom led her horse to me and placed the
                        reins in my hands.
                    "Is it you, Malcolm?" asked Madge.
                    "Yes," I responded, in a voice husky with emotion.
                        "I cannot thank you enough for coming to say farewell. You have
                        forgiven me?"
                    "Yes," responded Madge, almost in tears, "but I
                        have not come to say farewell."
                    I did not understand her meaning.
                    "Are you going to ride part of the way with me—perhaps to
                        Rowsley?" I asked, hardly daring to hope for so much.
                    
                    "To France, Malcolm, if you wish to take me," she responded
                        murmuringly.
                    For a little time I could not feel the happiness that had come upon me in so
                        great a flood. But when I had collected my scattered senses, I
                        said:—
                    "I thank God that He has turned your heart again to me. May I feel
                        His righteous anger if ever I give you cause to regret the step you are
                        taking."
                    "I shall never regret it, Malcolm," she answered softly, as
                        she held out her hand to me.
                    Then we rode by the dove-cote, out from Haddon Hall, never to see its walls
                        again.
                    We went to Rutland, whence after a fortnight we journeyed to France. There I
                        received my mother's estates, and never for one moment, to my
                        knowledge, has Madge regretted having intrusted her life and happiness to
                        me. I need not speak for myself.
                    Our home is among the warm, sunlit, vine-covered hills of southern France,
                        and we care not for the joys of golden streets so long as God in His
                        goodness vouchsafes to us our earthly paradise. Age, with the heart at
                        peace, is the fairest season of life; and love, leavened of God, robs even
                        approaching death of his sting and makes for us a broad flower-strewn path
                        from the tempestuous sea of time to the calm, sweet ocean of eternity.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI
                    LEICESTER WAITS AT
                            THE STILE
                    
                    I SHALL now tell you of the happenings in Haddon Hall during the fortnight we
                        spent at Rutland before our departure for France.
                    We left Dorothy, you will remember, a prisoner in her rooms.
                    After John had gone Sir George's wrath began to gather, and Dorothy
                        was not permitted to depart from the Hall for even a walk upon the terrace,
                        nor could she leave her own apartments save when the queen requested her
                        presence.
                    A few days after my departure from Haddon, Sir George sent Dawson out through
                        the adjoining country to invite the nobility and gentry to a grand ball to
                        be given at the Hall in honor of Queen Elizabeth. Queen Mary had been sent a
                        prisoner to Chatsworth.
                    Tom Shaw, the most famous piper of his times, and a choice company of
                        musicians to play with him were hired for the occasion, and, in short, the
                        event was so glorious that its wonders have been sung in minstrelsy
                        throughout Derbyshire ever since.
                    Dorothy's imprisonment saddened Leicester's heart, and he
                        longed to see her, for her beauty had touched him nearly. Accordingly, the
                        earl one day intimated to Sir George his wish in terms that almost bespoke
                        an intention to ask for the girl's hand when upon proper
                        opportunity  the queen's consent
                        might be sought and perchance obtained. His equivocal words did not induce
                        Sir George to grant a meeting by which Dorothy might be compromised; but a
                        robust hope for the ultimate accomplishment of the "Leicester
                        possibility" was aroused in the breast of the King of the Peak, and
                        from hope he could, and soon did, easily step to faith. He saw that the earl
                        was a handsome man, and he believed, at least he hoped, that the fascinating
                        lord might, if he were given an opportunity, woo Dorothy's heart
                        away from the hated scion of a hated race. Sir George, therefore, after
                        several interviews with the earl, grew anxious to give his Lordship an
                        opportunity to win her. But both Sir George and my lord feared
                        Elizabeth's displeasure, and the meeting between Leicester and the
                        girl seemed difficult to contrive. Sir George felt confident that Dorothy
                        could, if she would, easily capture the great lord in a few private
                        interviews; but would she? Dorothy gave her father no encouragement in the
                        matter, and took pains to shun Leicester rather than to seek him.
                    As Dorothy grew unwilling, Leicester and Sir George grew eager, until at
                        length the latter felt that it was almost time to exert his parental
                        authority. He told Aunt Dorothy his feeling on the subject, and she told her
                        niece. It was impossible to know from what source Dorothy might draw
                        inspiration for mischief. It came to her with her father's
                        half-command regarding Leicester.
                    Winter had again asserted itself. The weather was bitter cold and snow
                        covered the ground to the depth of a horse's fetlock.
                    The eventful night of the grand ball arrived, and Dorothy's heart
                        throbbed till she thought surely it would burst.
                    At nightfall guests began to arrive, and Sir George, hospitable soul that he
                        was, grew boisterous with good humor and delight.
                    The rare old battlements of Haddon were ablaze with  flambeaux, and inside the rooms were alight with waxen tapers.
                        The long gallery was brilliant with the smiles of bejewelled beauty, and
                        laughter, song, and merriment filled the grand old Hall from terrace to
                        Entrance Tower. Dorothy, of course, was brought down from her prison to
                        grace the occasion with a beauty which none could rival. Her garments were
                        of soft, clinging, bright-colored silks and snowy laces, and all who saw her
                        agreed that a creature more radiant never greeted the eye of man.
                    When the guests had all arrived, the pipers in the balcony burst forth in
                        heart-swelling strains of music, and every foot in the room longed for the
                        dance to begin.
                    I should like to tell you how Elizabeth most graciously opened the ball with
                        his Majesty, the King of the Peak, amid the plaudits of worshipping
                        subjects, and I should enjoy describing the riotous glory which
                        followed,—for although I was not there, I know intimately all that
                        happened,—but I will balk my desire and tell you only of those
                        things which touched Dorothy.
                    Leicester, of course, danced with her, and during a pause in the figure, the
                        girl in response to pleadings which she had adroitly incited, reluctantly
                        promised to grant the earl the private interview he so much desired if he
                        could suggest some means for bringing it about. Leicester was in raptures
                        over her complaisance and glowed with triumph and delightful anticipation.
                        But he could think of no satisfactory plan whereby his hopes might be
                        brought to a happy fruition. He proposed several, but all seemed
                        impracticable to the coy girl, and she rejected them. After many futile
                        attempts he said:—
                    "I can suggest no good plan, mistress. I pray you, gracious lady,
                        therefore, make full to overflowing the measure of your generosity, and tell
                        me how it may be accomplished."
                    Dorothy hung her head as if in great shame and said:
                    
                    "I fear, my lord, we had better abandon the project for a time. Upon
                        another occasion perhaps—"
                    "No, no," interrupted the earl, pleadingly, "do
                        not so grievously disappoint me. My heart yearns to have you to myself for
                        one little moment where spying eyes cannot see nor prying ears hear. It is
                        cruel in you to raise my hopes only to cast them down. I beg you, tell me if
                        you know in what manner I may meet you privately."
                    After a long pause, Dorothy with downcast eyes said, "I am full of
                        shame, my lord, to consent to this meeting, and then find the way to it,
                        but—but—" ("Yes, yes, my Venus, my
                        gracious one," interrupted the earl)—" but if my
                        father would permit me to—to leave the Hall for a few minutes, I
                        might—oh, it is impossible, my lord. I must not think of
                        it."
                    "I pray you, I beg you," pleaded Leicester. "Tell
                        me, at least, what you might do if your father would permit you to leave the
                        Hall. I would gladly fall to my knees, were it not for the assembled
                        company."
                    With reluctance in her manner and gladness in her heart, the girl
                        said:—
                    "If my father would permit me to leave the Hall, I
                        might—only for a moment, meet you at the stile, in the northeast
                        corner of the garden back of the terrace half an hour hence. But he would
                        not permit me, and—and, my lord, I ought not to go even should
                        father consent."
                    "I will ask your father's permission for you. I will seek
                        him at once," said the eager earl.
                    "No, no, my lord, I pray you, do not," murmured Dorothy,
                        with distracting little troubled wrinkles in her forehead. Her trouble was
                        more for fear lest he would not than for dread that he would.
                    "I will, I will," cried his Lordship, softly; "I
                        insist, and you shall not gainsay me."
                    The girl's only assent was silence, but that was sufficient  for so enterprising a gallant as the noble
                        Robert Dudley, Earl of Leicester. So he at once went to seek Sir George.
                    The old gentleman, although anxious to give Leicester a chance to press his
                        suit with Dorothy, at first refused, but Leicester said:—
                    "My intentions are honorable, Sir George. If I can win your
                        daughter's heart, it is my wish, if the queen's consent
                        can be obtained, to ask Mistress Vernon's hand in
                        marriage."
                    Sir George's breast swelled with pride and satisfaction, for
                        Leicester's words were as near an offer of marriage as it was in
                        his power to make. So the earl received, for Dorothy, permission to leave
                        the Hall, and eagerly carried it to her.
                    "Your father consents gladly," said the earl.
                        "Will you meet me half an hour hence at the stile?"
                    "Yes," murmured the girl, with shamelessly cast down eyes
                        and drooping head. Leicester bowed himself away, and fully fifteen minutes
                        before the appointed time left the Hall to wait in the cold at the stile for
                        Dorothy.
                    Before the expiration of the tedious half hour our meek maiden went to her
                        father and with deep modesty and affected shame said:—
                    "Father, is it your wish that I go out of the Hall for a few minutes
                        to meet—to meet—" She apparently could not finish
                        the sentence, so modest and shame-faced was she.
                    "Yes, Doll, I wish you to go on this condition: if Leicester asks
                        you to marry him, you shall consent to be his wife."
                    "I promise, father," replied the dutiful girl, "if
                        Lord Leicester asks me this night, I will be his wife."
                    "That is well, child, that is well. Once more you are my good,
                        obedient daughter, and I love you. Wear your sable cloak, Doll; the weather
                        is very cold out of doors."
                    Her father's solicitude touched her nearly, and she  gently led him to a secluded alcove near by,
                        threw her arms about his neck, and kissed him passionately. The
                        girl's affection was sweet to the old man who had been without it
                        so long, and his eyes grew moist as he returned her caresses.
                        Dorothy's eyes also were filled with tears. Her throat was choked
                        with sobs, and her heart was sore with pain. Poor young heart! Poor old
                        man!
                    Soon after Dorothy had spoken with her father she left the Hall by
                        Dorothy's Postern. She was wrapped in her sable cloak—the
                        one that had saved John's life in Aunt Dorothy's room; but
                        instead of going across the garden to the stile where Lord Leicester was
                        waiting, which was north and east of the terrace, she sped southward down
                        the terrace and did not stop till she reached the steps which led westward
                        to the lower garden. She stood on the terrace till she saw a man running
                        toward her from the postern in the southwest corner of the lower garden.
                        Then down the steps she sped with winged feet, and out-stretching her arms,
                        fell upon the man's breast, whispering: "John, my love!
                        John, my love!"
                    As for the man—well, during the first minute or two he wasted no
                        time in speech.
                    When he spoke he said:—
                    "We must not tarry here. Horses are waiting at the south end of the
                        footbridge. Let us hasten away at once."
                    Then happened the strangest of all the strange things I have had to record of
                        this strange, fierce, tender, and at times almost half-savage girl.
                    Dorothy for months had longed for that moment. Her heart had almost burst
                        with joy when a new-born hope for it was suggested by the opportunities of
                        the ball and her father's desire touching my lord of Leicester. But
                        now that the longed-for moment was at hand, the tender heart, which had so
                        anxiously awaited it, failed, and the girl broke down weeping
                        hysterically.
                    
                    "Oh, John, you have forgiven so many faults in me," she
                        said between sobs, "that I know you will forgive me when I tell you
                        I cannot go with you to-night. I thought I could and I so intended when I
                        came out here to meet you. But oh, John, my dearest love, I cannot go; I
                        cannot go. Another time I will go with you, John. I promise that I will go
                        with you soon, very soon, John; but I cannot go now, oh, I cannot. You will
                        forgive me, won't you, John? You will forgive me?"
                    "No," cried John in no uncertain tones, "I will
                        not forgive you. I will take you. If you cry out, I will silence
                        you." Thereupon he rudely took the girl in his arms and ran with
                        her toward the garden gate near the north end of the stone footbridge.
                    "John, John!" she cried in terror. But he placed his hand
                        over her mouth and forced her to remain silent till they were past the south
                        wall. Then he removed his hand and she screamed and struggled against him
                        with all her might. Strong as she was, her strength was no match for
                        John's, and her struggles were in vain.
                    John, with his stolen bride, hurriedly crossed the foot bridge and ran to the
                        men who were holding the horses. There he placed Dorothy on her feet and
                        said with a touch of anger:—
                    "Will you mount of your own will or shall I put you in the
                        saddle?"
                    "I'll mount of my own will, John," she replied
                        submissively, "and John, I—I thank you, I thank you
                        for—for—" she stopped speaking and toyed with the
                        tufts of fur that hung from the edges of her cloak.
                    "For what, my love? For what do you thank me?" asked John
                        after a little pause.
                    "For making—me—do—what I—I
                        longed to do. My conscience would not let me do it of my own free
                        will."
                    
                    Then tears came from her eyes in a great flood, and throwing her arms about
                        John's neck she gave him herself and her heart to keep forever and
                        forever.
                    And Leicester was shivering at the stile! The girl had forgotten even the
                        existence of the greatest lord in the realm.
                    My wife, Lord Rutland, and I waited in the watch-room above the castle gates
                        for the coming of Dorothy and John; and when they came—but I will
                        not try to describe the scene. It were a vain effort. Tears and laughter
                        well compounded make the sweetest joy; grief and joy the truest happiness;
                        happiness and pain the grandest soul, and none of these may be described. We
                        may analyze them, and may take them part from part; but, like love, they
                        cannot be compounded. We may know all the component parts, but when we try
                        to create these great emotions in description, we lack the subtle
                        compounding flux to unite the ingredients, and after all is done, we have
                        simply said that black is black and that white is white.
                    Next day, in the morning, Madge and I started for our new home in France. We
                        rode up the hill down which poor Dolcy took her last fatal plunge, and when
                        we reached the crest, we paused to look back. Standing on the battlements,
                        waving a kerchief in farewell to us, was the golden-crowned form of a girl.
                        Soon she covered her face with her kerchief, and we knew she was weeping.
                        Then we, also, wept as we turned away from the fair picture; and since that
                        far-off morning—forty long, long years ago—we have not
                        seen the face nor heard the voice of our sweet, tender friend. Forty years!
                        What an eternity it is if we tear it into minutes!
                
            
        
        
            
            
                L'ENVOI
                The fire ceases to burn; the flames are sucked back into the earth; the
                    doe's blood has boiled away; the caldron cools, and my shadowy
                    friends—so real to me—whom I love with a passionate tenderness
                    beyond my power to express, have sunk into the dread black bank of the past, and
                    my poor, weak wand is powerless to recall them for the space of even one
                    fleeting moment. So I must say farewell to them; but all my life I shall carry a
                    heart full of tender love and pain for the fairest, fiercest, gentlest, weakest,
                    strongest of them all—Dorothy Vernon.
            
            
            
                MALCOLM POSSIBLY IN ERROR
                MALCOLM VERNON is the only writer on the life of Dorothy Vernon who speaks of
                    Rutland Castle. All others writing on the subject say that Belvoir Castle was
                    the home of the Earl of Rutland.
                No other writer mentions the proposed marriage, spoken of by Malcolm, between
                    Dorothy and Lord Derby's son. They do, however, say that Dorothy had an
                    elder sister who married a Stanley, but died childless, leaving Dorothy sole
                    heiress to Sir George Vernon's vast estate.
                All writers agree with Malcolm upon the main fact that brave Dorothy eloped with
                    John Manners and brought to him the fair estate of Haddon, which their
                    descendant, the present Duke of Rutland, now possesses.
                No other writer speaks of Mary Stuart having been at Haddon, and many chroniclers
                    disagree with Malcolm as to the exact date of her imprisonment in Lochleven and
                    her escape.
                In all other essential respects the history of Dorothy Vernon as told by Malcolm
                    agrees with other accounts of her life.
                I do not pretend to reconcile the differences between these great historical
                    authorities, but I confess to considerable faith in Malcolm.
            
            
            
                THE CONQUEROR
                
                    Being the True and Romantic Story of Alexander Hamilton
                    BY GERTRUDE FRANKLIN ATHERTON
                        Author of "Senator North," "The
                            Californians," etc., etc.
                    
                    Cloth 12mo $1.50
                    The romantic story of Hamilton's life has never yet been told in its
                        completeness. The present story by Mrs. Atherton has been written after an
                        exhaustive research into Hamilton's family records, and also into
                        the public records of the West India Islands, where he was born and spent
                        his boyhood. Mrs. Atherton has been able to solve the vexed question of
                        Hamilton's birth, and her story gives not only a full account of
                        his mother but also of his own childhood and boyhood. For the rest, it is a
                        consecutive narrative of Hamilton's life, based entirely on the
                        facts, but is treated in the fashion of a story instead of with the usual
                        conventional biographical method. Many incidents of Hamilton's life
                        which in themselves sound more as if belonging to action than fact have
                        heretofore been merely stated by his biographers as the dryest matter of
                        fact, whereas Mrs. Atherton has thrown into their proper worth these
                        startling and romantic episodes of his life. While adhering in the closet
                        possible manner to the actual facts of Hamilton's life, Mrs.
                        Atherton has written his life's story in the manner of fiction,
                        adding immeasurably to its interest. Hamilton is alive to the reader. One
                        gains a picture of the man from his boy-hood up, the man himself moving and
                        acting throughout his many-sided career—brilliant, generous, a
                        favorite of women, and the astute political genius.
                    Washington, Lafayette, Laurens, Adams, Madison, Burr, and all
                        Hamiltion's personal friends and enemies are dramatis
                            persona in this story. Each has formed the basis of careful study
                        by the author and has then found his place among the personages of the stroy
                        who were to become ultimately so prominent in our history.
                
            
            
            
                THE CRISIS
                By WINSTON CHURCHILL Author of "Richard Carvel,"
                    "The Celebrity," etc. With Eight Full-page Illustrations
                    by HOWARD CHANDLER CHRISTY
                Cloth. 12mo. $1.50
                Mr. HAMILTON W. MABIE, in the Outlook, says of it:
                    "The most important of all is Mr. Winston Churchill's
                    'The Crisis,' which must rank among the foremost books of the
                    year. No more realistic and sympathetic study of Mr. Lincoln has been made than
                    that which is presented in this book, and the figure grows upon the reader as he
                    passes from chapter to chapter. The interest in Mr. Lincoln's rare
                    personality steadily deepens as one perceives underneath his homeliness the
                    elements of power and the nobility in his character. No finer interpretation of
                    Mr. Lincoln's spirit has been ever made than that which Mr. Churchill
                    makes in the few words he puts into Lincoln's mouth in his interview
                    with Virginia Carvel. It has the elements of originality and power, and is above
                    all profoundly interesting. It possesses the great quality of interpreting
                    American life from an intelligent American point of view. A process very much
                    rarer than most people think."
                The London Academy says in regard to "The
                    Crisis" that Mr. Winston Churchill has not gone back. He will not be
                    among those authors who achieve fame in a month only to lose it again in a few
                    years.
                He will always be a dignified and impressive figure in American letters, and his
                    books will always have an immense sale.
                The London Spectator again praises the book highly and says:
                    "We do not grudge Mr. Churchill his popularity, but rather welcome it
                    as an excellent sign of the times. For he has given us an exceedingly spirited,
                    interesting, and right-minded romance of the Civil War, in which, while
                    generously appreciative of the chivalry, the heroism, and the charm of the
                    Southerners, always from the dramatic and literary point of view far more
                    picturesque and engaging subjects than the Yankees, he never falters a moment in
                    his enthusiasm for the North. The true hero is Lincoln, and we have to thank Mr.
                    Churchill for a very honest portrait of that great man, and a most graphic
                    account of the manner in which he conquered the admiration of the
                    fastidious."
            
            
            
                Marietta
                
                    A Maid of Venice
                    By F. MARION CRAWFORD
                        Author of "In the Palace of the King,"
                            "Via Crucis," "Saracinesca,"
                            etc.
                    
                    Cloth. 12mo. $1.50
                    The story deals with a romantic episode that is historically true, being
                        taken from one of the old Venetian chronicles of the latter part of the
                        fifteenth century, during the development of the greatest splendor of the
                        Queen of the Adriatic.
                    The action and interest centre in the household of a master glass-blower, a
                        member of one of the most powerful Venetian trade corporations which had
                        many rights and curious privileges, and are picturesquely brought out.
                    But aside from its power as a story and its vivid picture of domestic life in
                        the Middle Ages, the book shares the peculiar charm of
                        "Marzio's Crucifix," "A Roman
                        Singer," and other of Mr. Crawford's descriptions of
                        artists and their surroundings, which have always been singularly fortunate,
                        possibly because of special sympathies dating from his boyhood in Rome,
                        where his father was the well-known sculptor, Thomas Crawford.
                
            
            
                A Friend with the Countersign
                By B. K. BENSON
                    Author of "Who Goes There?" etc.
                
                Cloth. 12mo. $1.50
                Those who have read "the best spy story of the Civil
                    War"—described by the Boston Herald as:
                        "Quite the most extraordinary and remarkable of recetn
                        stories of personal adventure in warfare . . . a story of such
                    vividness and power that once you have gotten immersed in it, you want to shut
                    out the rest of the world completely until you have finished it," will
                    not be surprised to find in the new novel a story of desperate personal
                    adventure, political plot and counterplot, villany, and of a devoted
                    woman's love, all interwoven with the Virginia Campaigns of Grant and
                    Lee, and detailed with rare historical accuracy.
            
            
            
                NEW FICTION
                
                    Calumet "K"
                    By MERWIN-WEBSTER
                        Authors of "The Short Line War,"
                            "The Banker and the Bear," etc.
                    
                    Illustrated. Cloth. 12mo. $1.50
                    Calumet "K" is a two-million-bushel grain elevator, and
                        this story tells how Charlie Bannon built it "against
                        time." The elevator must be done by December 31. There are persons
                        that are interested in delaying the work, and it is these, as well as the
                        "walking delegates," that Bannon has to fight. The story
                        of how they tried to "tie up" the lumber, two hundred
                        miles away, and of how he outwitted them and "just carried it
                        off," shows the kinds of thing that Bannon can do best. In spite of
                        his temptation to brag—he was for two years a "chief
                        wrecker" on the Grand Trunk, and has many stories to
                        tell—Bannon is one of the men without whom American commerce could
                        not get on. The heroine of this story is Bannon's typewriter.
                    Mr. Henry Kitchell Webster and Mr. Samuel Merwin have discovered in the
                        exciting movements of trade and finance a field of fiction hitherto
                        over-looked by American writers, but containing a great wealth of
                        romance.
                
            
            
                God Wills It
                
                    A Tale of the First Crusade
                    By WILLIAM STEARNS DAVIS
                        Author of "A Friend of Cæsar"
                    
                    Cloth. 12mo. $1.50
                    The story revolves around the adventures of Richard Longsword, a redoubtable
                        young Norman cavalier, settled in Sicily; how he won the hand of the
                        Byzantine Princess, Mary Kurkuas; how in expiation of a crime committed
                        under extreme provocation, he took the vows of the Crusader; how in Syria
                        his rival in love, the Egyptian Emir, Iftikhar-Eddauleh stole from him his
                        bride; and how he regained her under romantic circumstances at the storming
                        of Jerusalem by the French.
                    
                        THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 66 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK
                    
                
            
        
    
