
     ----CITATION---- 
        Thompson, Maurice, 1844-1901. A Fortnight of Folly: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2386
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
                
                    A FORTNIGHT OF FOLLY.
                
                BY
                    MAURICE THOMPSON.
                    Author of "Songs of Fair Weather,"
                        "Sylvan Secrets," "A Tallahasse Girl,"
                        "By-Ways and Bird Notes," "A Banker of
                        Bankersville," "At Love's Extremes,"
                        etc.
                
                    NEW YORK:
                    JOHN A. BERRY & COMPANY,
                    1988.
                
            
            
            
                Copyright, 1888. BY MAURICE THOMPSON.
            
        
        
            
            
                A FORTNIGHT OF FOLLY.
                
                    I.
                    THE Hotel Helicon stood on a great rock promontory that
                        jutted far out into a sea of air whose currents and eddies filled a wide,
                        wild valley in the midst of our southern mountain region. It was a new
                        hotel, built by a Cincinnati man who founded his fortune in natural gas
                        speculations, and who had conceived the bright thought of making the house
                        famous at the start by a stroke of rare liberality.
                    Viewing the large building from any favorable point in the valley, it looked
                        like a huge white bird sitting with outstretched wings on the gray rock far
                        up against the tender blue sky. All around it the forests were thick and
                        green, the ravines deep and gloomy and the rocks tumbled into fantastic
                        heaps. When you reached it, which waa after a whole day of hard zig-zag
                        climbing, you found it a rather plain three-story house, whose broad
                        verandas were worried with a mass of jig-saw fancies and whose windows
                        glared at you between wide open green Venetian shutters. Everything look
                        new, almost raw, from the stumps of fresh-cut trees on the lawn and the rope
                        swings and long benches, upon which the paint was scarcely dry, to the
                        resonant floor of the spacious halls and the cedar-fragrant hand-rail of the
                        stairway.
                    
                    There were springs among the rocks. Here the water trickled out with a red
                        gleam of iron oxide, there it sparkled with an excess of carbonic acid, and
                        yonder it bubbled up all the more limpid and clear on account of the
                        offensive sulphuretted hydrogen it was bringing forth. Masses of fern, great
                        cushions of cool moss and tangles of blooming shrubs and vines fringed the
                        sides of the little ravines down which the spring-streams sang their way to
                        the silver thread of a river in the valley.
                    It was altogether a dizzy perch, a strange, inconvenient, out-of-the-way spot
                        for a summer hotel. You reached it all out of breath, confused as to the
                        points of the compass and disappointed, in every sense of the word, with
                        pretense, empty, raw, vulgar, louda great trap into which you had been
                        inveigled by an eloquent hand-bill! Hotel Helicon, as a name for the place,
                        was considered a happy one. It had come to the proprietor, as if in a dream,
                        one day as he sat smoking. He slapped his thigh with his hand and sprang to
                        his feet. The word that went so smoothly with hotel, as he fancied, had no
                        special meaning in his mind, for the gas man had never been guilty of
                        classical lore-study, but it furnished a taking alliteration.
                    "Hotel Helicon, Hotel Helicon," he repeated;
                        "that's just a dandy name. Hotel Helicon on Mount Boab,
                        open for the season! If that doesn't get 'em,
                        I'll back down."
                    His plans matured themselves very rapidly  in his
                        mind. One brilliant idea followed another in swift succession, until at last
                        he fell upon the scheme of making Hotel Helicon free for the initial season
                        to a select company of authors chosen from among the most brilliant and
                        famous in our country.
                    "Zounds! " he exclaimed, all to himself, "but
                        won't that be a darling old advertisement! I'll have a few
                        sprightly newspaper people along with 'em, too, to do the
                        interviewing and pufT-i ng. By jacks, with 'em, too, to do the
                        interviewing and puffing. By jacks, it's just the wrinkle to a
                        dot!"
                    Mr. Gaslucky was of the opinion that, like Napoleon, he was in the hands of
                        irresistible destiny which would ensure the success of whatever he might
                        undertake; still he was also a realist and depended largely upon tricks for
                        his results. He had felt the great value of what he liked to term legitimate
                        advertising, and he was fond of saying to himself that any scheme would
                        succeed if properly set before the world. He regarded it a maxim that
                        anything which can be clearly described is a fact. His realism was the
                        gospel of success, he declared, and needed but to be stated to be adopted by
                        all the world.
                    From the first he saw how his hotel was to be an intellectual focus; moreover
                        he designed to have it radiate its own glory like a star set upon Mt. Boab.
                    The difficulties inherent in this project were from the first quite apparent
                        to Mr. Gaslucky, but he was full of expedients and cunning. He had come out
                        of the lowest stratum of life, fighting  his way
                        up to success, and his knowledge of human nature was accurate if not very
                        broad.
                    Early in the summer, about the first days of June, in fact, certain
                        well-known and somewhat distinguished American authors received by due
                        course of mail an autograph letter from Mr. Gaslucky, which was
                        substantially as follows: 
                            
                                
                                    CINCINNATI, O., May 30, 1887.
                                            MY DEAR SIR:
                                    The Hotel Helicon, situated on the Leucadian promontory, far
                                        up the height of Mt. Boab and overlooking the glorious
                                        valley of the Big Mash River, amid the grandest scenery of
                                        the Cumberland Mountains, where at their southern extremity
                                        they break into awful peaks, chasms and escarpments, is now
                                        thrown open to a few favored guests for the summer. The
                                        proprietor in a spirit of liberality (and for the purpose of
                                        making this charming hotel known to select public) is
                                        issuing a few special invitations to distinguished people to
                                        come and spend the summer free of charge. You are cordially
                                        and urgently invited. The Hotel Helicon is a place to
                                        delight the artist and the litterateur. It
                                        is high, airy, cool, surrounded by wild scenes, good
                                        shooting and fishing at hand, incomparable mineral springs,
                                        baths, grottos, dark ravines and indeed everything engaging
                                        to the imagination. The proprietor will exhaust effort to
                                        make his chosen guests happy. The rooms are new, sweet,
                                        beautifully furnished and altogether comfortable, and the
                                        table will have every delicacy of the season served in the
                                        best style. There will be no uninvited guests, all will be
                                        chosen from the most exalted class. Come, and for  one season taste the sweets of
                                        the dews of Helicon, without money and without price.
                                    If you accept this earnest and cordial invitation, notify me
                                        at once. Hotel Helicon is at your command.
                                    Truly yours,
                                        ISAIAH R. GASLUCKY.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    It is needless to say that this letter was the product of a professional
                        advertising agent employed for the occasion by the proprietor of Hotel
                        Helicon. The reader will observe the earmarks of the creation and readily
                        recognize its source. Of course, when the letter was addressed to a woman
                        there was a change, not only in the gender of the terms, but in the tone,
                        which took on a more persuasive color. The attractions of the place were
                        described in more poetic phrasing and a cunningly half-hidden thread of
                        romance, about picturesque mountaineers and retired and reformed bandits,
                        was woven in.
                    Naturally enough, each individual who received this rather uncommon letter,
                        read it askance, at first, suspecting a trick, but the newspapers soon
                        cleared the matter up by announcing that Mr. Isaiah Gaslucky, of Cincinnati,
                        had "conceived the happy idea of making his new and picturesque
                        Hotel Helicon free this season to a small and select company of
                        distinguished guests. The hotel will not be open to the public until next
                        year."
                    And thus it came to pass that in midsummer such a company as never before was
                        assembled, met on Mt. Boab and made the halls of Hotel  Helicon gay with their colors and noisy with their mirth. The
                        woods, the dizzy cliffs, the bubbling springs, the cool hollows, the windy
                        peaks and the mossy nooks were filled with song, laughter, murmuring
                        under-tones of sentiment, or something a little sweeter and warmer, and
                        there were literary conversations, and critical talks, and jolly satire
                        bandied about, with some scraps of adventure and some bits of rather
                        ludicrous mishap thrown in for variety.
                    Over all hung a summer sky, for the most part cloudless, and the days were as
                        sweet as the nights were delicious.
                
                
                    II.
                    IN the afternoon of a breezy day, at the time when the
                        shadows were taking full possession of the valley, the coach arrived at
                        Hotel Helicon from the little railway station at the foot of Mt. Boab.
                    A man, the only passenger, alighted from his perch beside the driver and for
                        a moment stood as if a little dazed by what he saw.
                    He was very short, rather round and stout, and bore himself quietly, almost
                        demurely. His head was large, his feet and hands were small and his face
                        wore the expression of an habitual good humor amounting nearly to jolliness,
                        albeit two vertical wrinkles between his brows hinted of a sturdy will
                        seated behind a heavy Napoleonic forehead. The stubbly tufts of grizzled
                        hair that formed his mustaches shaded  a mouth
                        and chin at once strong and pleasing. He impressed the group of people on
                        the hotel veranda most favorably, and at once a little buzz of inquiry
                        circulated. No one knew him.
                    That this was an important arrival could not be doubted; it was felt at once
                        and profoundly. Great men carry an air of individuality about with them;
                        each, like a planet, has his own peculiar atmosphere by which his light is
                        modified. There was no mistaking the light in this instance; it indicated a
                        luminary of the first magnitude.
                    Unfortunately the guests at Hotel Helicon were not required to record their
                        names in a register, therefore the new comer could bide his own time to make
                        himself known.
                    Miss Alice Moyne, of Virginia, the beautiful young author of two or three
                        picturesque short stories lately published in a popular magazine, was in
                        conversation with Hartley Crane, the rising poet from Kentucky, just at the
                        moment arrival caused a flutter on the vernda.
                    "Oh, I do wonder if he can be Edgar De Vere?" she
                        exclaimed.
                    "No," said Hartley Crane, "I have seen De Vere; he
                        is as large and as fascinating as his romances. That little pudgy individual
                        could never make a great romantic fiction like Solway
                        Moss, by De Vere."
                    "But that is a superb head," whispered Miss Moyne,
                        "the head of a master, a genius."
                    
                    "Oh, there are heads and heads, genius and genius," replied
                        Crane. "I guess the new-comer off as a newspaper man from Chicago
                        or New York. It requires first-class genius to be a good reporter."
                    The stranger under discussion was now giving some directions to a porter
                        regarding his luggage. This he did with that peculiar readiness, or sleight,
                        so to call it, which belongs to none but the veteran traveler. A moment
                        later he came up the wooden steps of the hotel, cast a comprehensive but
                        apparently indifferent glance over the group of guests and passed into the
                        hall, where they heard him say to the boy in waiting: "My room is
                        24."
                    "That is the reserved room," remarked two or three persons
                        at once.
                    Great expectations hung about room 24; much guessing had been indulged in
                        considering who was to be the happy and exalted person chosen to occupy it.
                        Now he had arrived, an utter stranger to them all. Everybody looked inquiry.
                    "Who can he be?"
                    "It must be Mark Twain," suggested little Mrs. Philpot, of
                        Memphis.
                    "Oh, no; Mark Twain is tall, and very handsome; I know
                        Mark," said Crane.
                    "How strange!" ejaculated Miss Moyne, and when everybody
                        laughed, she colored a little and added hastily:
                    "I didn't mean that it was strange that Mr. Crane should
                        know Mr. Twain, but"
                    
                    They drowned her voice with their laughter and hand-clapping.
                    They were not always in this very light mood at Hotel Helicon, but just now
                        they all felt in a trivial vein. It was as if the new guest had brought a
                        breath of frivolous humor along with him and had blown it over them as he
                        passed by.
                    Room 24 was the choice one of Hotel Helicon. Every guest wanted it, on
                        account of its convenience, its size and the superb view its windows
                        afforded; but from the first it had been reserved for this favored
                        individual whose arrival added greater mystery to the matter.
                    As the sun disappeared behind the western mountains, and the great gulf of
                        the valley became a sea of purplish gloom, conversation clung in half
                        whispers to the subject who meantime was arraying himself in evening dress
                        for dinner, posing before the large mirror in room 24 and smiling humorously
                        at himself as one who, criticising his own foibles, still holds to them with
                        a fortitude almost Christian.
                    He parted his hair in the middle, but the line of division was very slight,
                        and he left a pretty, half-cultured short wisp hanging over the centre of
                        his forehead. The wide collar that hid his short neck creased his heavy
                        well-turned jaws, giving to his chin the appearance of being propped up.
                        Although he was quite stout, his head was so broad and his feet so small
                        that he appeared to taper from top to toe in a way that emphasized very
                        forcibly his expression of blended dignity and jollity, youth and middle  age, sincerity and levity. When he had
                        finished his toilet, he sat down by the best window in the best room of
                        Hotel Helicon, and gazed out over the dusky valley to where a line of
                        quivering silver light played fantastically along the line of peaks that
                        notched the delicate blue of the evening sky. The breeze came in, cool and
                        sweet, with a sort of champagne sparkle in its freshness and purity. It
                        whetted his appetite and blew the dust of travel out of his mind. He was
                        glad when the dinner hour arrived.
                    The long table was nearly full when he went down, and he was given a seat
                        between Miss Moyne and little Mrs. Philpot. By that secret cerebral plain,
                        he was aware that the company had just been discussing him. In fact, some
                        one had ventured to wonder if he were Mr. Howells, whereupon Mr. Crane had
                        promptly said that he knew Mr. Howells quite well, and that not unlike the
                        famous realist, he was far from identical with him.
                    Laurens Peck, the bushy-bearded New England critic, whispered in some
                        one's ear that it appeared as if Crane knew everybody, but that the
                        poet's lively imagination had aided him more than his eyes, in all
                        probability. "Fact is," said he, "a Kentuckian
                        soon gets so that he thinks he has been everywhere and
                        seen everybody, whether he has or not."
                    Out of this remark grew a serious affair  which
                        it will be my duty to record at the proper place.
                    Little Mrs. Philpot, who wore gold eye-glasses and had elongated dimples in
                        her cheeks and chin, dexterously managed to have a word or two with the
                        stranger, who smiled upon her graciously without attempting to enter into a
                        conversation. Miss Moyne fared a little better, for she had the charm of
                        grace and beauty to aid her, attended by one of those puffs of good luck
                        which come to none but the young and the beautiful. Mr. R. Hobbs Lucas, a
                        large and awkward historian from New York, knocked over a bottle of claret
                        with his elbow, and the liquor shot with an enthusiastic sparkle diagonally
                        across the table in order to fall on Miss Moyne's lap.
                    With that celerity which in very short and stout persons appears to be
                        spontaneous, a sort of elastic quality, the gentleman from room 24
                        interposed his suddenly outspread napkin. The historian flung himself across
                        the board after the bottle, clawing rather wildly and upsetting things
                        generally. It was but a momentary scene, such as children at school and
                        guests at a summer hotel make more or less merry over, still it drew forth
                        from the genial man of room 24 a remark which slipped into Miss
                        Moyne's ear with the familiarity of well trained humor.
                    "A deluge of wine in a free hotel!" he exclaimed, just
                        above a whisper. "Such generosity is nearly shocking."
                    "I am sorry you mention it," said Miss  Moyne, with her brightest and calmest smile; "I have
                        been idealizing the place. A gush of grape-juice on Helicon is a picturesque
                        thing to contemplate."
                    "But a lap-full of claret on Mt. Boab is not so fine, eh? What a
                        farce poetry is! What a humbug is romance!"
                    The historian had sunk back in his chair and was scowling at the purple stain
                        which kept slowly spreading through the fiber of the cloth.
                    "I always do something," he sighed, and his sincerity was
                        obvious.
                    "And always with aplomb," remarked little
                        Mrs. Philpot.
                    "It would be a genius who could knock over a claret bottle with
                        grace," added Peck. "Now a jug of ale"
                    I was present at table once with Mr. Emerson," began the Kentucky
                        poet, but nobody heard the rest. A waiter came with a heavy napkin to cover
                        the stain, and as he bent over the table he forced the man from room 24 to
                        incline very close to Miss Moyne.
                    "To think of making an instance of Emerson!" he murmured.
                        "Emerson who died before he discovered that men and women have to
                        eat, or that wine will stain a new dress!"
                    "But then he discovered so many things" she began.
                    "Please mention one of them," he glibly interrupted.
                        "What did Emerson ever discover? Did he ever pen a single
                        truth?" 
                        
                            
                                "Aloft in secret veins of air
                                Blows the sweet breath of song."
                            
                         she replied. "He trod the very headlands of truth. But you are
                        not serious" she checked herself, recollecting that she was
                        speaking to a stranger.
                    "Not serious but emphatically in earnest," he went on, in
                        the same genial tone with which he had begun. "There isn't
                        a thing but cunning phrase-form in anything the man ever wrote. He
                        didn't know how to represent life."
                    "Oh, I see," Miss Moyne ventured, "you are a
                        realist."
                    It is impossible to convey any adequate idea of the peculiar shade of
                        contempt she conveyed through the words. She lifted her head a little higher
                        and her beauty rose apace. It was as if she had stamped her little foot and
                        exclaimed: "Of all things I detest realismof all men, I hate
                        realists."
                    "But I kept the wine off your dress!" he urged, as though
                        he had heard her thought. "There's nothing good but what
                        is real. Romance is lie-tissue. Reality is truth-tissue."
                    "Permit me to thank you for your good intentions," she
                        said, with a flash of irony; "you held the napkin just in the right
                        position, but the wine never fell from the table. Still your kindness lost
                        nothing in quality because the danger was imaginary."
                    When dinner was over, Miss Moyne sought out Hartley Crane, the Kentucky poet
                        who knew everybody, and suggested that perhaps 
                        the stranger was Mr. Arthur Selby, the analytical novelist whose name was on
                        everybody's tongue.
                    "But Arthur Selby is thin and bald and has a receding chin. I met
                        him often at theI forget the club in New York," said Crane.
                        "It's more likely that he's some reporter.
                        He's a snob, anyway."
                    "Dear me, no, not a snob, Mr. Crane; he is the most American man I
                        ever met," replied Miss Moyne.
                    "But Americans are the worst of all snobs," he insisted,
                        "especially literary Americans. They adore everything
                        that's foreign and pity everything that's
                        home-made."
                    As he said this he was remembering how Tennyson's and
                        Browning's poems were overshadowing his own, even in Kentucky. From
                        the ring of his voice Miss Moyne suspected something of this sort, and
                        adroitly changed the subject.
                
                
                    III.
                    IT might be imagined that a hotel full of authors would be
                        sure to generate some flashes of disagreement, but, for a time at least,
                        everything went on charmingly at Hotel Helicon. True enough, the name of the
                        occupant of room 24 remained a vexatious secret which kept growing more and
                        more absorbing as certain very cunningly devised schemes for its exposure
                        were easily thwarted; but even this gave the 
                        gentleman a most excellent excuse for nagging the ladies in regard to
                        feminine curiosity and lack of generalship. Under the circumstances it was
                        not to be expected that everybody should be strictly guarded in the phrasing
                        of the nameless man and so engaging was his way of evading or turning aside
                        every thrust, that he steadily won favor. Little Mrs. Philpot, whose seven
                        year old daughter (a bright and sweet little child) had become the pet of
                        Hotel Helicon, was enthusiastic in her pursuit of the stranger's
                        name, and at last she hit upon a plan that promised immediate success. She
                        giggled all to herself, like a high-school girl, instead of like a widow of
                        thirty, as she contemplated certain victory.
                    "Now do you think you can remember, dear?" she said to May,
                        the child, after having explained over and over again what she wished her to
                        do.
                    "Yeth," said May, who lisped charmingly in the sweetest of
                        child voices.
                    "Well, what must you say?"
                    "I muth thay: Pleathe write youryour"
                    "Autograph."
                    "Yeth, your autograph in my album."
                    "That's right, autograph, autograph, don't forget.
                        Now let me hear you say it."
                    "Pleathe write your autograph in my book."
                    Mrs. Philpot caught the child to her breast and kissed it vigorously, and not
                        long afterward little May went forth to try the experiment.  She was armed with her mother's
                        autograph album. When she approached her victim he thought he never had seen
                        so lovely a child. The mother had not spared pains to give most effect to
                        the little thing's delicate and appealing beauty by an artistic
                        arrangement of the shining gold hair and by the simplest but cunningest
                        tricks of color and drapery.
                    With that bird-like shyness so winning in a really beautiful little girl, May
                        walked up to the stranger and made a funny, hesitating courtesy. He looked
                        at her askance, his smiling face shooting forth a ray of tenderness along
                        with a gleam of shrewd suspicion, as he made out the album in her dimpled
                        little hand.
                    "Good morning, little one," he said cheerily.
                        "Have you come to make a call?"
                    He held out both hands and looked so kindly and good that she smiled until
                        dimples just like her mother's played over her cheeks and chin.
                        Half sidewise she crept into his arms and held up the book.
                    "Pleathe write your photograph in my book," she murmured.
                    He took her very gently on his knee, chuckling vigorously, his heavy jaws
                        shaking and coloring.
                    "Who told you to come?" he inquired, with a guilty cunning
                        twinkle in his gray eyes.
                    "Mama told me," was the prompt answer.
                    Again the man chuckled, and, between the shame he felt for having betrayed
                        the child and  delight at the success of his
                        perfidy, he grew quite red in the face. He took the autograph album and
                        turned its stiff, ragged-edged leaves, glancing at the names.
                    "Ah, this is your mama's book, is it?" he went on.
                    "Yeth it is," said May.
                    "And I must write my name in it?"
                    "No, youryour"
                    "Well what?"
                    "I don't 'member."
                    He took from his pocket a stylographic pen and dashed a picturesque sign
                        manual across a page.
                    While the ink was drying he tenderly kissed the child's forehead and
                        then rested his chin on her bright hair. He could hear the clack of balls
                        and mallets and the creak of a lazy swing down below on the so-called lawn,
                        and a hum of voices arose from the veranda. He looked through the open
                        window and saw, as in a dream, blue peaks set against a shining rim of sky
                        with a wisp of vultures slowly wheeling about in a filmy, sheeny space.
                    "Mama said I muthn't stay," apologized the child,
                        slipping down from his knee, which she had found uncomfortably short.
                    He pulled himself together from a diffused state of revery and beamed upon
                        her again with his cheerful smile.
                    She turned near the door and dropped another comical little courtesy, bobbing
                        her curly head till her hair twinkled like a tangle of starbeams  on a brook-ripple, then she darted away, book
                        in hand.
                    Little Mrs. Philpot snatched the album from May, as she ran to her, and
                        greedily rustled the leaves in search of the new record, finding which she
                        gazed at it while her face irradiated every shade of expression between
                        sudden delight and utter perplexity. In fact she could not decipher the
                        autograph, although the handwriting surely was not bad. Loath as she
                        naturally was to sharing her secret with her friends, curiosity at length
                        prevailed and she sought help. Everybody in turn tried to make out the two
                        short words, all in vain till Crane, by the poet's subtle vision,
                        cleared up the mystery, at least to his own satisfaction.
                    "Gaspard Dufour is the name," he asserted, with
                        considerable show of conscious superiority. "A Canadian, I think.
                        In fact I imperfectly recall meeting him once at a dinner given by the
                        Governor General to Lord Bosenthal at Quebec. He writes plays."
                    "Another romance out of the whole cloth by the Bourbon
                        sthete!" whispered the critic. "There's no such a
                        Canadian as Gaspard Dufour, and besides the man's a Westerner
                        rather over-Bostonized. I can tell by his voice and his mixed
                        manners."
                    "But Mrs. Hope would know him," suggested the person
                        addressed. "She meets all the Hub literati, you
                        know."
                    "Literati!" snarled the critic, putting
                        an end to further discussion.
                    
                    A few minutes later Mr. Gaspard Dufour came down and passed out of the hotel,
                        taking his way into the nearest ravine. He wore a very short coat and a
                        slouch hat. In his hand he carried a bundle of fishing-rod joints. A man of
                        his build looks far from dignified in such dress, at best; but nothing could
                        have accentuated more sharply his absurd grotesqueness of appearance than
                        the peculiar waddling gait ho assumed as he descended the steep place and
                        passed out of sight, a fish basket bobbing beside him and a red kerchief
                        shining around his throat.
                    Everybody looked at his neighbor and smiled inquisitively. Now that they had
                        discovered his name, the question arose: What had Gaspard Dufour ever done
                        that he should be accorded the place of honor in Hotel Helicon. No one (save
                        Crane, in a shadowy way) had ever heard of him before. No doubt they all
                        felt a little twinge of resentment; but Dufour, disappearing down the
                        ravine, had in some unaccountable way deepened his significance.
                
                
                    IV.
                    EVERYBODY knows that a mountain hotel has no local color,
                        no sympathy with its environment, no gift of making its guests feel that
                        they are anywhere in particular. It is all very delightful to be held aloft
                        on the shoulder of a giant almost within reach of the sky; but the charm of
                        the thing is not referable to any  definite,
                        visible cause, such as one readily bases ons's love of the sea-side
                        on, or such as accounts for our delight in the life of a great city. No
                        matter how fine the effect of clouds and peaks and sky and gorge, no matter
                        how pure and exhilarating the air, or how blue the filmy deeps of distance,
                        or how mossy the rocks, or how sweet the water, or how cool the wooded
                        vales, the hotel stands there in an indefinite way, with no raison d'etre visible in its make-up, but with an obvious
                        impudence gleaming from its windows. One cannot deport one's self
                        at such a place as if born there. The situation demandsnay, exacts behavior
                        somewhat special and peculiar. No lonely island in the sea is quite as
                        isolated and oat of the world as the top of any mountain, nor can any amount
                        of man's effort soften in the least the savage individuality of
                        mountain scenery so as to render those high places familiar or homelike or
                        genuinely habitable. Delightful enough and fascinating enough all mountain
                        hotels surely are; but the sensation that living in one of them induces is
                        the romantic consciousness of being in a degree "out of space, out
                        oftime." No doubt this feeling was heightened and intensified in
                        the case of the guests at Hotel Helicon who were enjoying the added novelty
                        of entire freedom from the petty economies that usually dog the footsteps
                        and haunt the very dreams of the average summer sojourner. At all events,
                        they were mostly a light-hearted set given over to a  freedom of speech and action which would have horrified them on
                        any lower plane.
                    Scarcely had Gaspard Dufour passed beyond sight down the ravine in search of
                        a trout-brook, than he became the subject of free discussion. Nothing
                        strictly impolite was said about him; but everybody in some way expressed
                        amazement at everybody's ignorance of a man whose importance was
                        apparent and whose name of them a half-recollection of having seen it in
                        connection with some notable literary sensation.
                    "Is there a member of the French institute by the name of
                        Dufour?" inquired R. Hobbs Lucas, the historian, thoughtfully
                        knitting his heavy brows.
                    "I am sure not," said Hartley Crane, "for I met
                        most of the members when I was last at Paris and I do not recall the
                        name."
                    "There goes that Bourbon again," muttered Laurens Peck, the
                        critic; "if one should mention Xenophon, that fellow would claim a
                        personal acquaintance with him!"
                    It was plain enough that Peck did not value Crane very highly, and Crane
                        certainly treated Peck very coolly. Miss Moyne, however, was blissfully
                        unaware that she was the cause of this trouble, and for that matter the men
                        themselves would have denied with indignant fervor any thing of the kind.
                        Both of them were stalwart passionate looking, the New Yorker fair, cool and
                        willful in appearance. Miss Moyne had  been
                        pleased with them both, without a special thought of either, whilst they
                        were going rapidly into the worry and rapture of love, with no care for
                        anybody but her.
                    She was beautiful and good, sweet-voiced, gentle, more inclined to listen
                        than to talk, and eo she captivated everybody from the first.
                    "I think it would be quite interesting," she said,
                        "if it should turn out that Mr. Dufour is a genuine foreign author,
                        like Tolsto or Daudet or"
                    "Realists, and nobody but realists," interposed Mrs.
                        Philpot; "why don't you say Zola, and have done with
                        it?"
                    "Well, Zola, then, if it must be," Miss Moyne responded;
                        "for, barring my American breeding and my Southern conservatism, I
                        am nearly in sympathy withno, not that exactly, but we are so timid. I
                        should like to feel a change in the literary air."
                    "Oh, you talk just as Arthur Selby writes in his critical papers.
                        He's all the time trying to prove that fiction is truth and that
                        truth is fiction. He lauds Zola's and Dostoieffsky's
                        filthy novels to the skies; but in his own novels he's as prudish
                        and Puritanish as if he had been born on Plymouth Rock instead of on an
                        Illinois prairie."
                    "I wonder why he is not a guest here," some one remarked.
                        "I should have thought that our landlord would have had him at all hazards. Just now Selby is monopolizing the  field of American fiction. In fact I think he
                        claims the earth."
                    "It is so easy to assume," said Guilford Ferris, whose
                        romances always commanded eulogy from the press, but invariably fell dead on
                        the market; "but I am told that Selby makes almost nothing from the
                        sales of his books."
                    "But the magazines pay him handsomely," said Miss Moyne.
                    "Yes, they do," replied Ferris, pulling his long brown
                        mustache reflectively, "and I can't see why. He really is
                        not popular; there is no enthusiasm for his fiction."
                    "It's a mere vogue, begotten by the critics," said
                        Hartley Crane. "Criticism is at a very low ebb in America. Our
                        critics are all either ignorant or given over to putting on English and
                        French airs."
                    Ferris opened his eyes in a quiet way and glanced at Peck who, however, did
                        not appear to notice the remark.
                    "There's a set of them in Boston and New York,"
                        Crane went on, "who watch the Revue de Deux
                        Mondes and the London Atheneum, ready to take the cue
                        from them. Even American books must stand or fall by the turn of the foreign
                        thumb."
                    "That is a very ancient grumble," said Ferris, in a tone
                        indicative of impartial indifference.
                    "Take these crude, loose, awkward, almost obscene Russian
                        novels," continued Crane, "and see what a furor the
                        critics of New York and Boston have fermented in their behalf, all  because it chanced that a coterie of Parisian literary rous fancied the filthy
                        imaginings of Dostoieffsky and the raw vulgarity of Tolsto. What would they
                        say of you, Ferris, if you should write
                        so low and dirty a story as Crime and Its Punishment by
                        Dostoieffsky?"
                    "Oh, I don't know, and, begging your grace, I
                        don't care a straw," Ferris replied; "the
                        pubishers would steal all my profits in any event."
                    "Do you really believe that?" inquired Peck.
                    "Believe it? I know it," said Ferris. "When did
                        you ever know of a publisher advertising a book as in its fiftieth thousand
                        so long as the author had any royalty on the sales? The only book of mine
                        that ever had a run was one I sold outright in the manuscript to George
                        Dunkirk & Co., who publish all my works. That puerile effort is now
                        in its ninetieth thousand, while the best of the other six has not yet shown
                        up two thousand! Do you catch the point?"
                    "But what difference can printing a statement of the books sold
                        make, anyway?" innocently inquired Miss Moyne
                    Ferris laughed.
                    "All the difference in the world," he said; "the
                        publisher would have to account to the author for all those thousands,
                        don't you see."
                    "But they have to account, anyhow," replied Miss Moyne,
                        with a perplexed smile.
                    "Account!" exclaimed Ferris, contemptuously;
                        "account! yes, they have to account!"
                    "But they account to me," Miss Moyne gently insisted.
                    
                    "Who are your publishers?" he demanded.
                    "George Dunkirk & Co.," was the answer.
                    "Well," said he, "I'll wager you anything
                        I can come within twenty of guessing the sales up to date of your book. It
                        has sold just eleven hundred and forty copies."
                    She laughed merrily and betrayed the dangerous closeness of his guess by
                        coloring a little.
                    "Oh, its invariably just eleven hundred and forty copies, no matter
                        what kind of a book it is, or what publisher has it," he continued;
                        "I've investigated and have settled the matter."
                    The historian was suddenly thoughtful, little Mrs. Philpot appeared to be
                        making some abstruse calculation, Crane was silently gazing at the ground
                        and Peck, with grim humor in his small eyes, remarked that eleven hundred
                        and forty was a pretty high average upon the whole.
                    Just at this point a figure appeared in the little roadway where it made its
                        last turn lapsing from the wood toward the hotel. A rather tall, slender and
                        angular young woman, bearing a red leather bag in one hand and a blue silk
                        umbrella in the other, strode forward with the pace of a tragedienne. She wore a bright silk dress, leaf-green in color,
                        and a black bonnet, of nearly the Salvation Army pattern, was set far back
                        on her head, giving full play to a mass of short, fine, loosely tumbled
                        yellow hair.
                    She was very much out of breath from her walk up the mountain, but there was
                        a plucky smile on her rather sallow face and an enterprising gleam in her
                        light eyes.
                    
                    She walked right into the hotel, as if she had always lived there, and they
                        heard her talking volubly to the servant as she was following him to a room.
                    Everybody felt a waft of free Western air and knew that Hotel Helicon had
                        received another interesting guest, original if not typical, with qualities
                        that soon must make themselves respected in a degree.
                    "Walked from the station?" Mrs. Philpot ventured, in
                        querulous, though kindly interrogation.
                    "Up the mountain?" Miss Moyne added, with a deprecatory
                        inflection.
                    "And carried that bag!" exclaimed all the rest.
                
                
                    V
                    GASPARD DUFOUR, whose accumulations of
                        adipose tissue appeared to serve him a good turn, as he descended the steep,
                        rocky ravine, hummed a droll tune which was broken at intervals by sundry
                        missteps and down-sittings and side-wise bumps against the jutting crags. He
                        perspired freely, mopping his brow meantime with a vast silk kerchief that
                        hung loosely about his short neck.
                    The wood grew denser as he descended and a damp, mouldy odor pervaded the
                        spaces underneath the commingling boughs of the oaks, pines, cedars, and
                        sassafras. Here and there a lizard scampered around a tree-hole or darted
                             under the fallen leaves. Overhead certain
                        shadowy flittings betrayed the presence of an occasional small bird,
                        demurely going about its business of food-getting. The main elements of the
                        surroundings, however, were gloom and silence. The breeze-currents astir in
                        the valley and rippling over the gray peaks of Mt. Boab could not enter the
                        leafy chambers of this wooded gorge. Heat of a peculiarly sultry sort seemed
                        to be stored here, for as Dufour proceeded he began at length to gasp for
                        breath, and it was with such relief as none but the suffocating can fully
                        appreciate, that he emerged into an open space surrounded, almost, with
                        butting limestone cliffs, but cut across by a noisy little stream that went
                        bubbling down into the valley through a cleft bedecked with ferns and
                        sprinkled with perennial dew from a succession of gentle cascades. The ideal
                        trout-brook was this, so far as appearances could go. At the foot of each
                        tiny water-fall was a swirling pool, semi-opaque, giving forth emerald
                        flashes and silver glints, and bearing little cones of creamy foam round and
                        round on its bosom. A thousand noises, every one a water-note, rising all
                        along the line of the brook's broken current, clashed together with
                        an effect like that of hearing a far-off multitude applauding or some
                        distant army rushing on a charge.
                    So mijgh out of breath and so deluged with perspiration was Dufour that he
                        flung himself upon the ground beside the brook and lay there panting and
                        mopping his face. Overhead  the bit of sky was
                        like turquoise, below a slender glimpse of the valley shone between the rock
                        walls, like a sketch subdued almost to monochrome of crepuscular purple. A
                        fitful breath of cool air fell into the place, fanning the man's
                        almost purple cheeks and forehead, while a wood-thrush, whose liquid voice
                        might have been regarded as part of the water-tumult, sang in a thorn tree
                        hard by.
                    In a half-reclining attitude, Dufour gave himself over to the delicious
                        effect of all this, indulging at the same time in the impolite and
                        ridiculous, but quite Shakespearian, habit of soliloquizing.
                    "Jingo!" he remarked, "Jingo! but isn't
                        this a daisy prospect for trout! If those pools aren't full of the
                        beauties, then there's nothing in Waltonian lore and life
                        isn't worth living. Ha! Jingo! there went one clean above the
                        watera ten ouncer, at least!"
                    He sprang at his rod as if to break it to pieces, and the facility with which
                        he fitted the joints and the reel and run the line and tied the cast was
                        really a wonder.
                    "I knew they were here," he muttered, "just as
                        soon as I laid my eyes on the water. Who ever did see such another
                        brook!"
                    At the third cast of the fly, a brown hackle, by the way, up came a trout
                        with a somersault and a misty gleam of royal purple and silver, attended by
                        a spray of water and a short bubbling sound. Dufour struck deftly, hooking
                        the beautiful fish very insecurely through the edge  of the lower lip. Immediately the reel began to sing and the
                        rod to quiver, while Dufour's eyes glared almost savagely and his
                        lips pursed with comical intensity.
                    Bound and round flew the trout, now rushing to the bottom of the pool, now
                        whisking under a projecting ledge and anon flinging itself clean above the
                        water and shaking itself convulsively.
                    The angler was led hither and thither by his active prey, the exercise
                        bedewing his face again with perspiration, whilst his feet felt the cool
                        bath of water and the soothing embrace of tangled water-grass. The mere
                        switch of a bamboo rod, bent almost into a loop, shook like a rush in a
                        wind.
                    Dufour was ill prepared to formulate a polite response when, at the height of
                        his sport, a gentle but curiously earnest voice exclaimed:
                    "Snatch 'im out, snatch 'im out, dog gone yer
                        clumsy hide! Snatch 'im out, er I'll do it for
                        ye!"
                    The trout must have heard, for as the angler turned to get a hasty glance at
                        the stranger, up it leaped and by a desperate shake broke the snell.
                    "Confound you!" cried Dufour, his face redder than ever.
                        "Confound your meddlesome tongue, why didn't you keep
                        still till I landed him?"
                    There was a tableau set against the gray, lichen-bossed rocks. Two men
                        glaring at each other. The new-comer was a tall, athletic,  brown-faced mountaineer, bearing a gun and
                        wearing two heavy revolvers. He towered above Dufour and gazed down upon him
                        as if about to execute him. The latter did not quail, but grew angrier
                        instead.
                    "You ought to have better sense than to interfere with my sport in
                        such a way! Who are you, anyway?" he cried in a hot, fierce tone.
                    The mountaineer stood silent for a moment, as if collecting words enough for
                        what he felt like saying, then:
                    "See yer," he drawled, rather musically, "ef I
                        take ye by the scruff o' yer neck an' the heel o'
                        yer stockin' an' jest chuck ye inter thet puddle,
                        ye'll begin to surmise who I air, ye saucy little duck-legged
                        minny-catcher, you!"
                    Dufour, remembering his long training years ago at the Gentlemen's
                        Glove-Club, squared himself with fists in position, having flung aside his
                        tackle. In his righteous rage he forgot that his adversary was not only his
                        superior in stature but also heavily armed.
                    "Well, thet' ther' do beat me!" said the
                        mountaineer, with an incredulous ring in his voice. "The very idee!
                        W'y ye little aggervatin' banty rooster, a
                        puttin' up yer props at me! W'y I'll jest
                        eternally and everlastin'ly wring ver neck an' swob the
                        face o' nature wi' ye!"
                    What followed was about as indescribable as a whirlwind in dry grass. The two
                        men appeared to coalesce for a single wild, whirling, resounding instant,
                        and then the mountaineer went  over headlong
                        into the middle of the pool with a great plash and disappeared. Dufour, in a
                        truly gladiatorial attitude, gazed fiercely at the large dimple in which his
                        antagonist was buried for the instant, but out of which he presently
                        projected himself with great promptness, then, as a new thought came to him,
                        he seized the fallen gun of the mountaineer, cocked it and leveled it upon
                        its owner. There was a peculiar meaning in his words as he stormed out:
                    "Lie down! down with you, or I blow a hole clean through you
                        instantly!"
                    Promptly enough the mountaineer lay down until the water rippled around his
                        chin and floated his flaxen beard. Some moments of peculiar silence
                        followed, broken only by the lapsing gurgle and murmur of the brook.
                    Dufour, with arms as steady as iron bars, kept the heavy gun bearing on the
                        gasping face of the unwilling bather, whilst at the same time he was
                        dangerously fingering the trigger. The stout, short figure really had a
                        muscular and doughty air and the heavy face certainly looked warlike.
                    "Stranger, a seein' 'at ye've got the
                        drap onto me, 'spose we swear off an' make up
                        friends?" The man in the water said this at length, in the tone of
                        one presenting a suggestion of doubtful propriety.
                    "Don't hardly think you've cooled off
                        sufficiently, do you?" responded Dufour.
                    "This here's spring warter, ye must
                        'member," offered the mountaineer.
                    
                    The gun was beginning to tire Dufour's arms.
                    "Well, do you knock under?" lie inquired, still carelessly
                        fumbling the trigger.
                    "Great mind ter say yes," was the shivering response.
                    "Oh, take your time to consider, I'm in no hurry,"
                        said Dufour.
                    If the man in the water could have known how the supple but of late untrained
                        arms of the man on shore were aching, the outcome might have been different;
                        but the bath was horribly cold and the gun's muzzle kept its
                        bearing right on the bather's eye.
                    "I give in, ye've got me, stranger," he at last
                        exclaimed.
                    Dufour was mightily relieved as he put down the gun and watched his dripping
                        and shivering antagonist wade out of the cold pool. The men looked at each
                        other curiously.
                    "Ye're the dog gone'dest man 'at ever I
                        see," remarked the mountaineer; "who air ye,
                        anyhow?"
                    "Oh, I'm a pretty good fellow, if you take me on the right
                        tack," said Dufour.
                    The other hesitated a moment, and then inquired:
                    "Air ye one o' them people up at the tavern on the
                        mounting?"
                    "Yes."
                    "A boardin' there?"
                    "Yes."
                    "For all summer?"
                    "Possibly."
                    
                    Again there was a silence, during which the water trickled off the
                        mountaineer's clothes and ran over the little stones at his feet.
                    "Goin' ter make fun o' me when ye git up
                        thar?" the catechism was at length resumed. Dufour laughed.
                    "I could tell a pretty good thing on you," he answered,
                        taking a sweeping observation of the stalwart fellow's appearance
                        as he stood there with his loose jeans trousers and blue cotton shirt
                        clinging to his shivering limbs.
                    "See yer, now," said the latter, in a wheedling tone, and
                        wringing his light, thin beard with one sinewy dark hand, "see yer,
                        now, I'd like for ye not ter do thet, stronger."
                    "Why?"
                    "Well," said tlie mountaineer, after some picturesque
                        hesitation and faltering, "'cause I hev a
                        'quaintance o' mine up ther' at thet
                        tavern."
                    "Indeed, have you? Who is it?"
                    "Mebbe ye mought be erquainted with Miss Sarah Anna Crabb?"
                    "No."
                    "Well, she's up ther', she stayed all night at our
                        house las' night an' went on up ther' this
                        mornin'; she's a literary woman an' purty,
                        an' smart, an' a mighty much of a talker."
                    "Ugh!"
                    "Jest tell her 'at ye met me down yer, an'
                        'at I'm tol'ble well; but don't say
                        nothin' 'bout this 'ere duckin'
                        'at ye gi' me, will ye?"
                    "Oh, of course, that's all right," Dufour hastened
                             to say, feeling an indescribable thrill of
                        sympathy for the man.
                    "Yer's my hand, strenger, an' w'en Wesley
                        Tolliver gives a feller his hand hit means all there air ter mean,"
                        exclaimed the latter, as warmly as his condition would permit,
                        "an' w'en ye need er friend in these parts jest
                        come ter me."
                    He shouldered his gun, thereupon, and remarking that he might as well be
                        going, strode away over a spur of the mountain, his clothesstill dripping
                        and sticking close to his muscular limbs. Dufour found his rod broken and
                        his reel injured, by having felt the weight of Wesley Tolliver's
                        foot, and so he too turned to retrace his steps.
                    Such an adventure could not fail to gain in spectacular grotesqueness as it
                        took its place in the memory and imagination of Dufour. He had been in the
                        habit of seeing such things on the stage and of condemning them out of hand
                        as the baldest melodramatic nonsense, so that now he could not fairly
                        realize the matter as something that had taken place in his life.
                    He was very tired and hungry when he reached Hotel Helicon.
                
                
                    VI.
                    "OH, yes, I walked all the way up the mountain
                        from the railroad depot," explained the young woman whose arrival
                        we chronicled in another chapter, "but I stopped over night at a
                        cabin on the way and discovered some just 
                        delightful charactersthe Tolliversregular Craddock sort of people, an old
                        lady and her son."
                    By some method known only to herself she had put herself upon a
                        speaking-plane with Dufour, who, as she approached him, was standing in an
                        angle of the wide wooden veranda waiting for the moon to rise ever the
                        distant peaks of the eastern mountains.
                    "I saw Mr. Tolliver to-day while whipping a brook down
                        here," said he, turning to look her squarely in the face.
                    "Oh, did you! Isn't he a virile, villainous, noble, and
                        altogether melodramatic looking man? I wish there was some one here who
                        could sketch him for me. But say, Mr. Dufour, what do you mean, please, when
                        you speak of whipping a brook?"
                    She took from her pocket a little red notebook and a pencil as he promptly
                        responded: "Whipping a brook? oh, that's angler's
                        nonsense, it means casting the line into the water, you know."
                    "That's funny," she remarked, making a note.
                    She was taller than Dufour, and so slender and angular that in comparison
                        with his excessive plumpness she looked gaunt and bony. In speaking her lips
                        made all sorts of wild contortions showing her uneven teeth to great effect,
                        and the extreme rapidity of her utterance gave an explosive emphasis to her
                        voice. Over her forehead, which projected, a fluffy mass of pale  yellow hair sprang almost fiercely as if to
                        attack her scared and receding chin.
                    "You are from Michigan, I believe, Miss Crabb," remarked
                        Dufour.
                    "Oh, dear, no!" she answered, growing red in the face,
                        "No, indeed. I am from Indiana, from Ringville, associate editor of
                        the Star."
                    "Pardon, I meant Indiana. Of course I knew you were not from
                        Michigan."
                    "Thanks," with a little laugh and a shrug, "I am
                        glad you see the point."
                    "I usually doa little late," he remarked complacently.
                    "You are from Boston, then, I infer," she glibly responded.
                    "Not precisely," he said, with an approving laugh,
                        "but I admit that I have some Bostonian qualities."
                    At this point in the conversation she was drooping over him, so to say, and
                        he was sturdily looking up into her bright, insistent face.
                    "What a group!" said Crane to Mrs. Bridges, a New York
                        fashion editor. "I'd give the best farm in Kentucky (so
                        far as my title goes) for a photograph of it! Doesn't she appear to
                        be just about to peck out his eyes!"
                    "Your lofty imagination plays you fantastic tricks," said
                        Mrs. Bridges. "Is she the famous Western lady
                        reporter?"
                    "The same, of the Ringville Star. I met her at the
                        Cincinnati convention. It was there  that
                        Bascom of the Bugle called her a bag of gimlets, because
                        she bored him so."
                    "Oh!"
                    This exclamation was not in response to what Crane had said, but it was an
                        involuntary tribute to the moon-flower just flaring into bloom between twin
                        peaks lying dusky and heavy against the mist of silver and gold that veiled
                        the sweet sky beyond. A semi-circle of pale straw-colored fire gleamed in
                        the lowest angle of the notch and sent up long, wavering lines of light
                        almost to the zenith, paling the strongest stars and intensifying the
                        shadows in the mountain gorges and valleys. Grim as angry gods, the pines
                        stood along the slopes, as if gloomily contemplating some dark scheme of
                        vengeance.
                    "A real Sapphic," said Crane, dropping into a poetical
                        tone, as an elocutionist does when he is hungry for an opportunity to recite
                        a favorite sketch.
                    "Why a Sapphic?" inquired the matter-of-fact
                        fashion-editor.
                    "Oh, don't you remember that fragment, that glorious
                        picture Sappho's divine genius has made for us"
                    He quoted sonic Greek.
                    "About as divine as Choctaw or Kickapoo," she said.
                        "I understand the moon-shine better. In fact I have a sincere
                        contempt for all this transparent clap-trap you poets and critics indulge in
                        when you got upon your Greek hobby. Divine Sappho, indeed! A lot of bald
                        bits of  jargon made famous by the comments of
                        fogies. Let's look at the moon, please, and be sincere."
                    Sincere!"
                    "Yes, you know very well that if you had written the Sapphic
                        fragments the critics would"
                    "The critics!" What of them? They are a set of disappointed
                        poetasters themselves. Blind with rage at their own failures, they snap
                        right and left without rhyme or reason. Now there's Peck, a
                        regular"
                    "Well, sir, a regular what?" very coolly
                        demanded the critic who had stepped forth from a shadowy angle and now stood
                        facing Crane.
                    "A regular star-gazer," said Mrs. Bridges "Tell us
                        why the planets yonder all look so ghastly through the shimmering
                        moonlight."
                    Peck without reply turned and walked away.
                    "Is he offended?" she asked.
                    "No, he gives offence, but can not take it."
                    Mrs. Bridges grew silent.
                    "We were speaking of Sappho," observed Crane, again gliding
                        into an elocutionary mood. "I have translated the fragment that I
                        repeated a while ago. Let me give it to you.
                    
                        'When on the dusky, violet sky
                        The full flower of the moon blooms high
                        The stars turns pale and die!'"
                    
                    Just then Miss Moyne, dressed all in white, floated by on Peck's
                        arm, uttering a silvery gust of laughter in response to a cynical
                        observation of the critic.
                    
                    "What a lovely girl she is," said Mrs. Bridges.
                        "Mr. Peck showsfine critical acumen in being very fond of
                        her."
                    Crane was desperately silent. "He's a handsome man, too,
                        and I suspect it's a genuine love affair," Mrs. Bridges
                        went on, fanning herself complacently. Back and forth, walking slowly and
                        conversing in a soft minor key, save when now and then Miss Moyne laughed
                        melodiously, the promenaders passed and repassed, Peck never deigning to
                        glance toward Crane, who had forgotten both Sappho and the moon. Miss Moyne
                        did, however, once or twice turn her eyes upon the silent poet.
                    "Oh," went on Miss Crabb, filling Dufour's ears
                        with the hurried din of her words, "Oh, I'm going to write
                        a novel about this place. I never saw a better chance for local color, real
                        transcripts from life, original scenes and genuine romance all tumbled
                        together. Don't you think I might do it?"
                    "It does appear tempting," said Dufour."
                        There's Tolliver for instance, a genuine Chilhowee
                        moonshiner." He appeared to laugh inwardly as he spoke. Indeed he
                        heard the plash of water and the dripping, shivering mountaineer stood forth
                        in his memory down there in the gorge.
                    "A moonshiner!" gasped Miss Crabb, fluttering the leaves of
                        her note-book and writing by moonlight with a celerity that amazed Dufour.
                    
                    "Potentially, at least," he replied evasively. "He
                        looks like one and he don't like water."
                    "If he does turn out to be a real
                        moonshiner," Miss Crabb proceeded reflectively to say, "it
                        will be just too delicious for anything. I don't mind telling you,
                        confidentially, Mr. Dufour, that I am to write some letters while here to
                        the Chicago Daily Lightning Express. So I'd take
                        it as a great favor if you'd give me all the points you
                        get."
                    "That's interesting," he said, with a keen
                        scrutiny of her face for a second. "I shall be glad to be of
                        assistance to you."
                    He made a movement to go, but lingered to say: "Pray give me all the
                        points, too, will you?"
                    "Oh, are you a journalist too?" she inquired, breathlessly
                        hanging over him. "What paper"
                    "I'm not much of anything," he hurriedly
                        interposed, "but I like to know what is going on, that's
                        all."
                    He walked away without further excuse and went up to his room.
                    "I've got to watch him," soliloquized Miss Crabb,
                        "or he'll get the scoop of all the news. Give him points,
                        indeed! Maybe so, but not till after I've sent them to the Lightning Express! I'll keep even with him, or
                        know the reason why."
                    It was a grand panorama that the climbing moon lighted up all around Mount
                        Boab, a vast billowy sea of gloom and sheen. Here were  shining cliffs, there dusky gulches; yonder the pines glittered
                        like steel-armed sentinels on the hill-tops, whilst lower down they appeared
                        to skulk like cloaked assassins. Shadows came and went, now broad-winged and
                        wavering, again slender and swift as the arrows of death. The hotel was
                        bright within and without. Some one was at the grand piano in the hall
                        making rich musica fragment from Beethoven,and a great horned owl down the
                        ravine was booming an effective counterpoint.
                    Crane stood leaning on the railing of the veranda and scowling savagely as
                        Peck and Miss Moyne continued to promenade and converse. He was, without
                        doubt, considering sinister things. Mrs. Bridges, finding him entirely
                        unsympathetic, went to join Miss Crabb, who was alone where she had been
                        left by Dufour. Meantime, up in his room, with his chair tilted far back and
                        his feet thrust out over the sill of an open window, Dufour was smoking a
                        fragrant Cuban cigar, (fifty cents at retail) and alternating smiles with
                        frowns as he contemplated his surroundings.
                    "Authors," he thought, "are the silliest, the
                        vainest, and the most impractical lot of human geese that ever were plucked
                        for their valuable feathers. And newspaper people! Humph!" He
                        chuckled till his chin shook upon his immaculate collar. "Just the
                        idea, now, of that young woman asking me to furnish her with
                        points!"
                    There was something almost jocund blent with his air of solid
                        self-possession, and he  smoked the precious
                        cigars one after another with prodigal indifference and yet with the perfect
                        grace of him to the manner born.
                    "Hotel Helicon on Mt. Boab!" he repeated, and then betook
                        himself to bed.
                
                
                    VII.
                    SOME people are born to find things outto overhear, to
                        reach a place just at the moment in which an event comes to pass thereborn
                        indeed, with the news-gatherer's instinct perfectly developed. Miss
                        Crabb was one of these. How she chanced to over-hear some low-spoken but
                        deadly sounding words that passed between Peck and Crane, it would be hard
                        to say; still she overheard them, and her heart jumped almost into her
                        mouth. It was a thrillingly dramatic passage, there under the heavy-topped
                        oak by the west veranda in the gloom.
                    "Villain!" exclaimed Crane, in the hissing voice of a young
                        tragedy-player at rehearsal, "Villain! you shall not escape me.
                        Defend yourself!"
                    "Nonsense," said Peck, "you talk like a fool. I
                        don't want to fight! What's that you've got in
                        your hand?"
                    "You call me a coward! If I had a good club I should soon show you
                        what I could do, you sneaking assassin!"
                    More words and just as bitter followed, till at last a fight was agreed upon
                        to take place immediately, at a certain point on the verge of a  cliff not far away. There were to be no
                        seconds and the meeting was to end in the death of one or both of the
                        combatants.
                    To Miss Crabb all this had a sound and an appearance as weird as anything in
                        the wildest romance she ever had read. It was near midnight; the hotel was
                        quite soundless and the moon on high made the shadows short and black.
                    "Meet me promptly at the Eagle's Nest in ten
                        minutes," said Crane, "I'll fetch my other sword
                        and give you choice."
                    "All right, sir," responded Peck," but a club
                        would do."
                    The peculiar hollowness of their voices affected the listener as if the
                        sounds had come from a tomb. She felt clammy. Doubtless there is a
                        considerable element of humorous, almost ludicrous bravado in such a scene
                        when coolly viewed; but Miss Crabb could not take a calm, critical attitude
                        just then. At first she was impelled almost irresistibly toward interfering
                        and preventing a bloody encounter; but her professional ambition swept the
                        feeling aside. Still, being a woman, she was dreadfully nervous.
                        "Ugh!" she shuddered, "it will be just awful, but
                        I can't afford to miss getting the full particulars for the Lightning Express. A sure enough duel! It will make my
                        fortune! Oh, if I were a man, now, just only for a few hours, what a comfort
                        it would be! But all the same I must follow themI must see the encounter,
                             describe it as an eye-witness ana send it
                        by wire early in the morning."
                    It occurred to her mind just then that the nearest telegraph station was
                        twelve miles down the mountain, but she did not flinch or waver. The thought
                        that she was required to do what a man might well have shrunk from gave an
                        element of heroism to her pluck. She was conscious of this and went about
                        her task with an elasticity and facility truly admirable.
                    Eagle's Nest was the name of a small area on the top of a beetling
                        cliff whose almost perpendicular wall was dotted with clumps of sturdy
                        little cedar trees growing out of the chinks. It was a dizzy place at all
                        times, but by night the effect of its airy height was very trying on any but
                        the best nerves. Crane and Peck both were men of fine physique and were
                        possessed of stubborn courage and great combativeness. They met on the spot
                        and after choosing swords, coolly and promptly proceeded to the fight. On
                        one hand, close to the cliff's edge, was a thick mass of small oak
                        bushes, on the other hand lay a broken wall of fragmentary stones. The
                        footing-space was fairly good, though a few angular blocks of stone lay here
                        and there, and some brushes of stiff wood-grass were scattered around.
                    Crane led with more caution than one would have expected of an irate
                        Kentuckian, and Peck responded with the brilliant aplomb of an enthusiastic
                        duelist.
                    The swords were neither rapiers nor broadswords,  being the ordinary dress-weapons worn by Confederate Infantry officers in
                        the war timeweapons with a history, since they had been at the thigh of
                        father and son, the bravest of Kentucky Cranes, through many a stormy
                        battle.
                    Peek's back was toward the precipice-brink at the commencement of
                        the engagement, but neither had much the advantage, as the moon was almost
                        directly overhead. As their weapons began to flash and clink, the slender
                        keen echoes fell over into the yawning chasm and went rattling down the
                        steep, ragged face of the precipice. They were vigorous and rather good
                        fencers and it would have been evident to an onlooker of experience that the
                        fight was to be a long one, notwithstanding the great weight of the swords
                        they were using. They soon began to fight fiercely and grew more vehemently
                        aggressive each second, their blows and thrusts and parries and counter-cuts
                        following each other fester and faster until the sounds ran together and the
                        sparks leaped and shone even in the bright moonlight. They mingled
                        broadsword exercise with legitimate rapier fencing and leaped about each
                        other like boxers, their weapons whirling, darting, rising, falling, whilst
                        their breathing became loud and heavy. It was a scene to have stirred the
                        blood of men and women four hundred years ago, when love was worth fighting
                        for and when men were quite able and willing to fight for it.
                    The combatants strained every point of their 
                        strength and skill, and not a drop of blood could either draw. Slash,
                        thrust, whack, clink, clank, clack, click, cling! Bound and round they
                        labored, the fury of their efforts flaming out of their eyes and
                        concentrating in the deep lines of their mouths. As if to listen, the breeze
                        lay still in the trees and the great owl quit hooting in the ravine. Faster
                        and faster fell the blows, swifter and keener leaped the thrusts, quicker
                        and surer the parries were interposed. The swords were hacked and notched
                        like hand-saws, the blades shook and hummed like lyre-cords. Now close to
                        the cliff's edge, now over by the heap of broken stones and then
                        close beside the clump of oak bushes, the men, panting and sweating, their
                        muscles knotted, their sinews leaping like bow-strings, their eyes standing
                        out, as if starting from their sockets, pursued each other without a
                        second's rest or wavering.
                    At last, with an irresistible spurt of fury, Crane drove Peck right into the
                        bushes with a great crash and would not let him out. The critic was not
                        vanquished, however, for, despite the foliage and twigs, he continued to
                        parry and thrust with dangerous accuracy and force.
                    Just at this point a strange thing happened. Right behind Peck there was a
                        tearing, crashing sound and a cry, loud, keen, despairing, terrible,
                        followed immediately by the noise of a body descending among the cedars
                        growing along the face of the awful precipice.
                    It was a woman's voice, shricking in deadly  horror that then came up out of the dizzy depth of space below!
                    The men let fall their swords and leaped to the edge of the cliff with the
                        common thought that it was Miss Moyne who had fallen over. They reeled back
                        giddy and sick, staggering as if drunken.
                    Far down they had seen something white fluttering and gleaming amid a tuft of
                        cedars and a quavering voice had cried:
                    "Help, help, oh, help!"
                    And so the duel was at an end.
                
                
                    VIII.
                    HOTEL HELICON was shaken out of its
                        sleep by the startling rumor to the effect that Miss Moyne had fallen down
                        the precipice at Eagle's Nest.
                    Of all the rudely awakened and mightily frightened inmates, perhaps Miss
                        Moyne herself was most excited by this waft of bad news. She had been
                        sleeping very soundly in dreamless security and did not at first feel the
                        absurdity of being told that she had just tumbled down the escarpment, which
                        in fact she never yet had summoned the courage to approach, even when
                        sustained by a strong masculine arm.
                    "O dear! how did it happen?" she demanded of her aunt, Mrs.
                        Coleman Rhodes, who had rushed upon her dainty couch with the frightful
                        announcement of her accident.
                    "Oh, Alice! you are here, you are not hurt at all! Oh!"
                        Mrs. Rhodeswent on, "and what can it all
                        mean!"
                    
                    Everybody rushed out, of course, as soon as hurried dressing would permit,
                        and fell into the confusion that filled the halls and main veranda.
                    Crane was talking in a loud, bat well modulated strain, explaining the
                        accident:
                    "Mr. Peck and I," he went on to say, "were
                        enjoying a friendly turn at sword-play up here at Eagle's Nest;
                        couldn't sleep, needed exercise, and went up there so as not to
                        disturb any one. While we were fencing she came rushing past through those
                        bushes and leaped right over with a great shriek. She"
                    "Don't stop to talk," cried Mr. R. Hobbs Lucas,
                        with a directness and clearness quite unusual in a historian.
                        "Don't stop to talk, let's go do
                        something!"
                    "Yes, come on," quavered poor Peck, his face whiter than
                        the moon and his beard quivering in sympathy with his voice.
                    "Oh, it's dreadful, awful!" moaned little Mrs.
                        Philpot, "poor, dear Miss Moyne, to think that she is
                        gone!" and she leaned heavily on Miss Moyne's shoulder as
                        she spoke.
                    It was a strange scene, too confused for the best dramatic effect, but
                        spectacular in the extreme. Servants swarmed out with lights that wavered
                        fantastically in the moonshine, while the huddled guests swayed to and fro
                        in a body. Every face was pinched with intense excitement and looked haggard
                        under its crown of disheveled hair. Even the hotel windows stared in stupid
                        horror, and the kindly countenances of the negro waiters took on a
                        bewildered and meaningless  grin set in a black
                        scowl of superstition and terror.
                    When Dufour came upon the scene, he did not appear in the least flurried, and
                        the first thing he did was to lay his hand on Miss Moyne's shoulder
                        and exclaim in a clear tenor strain:
                    "Why, here! it's all a mistake! What are you talking about?
                        Here's Miss Moyne! Here she stands!"
                    "Mercy! where?" enquired little Mrs. Philpot, who was still
                        leaning on her friend and shedding bitter tears.
                    Dufour, with a quiet: "Please don't take offence,"
                        put a hand on either side of Miss Moyne and lifted her so that she stood in
                        a chair looking very sweetly down over the crowd of people.
                    Few indeed are they who can look beautiful under such circumstances, but Miss
                        Moyne certainly did, especially in the eyes of Crane and Peck as they gazed
                        up at her.
                    Forthwith the tragedy became a farce.
                    "That Kentuckian must romance, I suppose," grumbled. R.
                        Hobbs Lucas. "Wonder what he'll tell next."
                    "I don't see how I could be so mistaken," said
                        Peck, after quiet had been somewhat restored, "I would have
                        willingly been sworn to"
                    He was interrupted by a dozen voices hurling ironical phrases at him.
                    "It is every word truth," exclaimed Crane  testily. "Do you suppose I would
                        trifle with so"
                    "Oh, don't you absolutely know that we suppose just that
                        very thing?" said Lucas.
                    With the return of self-consciousness the company began to scatter, the
                        ladies especially scampering to their rooms with rustling celerity. The men
                        grumbled not a little, as if being deprived of a shocking accident touched
                        them with a sting.
                    "The grotesque idea!" ejaculated Dufour. "Such a
                        practical jokeimpractical joke, I might better say, could originate only
                        between a poet and a critic."
                    Everybody went back to bed, feeling more or less injured by Crane and Peck,
                        who shared in their own breasts the common impression that they had made
                        great fools of themselves. If these crest-fallen knights, so lately militant
                        and self-confident, had any cause of quarrel now it was based upon a
                        question as to which should feel the meaner and which should more deeply
                        dread to meet Miss Moyne on the morrow.
                    As for Miss Moyne herself she was indignant although she tried to quiet her
                        aunt, who was ready to shake the dust of Mt. Boab from her feet at once.
                    Next morning, however, when it was discovered that Miss Crabb was missing and
                        that after all something tragic probably had happened, everybody felt
                        relieved.
                
                
                
                    IX
                    MR. WESLEY TOLLIVER
                        might well have served the turn of romancer or realist, as he stood in the
                        shadow of a cedar-clump with the mysterious stillness of midnight all around
                        him. He was a very real and substantial looking personage, and yet his gun,
                        his pistols, his fantastic mountain garb and the wild setting in which he
                        was framed gave him the appearance of a strong sketch meant to illustrate a
                        story by Craddock. Above him towered the cliff at Eagle's Nest and
                        near by was the mountain "Pocket" in which nestled the
                        little distillery whose lurking-place had long been the elusive dream of
                        utopian revenue officers. In a space of brilliant moonlight,
                        Tolliver's dog, a gaunt, brindle cur, sat in statuesque
                        worthlessness, remembering no doubt the hares he never had caught and the
                        meatless bones he had vainly buried during a long ignoble life.
                    The hotel and its inmates had rendered the distillery and its furtive
                        operatives very uneasy of late, and now as Tolliver in his due turn stood
                        guard by night he considered the probability of having to look for some
                        better situation for his obscure manufactory with a species of sadness which
                        it would be impossible to describe. He thought with deep bitterness of all
                        the annoyance he had suffered at the hands of meddling government agents and
                        from the outside world in general and he tried to understand how any person
                        could pretend to see justice in  such
                        persecution. What had he done to merit being hunted like a wild beast?
                        Nothing but buy his neighbor's apples at the fair price of twenty
                        cents a bushel and distil them into apple brandy! Could this possibly be any
                        injury to any government official, or to anybody else? He paid for his
                        still, he paid for the apples, he paid fair wages to the men who worked for
                        him, what more could be justly demanded of him?
                    It was while he was wholly absorbed in trying to solve this knotty problem
                        that far above a strange clink and clatter began, which sounded to him as if
                        it were falling from among the stars. Nothing within his knowledge or
                        experience suggested an explanation of such a phenomenon. He felt a thrill
                        of superstitious terror creep through his iron nerves as the aerial racket
                        increased and seemed to whisk itself from place to place with lightning
                        celerity. An eccentric echo due to the angles and projections of the cliff
                        added weird effect to the sounds.
                    The dog uttered a low plaintive whine and crept close to his master, and even
                        wedged himself with tremulous desperation between the knees of that
                        wondering and startled sentinel.
                    The clinking and clanging soon became loud and continuous, falling in a
                        cataract down the escarpment, accompanied now and again by small fragments
                        of stone and soil.
                    At last Tolliver got control of himself sufficiently, and looked out from his
                        shadowy station  anb up towards the dizzy crown
                        of Eagle's Nest.
                    Just at that moment there was a crash and a scream. He saw a wide-winged,
                        ghostly object come over the edge and swoop down. Another scream, another
                        and another, a tearing sound, a crushing of cedar boughs, a shower of small
                        stones and lumps of soil.
                    Tolliver, frightened as he never before had been, turned and fled, followed
                        by his ecstatic dog.
                    A voice, keen, clear, high, beseeching pursued him and reached his ears.
                    "Help! help! Oh, help!"
                    Surely this was the "Harnt that walks Mt. Boab!" This syren
                        of the mountains had lured many a bunter to his doom.
                    "Oh, me! Oh, my! Oh, mercy on me! Help! help!"
                    Tolliver ran all the faster, as the voice seemed to follow him, turn as he
                        would. He bruised his shins on angular rocks, he ran against trees, he fell
                        over logs, and at last found himself hopelessly entangled in a net of wild
                        grape-vines, with his enthusiastic dog still faithfully wriggling between
                        his knees.
                    The plaintive voice of the syren, now greatly modified by distance, assailed
                        his ears with piteous persistence, as he vainly struggled to free himself.
                        The spot was dark as Erebus, being in the bottom of a ravine, and the more
                        he exerted himself the worse off he became.
                    It was his turn to call for help, but if any of 
                        his friends heard they did not heed his supplications, thinking them but
                        baleful echoes of the Harnt's deceitful voice.
                    It was at the gray of dawn when at last Tolliover got clear of the vines and
                        made his way out of the ravine. By this time he had entirely overcome his
                        fright, and with that stubbornness characteristic of all mountain men, he
                        betook himself back to the exact spot whence he had so precipitately
                        retreated. His dog, forlornly nonchalant, trotted behind him to the place
                        and resumed the seat from which the Harnt had driven him a few hours ago. In
                        this attitude, the animal drooped his nose and indifferently sniffed a
                        curious object lying near.
                    "What's thet ther' thing, Mose?" inquired
                        Tolliver, addressing the dog.
                    "Well I'll her dorg-goned!" he added, as he picked
                        up a woman's bonnet. "If this here don't beat the
                        worl' an' all camp meetin'! Hit airwell,
                        I'll ber dorgedhit airI'm er ghost if hit aint Miss
                        Sara' Anna Crabb's bonnet, by Ned!"
                    He held it up by one silk string and gazed at it with a ludicrously puzzled
                        stare. The dog whined and wagged his tail in humble sympathy with his
                        master's bewilderment.
                    "Hit's kinder interesting haint it, Mose?"
                        Tolliver went on dryly. "We'll hev ter look inter this
                        here thing, won't we, Mose?"
                    As for Mose, he was looking into it with all his eyes. Indeed he was
                        beginning to show  extreme interest, and his
                        tail was pounding the ground with great rapidity.
                    Suddenly a thought leaped into Tolliver's brain and with a start he
                        glanced up the escarpment, his mouth open and his brown cheeks betraying
                        strong emotion. Mose followed his master's movements with kindling
                        eyes, and whined dolefully, his wolfish nose lifted almost vertically.
                    "Is that you, Mr. Tolliver?" fell a voice out of a cedar
                        clump a little way up the side of the cliff.
                    "Hit air me," he responded, as he saw Miss Crabb perched
                        among the thick branches. She had her little red note-book open and was
                        writing vigorously. Her yellow hair was disheveled so that it appeared to
                        surround her face with a flickering light which to Tolliver's mind
                        gave it a most beautiful and altogether lovely expression.
                    "Well, I'll ber" he checked himself and stood in
                        picturesque suspense.
                    "Now, Mr. Tolliver, won't you please help me down from
                        here?" she demanded, closing her note-book and placing her pencil
                        behind her ear. "I'm awfully cramped, sitting in this
                        position so long."
                    The chivalrous mountaineer did not wait to be appealed to a second time, but
                        laying down his gun to which he had clung throughout the night, he clambered
                        up the steep face of the rook, from projection to projection, until he
                        reached the tree in which Miss Crabb sat, 
                        Meantime she watched him with admiring eyes and just as he was about to take
                        her in his arms and descend with her she exclaimed:
                    "Wait a moment, I might lose the thought, I'll just jot it
                        down."
                    She took her note-book and pencil again and hurriedly made the following
                        entry: Sinewy, virile, lithe, hirsute, fearless, plucky,
                            bronzed, vigorous, lank, Greek-eyed, Roman-nosed, prompt, large-eared,
                            typical American. Good hero for dramatic, short, winning dialect story.
                            The magazines never refuse dialect stories.
                    "Now, if you please, Mr. Tolliver, I will go with you."
                    It was an Herculean labor, but Tolliver was a true hero. With one arm wound
                        around her, after the fashion of the serpent in the group of the Laocon, and
                        with her long yellow hair streaming in crinkled jets over his shoulder, he
                        slowly made his way down to the ground.
                    Meantime Mose, the dog, witli true canine sympathy and helpfulness, had torn
                        the bonnet into pathetic shreds, and was now lying half asleep under a tree
                        with a bit of ribbon in his teeth.
                    "Well, I'll jest berbeg parding Miss Crabb, but thet ther
                        dog hev et up yer head-gear," said Tolliver as he viewed with
                        dilating eyes the scattered fragments.
                    She comprehended her calamity with one swift glance, but she had caught a new
                        dialect phrase at the same time.
                    
                    "Head-gear, you call it, I believe?" she inquired, again
                        producing book and pencil.
                    "Beg parding all over, Miss Crabb, I meant bonnet," he
                        hurried to say.
                    "Oh, it's all right, I assure you," she replied,
                        writing rapidly, "it's a delightfully fresh and artistic
                        bit of special coloring."
                    Miss Crabb's clothes were badly torn and she looked as if she had
                        spent the night wretchedly, but with the exception of a few slight scratches
                        and bruises she was unhurt.
                    "Well jes' look a there, will ye!" exclaimed
                        Tolliver as he spied Mose. There was more of admiration than anger in his
                        voice. "Ef thet ther 'fernal dog haint got yer chin-ribbon
                        in his ole mouth, I'm er rooster!"
                    "Chin-ribbon," repeated Miss Crabb, making a note,
                        "I'm er rooster," and she smiled with intense
                        satisfaction. "You don't know, Mr. Tolliver, how much I am
                        indebted to you."
                    "Not a tall, Miss Crabb, not a tall. Don't mention of
                        it," he humbly said, "hit taint wo'th
                        talkin' erbout."
                    The morning was in full blow now and the cat-birds were singing sweetly down
                        the ravine. Overhead a patch of blue sky gleamed and burned with the true
                        empyrean glow. Far away, down in the valley by the little river, a breakfast
                        horn was blown with many a mellow flourish and a cool gentle breeze with dew
                        on its wings fanned Miss Crabb's sallow cheeks and rustled
                        Tolliver's tawny beard. At the sound of the horn Mose sprang to his
                        feet and  loped away with the bit of ribbon
                        fluttering from his mouth.
                
                
                    X.
                    IT was late in the forenoon before it was discovered at
                        Hotel Helicon that Miss Crabb was missing, and even then there arose so many
                        doubts about the tragic side of the event that before any organized search
                        for her had been begun, she returned, appearing upon the scene mounted
                        behind Wesley Tolliver on a small, thin, wiry mountain mule.
                    Crane and Peck each drew a deep, swift sigh of relief upon seeing her, for
                        the sense of guilt in their breasts had been horrible. They had by tacit
                        conspiracy prevented any examination of Eagle's Nest, for they
                        dreaded what might be disclosed. Of course they did not mean to hide the
                        awful fate of the poor girl, nor would they willingly have shifted the
                        weight of their dreadful responsibility, but it was all so much like a vivid
                        dream, so utterly strange and theatrical as it arose in their memories, that
                        they could not fully believe in it.
                    Miss Crabb looked quite ludicrous perched behind the tall mountaineer on such
                        a dwarfish mule. Especially comical was the effect of the sun-bonnet she
                        wore. She had accepted this article of apparel from Tolliver's
                        mother, and it appeared to clutch her head in its stiff folds and to
                        elongate her face by sheer compression.
                    Everybody laughed involuntarily, as much  tor
                        joy at her safe return as in response to the demand of her melodramatic
                        appearance.
                    "I've brung back yer runerway," said Tolliver
                        cheerily, as he helped the young woman to dismount. "She dim down
                        the mounting by one pertic'ler trail an' I jes'
                        fetch her up by t'other."
                    Miss Crabb spoke not a word, but ran into the hotel and up to her room
                        without glancing to the right or to the left. In her great haste the stiff
                        old sun-bonnet fell from her head and tumbled upon the ground.
                    "Wush ye'd jes' be evbligin' enough ter
                        han' thet there head-gear up ter me, Mister," said
                        Tolliver addressing Crane, who was standing near. "My mammy
                        'd raise er rampage ef I'd go back 'thout thet
                        ther bonnet."
                    With evident reluctance and disgust Crane gingerly took up the fallen article
                        and gave it to Tolliver, who thanked him so politely that all the onlooking
                        company felt a glow of admiration for the uncouth and yet rather handsome
                        cavalier.
                    "Thet gal," he observed, glancing in the direction that
                        Miss Crabb had gone, "she hev the winnin'est ways of any
                        gal I ever seed in my life. Ye orter seen 'er up inter thet there
                        bush a writin' in 'er book! She'd jes'
                        tumbled kerwhummox down the clift an' hed lodged ther' in
                        them cedars; but as she wer' a writin' when she started
                        ter fall w'y she struck a writin' an'
                        jes' kep' on at it same's if nothin' had
                        happened. She's game, thet ole gal air, I tell  ye! She don't propose for any little thing like
                        fallin' off'n a clift, ter interfere with w'at
                        she's a doin' at thet time, le' me say ter ye.
                        Lord but she wer' hongry, though, settin' up ther a
                        writin' all night, an' it 'd a done ye good to a
                        seen 'er eat thet chicken and them cake-biscuits my mammy cooked
                        for breakfast. She air a mos' alarmin' fine gal, for a
                        fac'."
                    At this point Dufour came out of the hotel, and when Tolliver saw him there
                        was an instantaneous change in the expression of the mountaineer's
                        face.
                    "Well I'll ber dorged!" he exclaimed with a smile
                        of delight, "ef ther' haint the same leetle John the
                        Baptis' what bapsonsed me down yer inter the branch! Give us yer
                        baby-spanker, ole feller! How air ye!"
                    Dufour cordially shook hands with him, laughing in a jolly way.
                    "Fust an' only man at ever ducked me, I'm here ter
                        say ter ye," Tolliver went on, in a cheery, half-bantering tone,
                        and sitting sidewise on the mule. "Ye mus' hev' a
                        sight o' muscle onto them duck legs and bantam arms o'
                        your'n."
                    He had the last word still in his mouth when the little beast suddenly put
                        down its head and flung high its hind feet.
                    "Woirp!" they heard him cry, as he whirled over in the air
                        and fell sprawling on the ground.
                    Dufour leaped forward to see if the man was 
                        hurt, but Tolliver was upright in an instant and grinning sheepishly.
                    "Thet's right, Bonus," he said to the mule which
                        stood quite still in its place, 'thet's right ole fel, try
                        ter ac' smart in comp'ny. Yer a beauty now, ain't
                        ye?"
                    He replaced his hat, which had fallen from his head, patted the mule
                        caressingly on the neck, then lightly vaulting to the old saddle-tree, he
                        waved his hand to the company and turning dashed at a gallop down the
                        mountain road, his spurs jingling merrily as he went.
                    "What a delicious character!"
                    "What precious dialect!"
                    "How typically American!"
                    "A veritable hero!"
                    Everybody at Hotel Helicon appeared to have been captivated by this droll
                        fellow.
                    "How like Tolstoi's lovely Russians he is!"
                        observed Miss Fidelia Arkwright, of Boston, a near-sighted maiden who did
                        translations and who doted on virile literature.
                    "When I was in Russia, I visited Tolstoi at his shoe-shop"
                        began Crane, but nobody appeared to hear him, so busy were all in making
                        notes for a dialect story.
                    "Tolstoi is the greatest fraud of the nineteenth century,"
                        said Peck. "That shoe-making pretence of his is about on a par with
                        his genious in genuineness and sincerity. His novels are great chunks of raw
                        filth, rank, garlic-garnished and hideous. We touch them only because the
                             French critics have called them savory. If
                        the Revue de Deux Mondes should praise a Turkish novel we
                        could not wait to read it before we joined in. Tolstoi is remarkable for two
                        things: his coarseness and his vulgar disregard of decency and truth. His
                        life and his writings are alike crammed with absurdities and contradictory
                        puerilities which would be laughable but for their evil
                        tendencies."
                    "But, my dear sir, how then do you account for the many editions of
                        Tolstoi's books?" inquired the historian, R. Hobbs Lucas.
                    "Just as I account for the editions of Cowper and Montgomery and
                        Wordsworth and even Shakespeare," responded Peck. "You put
                        a ten per cent, author's royalty on all those dear classics and see
                        how soon the publishers will quit uttering them! If Tolstoi's
                        Russian raw meat stories were put upon the market in a fair competition with
                        American novels the latter would beat them all hollow in selling."
                    "Oh, we ought to have international copyright," plaintively
                        exclaimed a dozen voices, and so the conversation ended.
                    Strangely enough, each one of the company in growing silent did so in order
                        to weigh certain suggestions arising out of Peck's assertions. It
                        was as if a score of semi-annual statements of copyright accounts were
                        fluttering in the breeze, and it was as if a score of wistful voices had
                        whispered:
                    "How in the world do publishers grow rich when the books they
                        publish never sell?"
                    
                    Perhaps Gaspard Dufour should be mentioned as appearing to have little
                        sympathy with Peck's theory or with the inward mutterings it had
                        engendered in the case of the rest of the company.
                    If there was any change in Dufour's face it was expressed in a smile
                        of intense self-satisfaction.
                
                
                    XI.
                    IT was, of course, not long that the newspapers of our
                        wide-awake country were kept from giving their readers very picturesque
                        glimpses of what was going on among the dwellers on Mt. Boab. The humorists
                        of the press, those charming fellows whose work is so enjoyable when
                        performed upon one's neighbor and so excruciating when turned
                        against oneself, saw the vulnerable points of the situation and let go a
                        broadside of ridicule that reverberated from the Atlantic to the Pacific. It
                        became a matter of daily amusement among the inmates of Hotel Helicon to
                        come together in little groups and discuss these humorous missiles fired
                        upoa them from California, Texas, Arkansas and Wisconsin, from Brooklyn,
                        Pittsburgh, Atlanta, and Oil-City, Detroit and,but from everywhere, indeed.
                    When it came to Miss Crabb's adventure, every humorist excelled
                        himself in descriptive smartness and in cunning turns of ironical phrasing.
                        The head-line experts did telling work in the same connection. All this was
                             perfectly understood and enjoyed at home,
                        out foreigners, especially the English, stubbornly insisted upon viewing it
                        as the high-water mark of American refinement and culture.
                    When that genial periodical, the Smartsburgh Bulldozer,
                        announced with due gravity that Miss Crabb, a Western journalist, had leaped
                        from the top of Mt. Boab to the valley below, and had been caught in the
                        arms of a stalwart moonshiner, where she safely reposed, etc., the London
                            Times copied the paragraph and made it a text for a
                        heavy editorial upon the barbaric influences of Republican institutions, to
                        which the American Minister felt bound to advert in acharacteristic
                        after-dinner speech at a London club. So humorous, however, ewre his remarks
                        that he was understood to be vigorously in earnest, and the result was
                        perfect confirmation of the old world's opinion as to the
                        rudimentary character of our national culture.
                    Meantime Hotel Helicon continued to be the scene of varied if not startling
                        incidents. In their search for local color and picturesque material, the
                        litterateurs invaded every nook and corner of the region upon and round
                        about Mt. Boab, sketching, making notes, recording suggestions, studying
                        dialect, and filling their minds with the uncouth peculiarities of the
                        mountain folk.
                    "It has come to this," grumbled Peck, "that
                        American literature, its fiction I mean, is founded on dialect drivel and
                        vulgar yawp. Look at our magazines: four-fifths of their  short stories are full of negro talk, or
                        cracker linge, or mountain jibberish, or New England farm yawp, or Hoosier
                        dialect. It is horribly humiliating. It actually makes foreigners think that
                        we are a nation of green-horns. Why, a day or two ago I had occasion to
                        consult the article on American literature in the Encyclopdia Britannica and
                        therein I was told in one breath how great a writer and how truly American
                        Mr. Lowell is, and in the next breath I was informed that a poem beginning
                        with the verse, 'Under the yaller pines I house' is one of
                        his master-pieces! Do you see? Do you catch the drift of the
                        Englishman's argument? To be truly great, as an
                            American, one must be surpassingly vulgar, even in
                        poetry!"
                    This off-hand shower of critical observation had a little effect upon the
                        minds of Peck's hearers as a summer rain has on the backs of a
                        flock of ducks. They even grew more vehement in their pursuit of local
                        color.
                    "When I was spending a month at Rockledge castle with Lord
                        Knownaught," said Crane, "his lordship frequently
                        suggested that I should make a poem on the life of Jesse Janies."
                    "Well, why didn't you do it?" inquired Miss Crabb
                        with a ring of impatience in her voice, "if you had you might have
                        made a hit. You might have attracted some attention."
                    Dufour laughed heartily, as if he had caught some occult humor from the young
                        woman's words.
                    
                    "I did write it," said Crane retrospective-, "and
                        sent it to George Dunkirk & Co."
                    "Well?" sighed Miss Crabb with intense interest.
                    "Well," replied Crane, "they rejected the MS.
                        without reading it."
                    Again Dufour laughed, as if at a good joke.
                    "George Dunkirk & Co.!" cried Guilford Ferris, the
                        romancer, "George Dunkirk & Co.! They are thieves. They
                        have been making false reports on copyright to me for five years or
                        more!"
                    Dufour chuckled as if his jaws would fall off, and finally with a red face
                        and gleaming, humorous eyes got up from the chair he was filling on the
                        veranda, and went up to his room.
                    The rest of the company looked at one another inquiringly.
                    "Who is he, anyhow?" demanded Peck.
                    "That's just my query," said Ferris.
                    "Nobody in the house knows anything definite about him,"
                        remarked R. Hobbs Lucas. "And yet he evidently is a distinguished
                        person, and his name haunts me."
                    "So it does me," said Miss Moyne.
                    "I tell you he's a newspaper reporter. His cheek proves
                        that," remarked Peck.
                    Miss Crabb made a note, her own cheek flaming. "I presume you call
                        that humor," she observed, "it's about like New
                        York's best efforts. In the West reporters are respectable
                        people."
                    
                    "I beg pardon," Peck said hastily, "I did not mean
                        to insinuate that anybody is not respectable. Everybody is eminently
                        respectable if I speak of them. I never trouble myself with the other
                        kind."
                    "Well, I don't believe that Mr. Dufour is a reporter at
                        all," replied Miss Crabb, with emphasis, "for
                        he's not inquisitive, he don't make notes, and he
                        don't appear to be writing any."
                    "In my opinion he's a realista genuine analytical,
                        motive-dissecting, commonplace-recording, international novelist in said
                        Ferris.
                    "Oh!"
                    "Ah!"
                    "Dear me!"
                    "But who?"
                    "It may be Arthur Selby himself, incog. Who knows?"
                    "Humph!" growled Crane with a lofty scrowl, "I
                        should think I ought to know Selby. I drank wine with him at"
                    His remark was out short by the arrival of the mail and the general scramble
                        that followed.
                    Upon this occasion the general number of newspapers that fell to the hand of
                        each guest was much greater than usual, and it was soon discovered that Miss
                        Crabb's latest letter had been forwarded to a
                        "syndicate" and was appearing simultaneously in ninety odd
                        different journals.
                    No piece of composition ever was more stunningly realistic or more
                        impartially, nay, abjectly truthful than was that letter. It gave  a minute account of the quarrel between Peck
                        and Crane over their attentions to Miss Moyne, the fight, Miss
                        Crabb's fall, the subsequent adventures and all the hotel gossip of
                        every sort. It was personal to the last degree, but it was not in the
                        slightest libelous. No person could say that any untruth had been told, or
                        even that ant tinge of false-coloring had been laid upon the facts as
                        recorded; and yet how merciless!
                    Of course Miss Crabb's name did not appear with the article, save as
                        one of its subjects, and she saw at once that she had better guard her
                        secret.
                    That was a breeze which rustled through Hotel Helicon. Everybody was
                        supremely indignant; but there was no clue to the traitor who had thus
                        betrayed everybody's secrets. It would be absurd to suppose that
                        Miss Crabb was not suspected at once, on account of her constant and
                        superfluous show of note-making, still there were others who might be
                        guilty. Crane and Peck were indignant, the former especially ready to resent
                        to the death any allusion to the details of the duel. Miss Moyne with the
                        quick insight of a clever and gifted young woman, comprehended the situation
                        in its general terms and was vexed as much as amused. The whole thing to her
                        mind the appearance of a melodramatic, broadly sensational sketch, in which
                        she had played the part of the innocent, unconscious, but all-powerful
                        heroine. Indeed the newspaper account placed 
                        her in this unpleasant attitude before a million readers.
                    "A lucky affair for you, Miss Moyne," said Dufour to her, a
                        few days later, "you cannot over-reckon the boom it will give to
                        your latest book. You may expect a pretty round sum with your next copyright
                        statement."
                    He spoke with the voice and air of one who knew how to read the signs of the
                        day.
                    "But the ridiculous idea of having all this stuff about me going the
                        rounds of the newspapers!" she responded, her beautiful patrician
                        face showing just a hint of color.
                    "Don't care for it a moment," said Dufour,
                        "it will not hurt you."
                    "The thought of having that hideous picture in all the patent inside
                        pages of the cheap press, with my name under it, en toutes
                            lettres, andwhy it is horrible!" she went on, with
                        trembling lips.
                    Dufour smiled upon her, as if indulgently, a curious, tender gleam in his
                        eyes.
                    "Wait," he said, "and don't allow it to
                        trouble you. The world discriminates pretty well, after all. It will not
                        hurt you. It's a mighty boom for you."
                    She looked at him with a sudden flash in her cheeks and eyes, and exclaimed
                        almost vehemently: "I will not permit it! They shall not do it. I
                        cannot bear to be treated as ifas if I were a theatrical persona variety
                        actress!"
                    "My dear Miss Moyne," he hurriedly said, his own face
                        showing a tinge of embarrassment, 
                        "you are taking a wrong point of view, indeed you are.
                        "Wait till you see the out-come." His tone was humble and
                        apologetic as he continued"My opinion is that this very thing will
                        quadruple the sales of your book."
                    "I don't want them quadrupled," she cried,
                        "just look at that front hair and that nose!" She held up
                        a newspaper for him to inspect a picture of herself, a miserable, distorted
                        thing. "It is absolutely disgraceful. My dresses never fit like
                        that, and who ever saw me with a man's collar on!"
                    Tears were in her beautiful eyes.
                    Dufour consoled her as best he could, though he could not resist the
                        temptation to suggest that even a caricature of her face was sure to have in
                        it the fascination of genuine loveliness, a suggestion which was phrased
                        with consummate art and received with an appearance of innocence that was
                        beyond all art.
                
                
                    XII.
                    SUMMER on Mt. Boab was much like summer on any other
                        mountain, and life at Hotel Helicon was very like life at any other mountain
                        hotel, save that a certain specialization due to the influence of literature
                        and art was apparent in the present instance, giving to the house, the
                        landscape and the intercourse of the guests a peculiar tinge, so to say, of
                        self-consciousness and artificiality. Not that these authors, thus drawn
                        together by the grace of a man grown suddenly rich, were very different from
                        men and  women of other lines in life, the real
                        peculiarity sprang out of the obligation by which every one felt bound to
                        make the most, in aprofessional way, of the situation and the environment.
                        Perhaps there was not a soul under the broad roof of Hotel Helicon, servants
                        excepted, that did not secrete in its substance the material for a novel, a
                        poem, or an essay which was to brim with the local life and flash with the
                        local color of the region of Mt. Boab. Yes, there appeared to be one
                        exception. Dufour constantly expressed a contempt for the mountaineers and
                        their country.
                    "To be sure," he conceded, "to be sure there is a
                        demand for dialect stories, and I suppose that they must be written; but for
                        my part I cannot see why we Americans must stultify ourselves in the eyes of
                        all the world by flooding our magazines, newspapers and books with American
                        literature of a high order. There is some excuse for a quasi-negro
                        literature, and even the Creoles might have a niche set apart for them, but
                        dialect, on the whole, is growing to be a literary bore."
                    "But don't you think," said Miss Crabb, drawing
                        her chin under, and projecting her upper teeth to such a degree that
                        anything like realistic description would appear brutal,
                        "don't you think, Mr. Dufour, that Mr. Tolliver would make
                        a great character in a mountain romance?"
                    "No. There is nothing great in a clown, as  such," he promptly answered. "If Tolliver is
                        great he would be great without his jargon."
                    "Yes," she admitted, "but the picturesqueness, the
                        color, the contrast, you know, would be gone. Now Craddock"
                    "Craddock is excellent, so long as there is but one Craddock, but
                        when there are some dozens of him it is different," said Dufour
                        "and it is the process of multiplication that I object to.
                        There's Cable, who is no longer a genius of one species. The
                        writers of Creole stories are swarming by the score, and, poor old Uncle
                        Remus- everybody writes negro dialect now. Literary claim-jumpers are
                        utterly conscienceless. The book market will soon be utterly
                        ruined."
                    Miss Crabb puffed out her lean sallow cheeks and sighed heavily.
                    "I had hoped," she said, "to get my novel on the
                        market before this, but I have not yet found a publisher to suit
                        me."
                    She winced inwardly at this way of expressing the fact that every publisher,
                        high and low, far and near, had declined her MS. out of hand; but she could
                        not say the awful truth in its simpliest terms, while speaking to one so
                        prosperous as Dufour. She felt that she must at all hazards preserve a
                        reasonable show of literary independence. Crane came to her aid.
                    "One publisher is just as good as another," he said almost
                        savagely. "They are all thieves. They report every book a failure,
                        save those they own outright, and yet they all get rich. I shall publish for
                        myself my next volume."
                    
                    Dufour smiled grimly and turned away. It was rather monotonous, this
                        iteration and reiteration of so grave a charge against the moral character
                        of publishers, and this threat of Crane's to become his own
                        publisher was a bit of unconscious and therefore irresistible humor.
                    "It's too pathetic to be laughed at," Dufour
                        thought, as he strolled along to where Miss Moyne sat under a tree,
                        "but that Kentuckian actually thinks himself a poet!"
                    With all his good nature and kind heartedness, Dufour could be prejudiced,
                        and he drew the line at what he called the "prevailing tendency
                        toward boastful prevarication among Kentucky gentlemen."
                    As he walked away he heard Crane saying:
                    "George Dunkirk & Co. have stolen at least twenty thousand
                        dollars in royalties from me during the past three years."
                    It was the voice of Ferris that made interrogative response:
                    "Is Dunkirk your publisher?"
                    "Yes, or rather my robber."
                    "Glad of it, misery loves company."
                    Dufour half turned about and cast a quick glance at the speakers. He did not
                        say anything, however, but resumed his progress toward Miss Moyne, who had
                        just been joined by Mrs. Nancy Jones Black, a stoutish and oldish woman very
                        famous on account of having assumed much and done little. Mrs. Nancy Jones
                        Black was from Boston. She was president of the Woman's Antiquarian
                        Club, of the Ladies' Greek 
                        Association, of The Sappho Patriotic Club, of the Newport Fashionable
                        Near-sighted Club for the study of Esoteric Transcendentalism, and it may
                        not be catalogued how many more societies and clubs. She was a great poet
                        who had never written any great poem, a great essayist whom publishers and
                        editors avoided, whom critics regarded as below mediocrity, but of whom
                        everybody stood in breathless awe, and she was an authority in many literary
                        and philosophical fields of which she really knew absolutely nothing. She
                        was a reformer and a person of influence who had made a large number of her
                        kinsfolk famous as poets and novelists without any apparent relevancy
                        between the fame and the literary work done. If your name were Jones and you
                        could trace out your relationship to Mrs. Nancy Jones Black and could get
                        Mrs. Nancy Jones Black interested in your behalf, you could write four
                        novels a year with great profit ever afterward.
                    As Dufour approached he heard Miss Moyne say:
                    "I publish my poor little works with George Dunkirk & Co.
                        and the firm has been very kind to me. I feel great encouragement, but I
                        don't see how I can bear this horrible newspaper familiarity and
                        vulgarity."
                    "My dear child," said Mrs. Nancy Jones Black, placing her
                        plump, motherly hand on the young woman's arm, "you must
                        not appear to notice it. Do as did my daughter Lois when they assailed her
                        first little novel with sugar-plum  praise.
                        Why, when it began to leak out that Lois was the author of A
                            Sea-Side Symphony the poor girl was almost smothered with praise.
                        Of course I had to take the matter in hand and under my advice Lois went
                        abroad for six months. When she returned she found herself famous."
                    "Talking shop?" inquired Dufour, accepting the offer of a
                        place on the bench beside Mrs. Black.
                    "Yes," said she, with a comprehensive wave of her hand,
                        "I am taking Miss Moyne under my wing, so to say, and am offering
                        her the comfort of my experience. She is a genius whom it doesn't
                        spoil to praise. She's going to be the next sensation in the
                        East."
                    "I suggested as much to her," said Dufour. "She is
                        already on a strong wave, but she must try and avoid being refractory, you
                        know." He said this in a straightforward, business way, but his
                        voice was touched with a certain sort of admirable tenderness.
                    Miss Moyne was looking out over the deep, hazy valley, her cheeks still warm
                        with the thought of that newspaper portrait with its shabby clothes and
                        towsled bangs. What was fame, bought at such a price! She bridled a little,
                        but did not turn her head as she said:
                    "I am not refractory, I am indignant, and I have a right to be. They
                        cannot justify ths liberty they have taken, besides I will not accept
                        notorietyI"
                    "There, now, dear, that is what Lois said, and  Milton John Jones, my nephew, was at first bound that he
                        wouldn't let Tom, my brother, advertise him; but he soon saw his
                        way clear, I assure you, and now he publishes four serials at once. Be
                        prudent, dear, be prudent."
                    "But the idea of picturing me with great barbaric rings in my ears
                        and with a corkscrew curl on each side and"
                    Dufour interrupted her with a laugh almost hearty enough to be called a
                        guffaw, and Mrs. Black smiled indulgently as if at a clever child which must
                        be led, not driven.
                    "Being conscious that you really are stylish and beautiful, you
                        needn't care for the picture," said Dufour, in a tone of
                        sturdy sincerity.
                    "There is nothing so effective as a foil," added Mrs.
                        Black.
                    Miss Moyne arose and with her pretty chin slightly elevated walked away.
                    "How beautiful she is!" exclaimed Dufour, gazing after her,
                        "and I am delighted to know that you are taking an interest in
                        her."
                    Mrs. Black smiled complacently, and with a bland sidewise glance at him,
                        remarked:
                    "Yes," said he, with self-satisfied obtuseness,
                        "yes, she is magnetic, she is a genuine genius."
                    "Precisely, she stirs one's heart strangely,"
                        replied Mrs. Black.
                    "Yes, I have noted that; it's very remarkable."
                    
                    "You should speak of it to her at the first opportunity."
                    Dufour started a little, flushed and finally laughed as one does who
                        discovers a bit of clever and harmless treachery.
                    "If I only dared," he presently said, with something very
                        like fervor in his tone. "If I only dared."
                    Mrs. Black looked at him a moment, as if measuring in her mind his degree of
                        worthiness, then with a wave of her hand she said:
                    "Never do you dare to dare. Mr. Crane stands right in your
                        path."
                    Dufour leaped to his feet with the nimbleness and dangerously celerity of a
                        tiger.
                    "Crane!" he exclaimed with a world of contempt in his
                        voice, "If he" but lie stopped short and laughed at
                        himself.
                    Mrs. Black looked at him with a patronizing expression in her eyes.
                    "Leave it to me," she said, in her most insinuating
                    tone.
                
                
                    XIII.
                    CEASE tried not to show the bitterness he felt as he saw
                        his hope of winning the favor of Miss Moyne fading rapidly out, but now and
                        again a cloud of irresistible melancholy fell upon him.
                    At such times it was his habit to lean upon the new fence that circumscribed
                        Hotel Helicon and dreamily smoke a cigar. He felt a blind desire to
                        assassinate somebody, if he could only know who. Of course not Peck, for
                        Peck, too,  was disconsolate, but somebody,
                        anybody who would claim the place of a successful rival.
                    One morning while he stood thus regaling himself with his tobacco and his
                        misery, Tolliver rode up, on a handsome horse this time, and, lifting his
                        broad hat, bowed picturesquely and said:
                    "Good mornin,' Kyernel, how're ye this
                        mornin'?"
                    "Good morning," growled Crane.
                    Tolliver looked off over the valley and up at the sky which was flecked with
                        tags of fleece-cloud.
                    "Hit look like hit mought rain in er day er two," he
                        remarked.
                    "Yes, I don't know, quite likely," said Crane,
                        gazing evasively in another direction.
                    "Ever'body's well, I s'pose, up
                        ther' at the tavern?" inquired Tolliver.
                    "I believe so," was the cold answer.
                    Tolliver leaned over the pommel of his saddle-tree and combed his
                        horse's mane with his sinewy fingers. Meantime the expression in
                        his face was one of exceeding embarrassment blent with cunning.
                    "Kyernel, c'u'd ye do a feller a leetle yerrent
                        what's of importance?" he asked with peculiar faltering.
                    "Do what?" inquired Crane lifting his eyebrows and turning
                        the cigar in his mouth.
                    "Jest a leetle frien'ly job o' kindness,"
                        said Tolliver, "jest ter please ask tliet young leddythet Miss
                        Crabb 'at I fotch up yer on er mule 
                        tother day, ye know; well, jest ax her for me ef I moaghtn't come
                        in an' see 'er on pertic'lar an'
                        pressin' business, ef ye please, sir."
                    By this time the mountaineer's embarrassment had become painfully
                        apparent. Any good judge of human nature could have seen at once that he was
                        almost overcome with the burden and worry of the matter in hand. His cheeks
                        were pale and his eyes appeared to be fading into utter vacancy of
                        expression. Crane told him that there was no need to be particularly formal,
                        that if he would go in and ask for Miss Crabb she would see him in the
                        parlor.
                    "But, Kyernel, hit's er private, sort er confidential
                        confab 'at I must hev wi' 'er,
                        an'"
                    "Oh, well, that's all right, you'll not be
                        interrupted in the parlor."
                    "Air ye pine blank shore of it, Kyernel?"
                    "Certainly."
                    "Dead shore?"
                    "Quite, I assure you."
                    Crane had become interested in Tolliver's affair, whatever it might
                        be. He could not keep from sharing the man's evident intensity of
                        mood, and all the time he was wondering what the matter could be. Certainly
                        no common-place subject could so affect a man of iron like Tolliver. The
                        poet's lively imagination was all aglow over the mystery, but it
                        could not formulate any reasonable theory of explanation.
                    Miss Crabb appeared in the parlor promptly and met Tolliver with a cordiality
                        that, instead  of reassuring him, threw him
                        into another fit of embarrassment from which he at first made no effort to
                        recover. His wide-brimmed hat, as he twirled it on his knees, quivered
                        convulsively in accord with the ague of excitement with which his whole
                        frame was shaking. He made certain soundless movements with his lips, as if
                        muttering to himself.
                    Miss Crabb at first did not notice his confusion, and went on talking
                        rapidly, reiterating thanks for the kindness he had shown her in her recent
                        mishap, and managing to put into her voice some tones that to him sounded
                        very tender and sweet.
                    "You don't knowyou can't imagine, Mr. Tolliver,
                        what I suffered during that awful night," she said, turning her
                        head to one side and drawing her chin under until it almost disappeared in
                        the lace at her throat. "It was horrible."
                    Tolliver looked at her helplessly, his mouth open, his eyes dull and sunken.
                    "How did you happen to discover me up there, anyway, Mr.
                        Tolliver?" she demanded, leaning toward him and laughing a little.
                    "The dog he treed ye, an' then I seed ye settin'
                        up ther' er writin' away," he manged to say a
                        wave of relief passing over his face at the sound of his own voice.
                    "It was perfectly ridiculous, perfectly preposterous," she
                        exclaimed, "but I'm mighty thankful that I was not
                        hurt."
                    "Yes, well ye mought be, Miss Crabb," he  stammered out. "Wonder ye
                        wasn't scrunched inter pieces an' scattered all eround
                        ther'."
                    She slipped out her book, took a pencil from over her ear and made a note.
                    Tolliver eyed her dolefully. "How do you spell scrunched, Mr.
                        Tolliver, in your dialect?" she paused to inquire.
                    His jaw fell a little lower for a moment, then he made an effort:
                    "Sqru" he paused and shook his head, "Sqkno
                        thet's not hitskqrdorg ef I ken spell thet wordbegging yer parding,
                        hit air 'tirely too hard for me." He settled so low in his
                        chair that his knees appeared almost as high as his head.
                    "All right," she cheerily exclaimed, "I can get it
                        phonetically. It's a new word. I don't think either
                        Craddock or Johnson uses it, it's valuable."
                    There was a silence during which Miss Crabb thoughtfully drummed on her
                        projecting front teeth with the end of her pencil.
                    Tolliver nerved himself and said:
                    "Miss Crabb II, well, ye know, Ithat is, begging yer parding, but I
                        hev something' I want er say ter ye, ef ye please." He
                        glanced furtively around, as if suspecting that some person lay secreted
                        among the curtains of a bay window hard by. And indeed, Dufour was there,
                        lightly indulging in a morning nap, while the mountain breeze flowed over
                        him. He was in a deep bamboo chair behind those very curtains.
                    
                    "Oh, certainly, certainly, Mr. Tolliver, go on, I shall be
                        delighted, charmed indeed, to hear what you have to say," Miss
                        Crabb responded, turning a fresh leaf of her note-book and putting on a
                        hopeful look.
                    "I hope ye'll stick ter thet after I've done said
                        it ter ye," he proceeded to say, "but dorg on me ef I know
                        how ter begin sayin' it."
                    "Oh, just go right on, it's all right; I assure you, Mr.
                        Tolliver, I am very anxious to hear."
                    "Mebbe ye air, I don't dispute yer word, but I feel mighty
                        onery all the same."
                    "Onery is a Western word," mused Miss Crabb, making a note.
                    "Proceed, Mr. Tolliver," she continued after a pause,
                        "proceed, I am listening with great interest."
                    "What I'm ergwine ter state ter ye mought mek ye mad, but
                        hit can't be holp, I jest hev ter say itI air jest erbleeged ter
                        say it."
                    His voice was husky and he was assuming a tragic air. Miss Crabb felt a
                        strange thrill creep throughout her frame as a sudden suspicion seemed to
                        leap back and forth between her heart and her brain.
                    "No, I assure you that I could not be angry with you, Mr. Tolliver,
                        under any circumstances," she murmured, "you have been so
                        very kind to me."
                    "Hit air awful confusin' an' hit mek a feller feel
                        smaller 'n a mouse ter speak it right ont, but then hit air no
                        foolishness, hit air pine blank business."
                    
                    "Of course," said Miss Crabb pensively, "of course
                        you feel some embarrassment."
                    He hitched himself up in his chair and crossed his legs.
                    "Ef ye don't like w'at I say, w'y I
                        won't blame ye a bit. I feel jest as if I wer a doin'
                        somethin' 'at I hadn't orter do, but my mammy she
                        say I must, an' that do everlastin'ly settle it."
                    "Yes, your mother's advice is always safe."
                    "Safe, I shed say so! Hit's mighty onsafe fer me not ter
                        foller it, I kin tell ye. She'd thump my old gourd fer me in
                        ermazin' style ef I didn't."
                    "Thump my old gourd," repeated Miss Crabb, making a note.
                        "Go on, Mr. Tolliver, please."
                    "S'pose I mought as well, seein' 'at it
                        has ter be said." He paused, faltered, and then proceeded:
                        "Well, beggin' yer parding, Miss Crabb, but ever sence ye
                        wer' down ther' ter we all's cabin,
                        hit's been a worryin' my mammy and me, an' we
                        hev' talked it all over an' over."
                    "Yes," sighed Miss Crabb.
                    "Hit's not the cost of them beads, Miss Crabb, they air not
                        wo'th much, but they was guv ter mammy by her aunt Mandy Ann Bobus,
                        an' she feel like she jest can't give 'em
                        up."
                    Miss Crabb looked puzzled.
                    "Ef ye'll jest erblige me an' hand them beads over
                        ter me, I'll never say er wo'd ter nobody ner
                        nothin."
                    "Mr. Tolliver, what in the world do you  mean?" cried Miss Crabb, rising and standing before him with a
                        face that flamed with sudden anger.
                    "Ye mought er tuck 'em kinder accidentally, ye
                        know," he suggested in a conciliatory tone, rising also.
                    "Mr Tolliver!" she almost screamed.
                    "Ther' now, be still, er ye'll let
                        ever'body know all erbout it," he half whispered.
                        "Hit'd be disgraceful."
                    "Mr. Tolliver!"
                    "Sh-h-h! They'll hear ye!"
                    "Get right out of this room, you
                    Just then Dufour, who had been slowly aroused from his nap and who while yet
                        half asleep had overheard much of what had been said, stepped forth from
                        behind the curtains and stood looking from one to the other of the excited
                        actors in the little drama.
                    "What's up?" he, demanded bluntly.
                    "He's accusing me of stealing beads!" cried Miss
                        Crabb. "He's insulting me!"
                    "What!" exclaimed Dufour, glaring at Tolliver.
                    "I feel mighty onery a doin' it," said Tolliver,
                        "but hit air pine blank mighty suspicious, Kyernel, hit air for a
                        fac'."
                    Dufour looked as if he hardly knew which he should do, laugh boisterously, or
                        fling Tolliver out of the window, but he quickly pulled himself together and
                        said calmly:
                    "You are wrong, sir, and you must apologize."
                    
                    "Certingly, certingly," said Tolliver, "thet air
                        jest what I air a doin'. I beg parding er thousan' times
                        fer sayin' what I hev, but, Kyernel, hit air a Lor' a
                        mighty's truth, all the same, le' me tell ye. Them beads
                        waa ther' w'en she come, an' they was gone
                        w'en she was gone, an'"
                    "Stop that! Take back those words or I'll throw
                        you"
                    Dufour took a step towards Tolliver, but stopped suddenly when the latter
                        drew a huge revolver with one hand and a long crooked bowie-knife with the
                        other and said:
                    "No yer don't, Kyernel, not by er good deal. Jest ye open
                        yer bread-trap ergain an' I'll jest clean up this ole
                        shanty in erbout two minutes."
                    It may not be inferred how this bit of dramatic experience would have ended
                        had not a lean, wizzen faced mountain lad rushed in just then with a
                        three-cornered piece of paper in his hand upon which was scrawled the
                        following message:
                    "I hev fown them beeds. They wus in mi terbacker bag."
                    Tolliver read this and wilted.
                    The boy was panting and almost exhausted. He had run all the way up the
                        mountain from the Tolliver cabin.
                    "Yer mammy say kum home," he gasped.
                    "Hit air jest as I 'spected," said Tolliver.
                        "Mammy hev made a pine blank eejit of me again." He handed
                        the message to Dufour as  he spoke. His pistol
                        and knife had disappeared.
                    A full explanation followed, and at the end of a half-hour Tolliver went away
                        crest-fallen but happy.
                    As for Miss Crabb she had made a number of valuable dialect notes.
                    Dufour promised not to let the rest of the guests know what had just happened
                        in the parlor.
                
                
                    XIV.
                    "LITERATURE-MAKING has not yet taken the rank of
                        a profession, but of late the world has modified its opinion as to the
                        ability of literary people to drive a close bargain, or to manage financial
                        affairs with success. Many women and some men have shown that it is possible
                        for a vivid imagination and a brilliant style in writing to go close along
                        with a practical judgment and a fair share of selfish shrewdness in matters
                        of bargain and sale. Still, after all, it remains true that a strong
                        majority of literary people are of the Micawber genus, with great faith in
                        what is to turn up, always nicely balancing themselves on the extreme verge
                        of expectancy and gazing over into the promise-land of fame and fortune with
                        pathetically hopeful, yet awfully hollow eyes. Indeed there is no species of
                        gambling more uncertain in its results or more irresistibly fascinating to
                        its victims than literary gambling. Day after day, month after month, year
                        after year, the  deluded, enthusiastic, ever
                        defeated but never discouraged writer plies his pen, besieges the publishers
                        and editors, receives their rebuffs, rough or smooth, takes back his
                        declined manuscripts, tries it over and over, sweats, fumes, execrates,
                        coaxes, bullies, raves, re-writes, takes a new nom de
                        plume and new courage, goes on and on to the end. Here or there rumor
                        goes that some fortunate literator has turned the right card and has drawn a
                        great prize; this rumor, never quite authentic, is enough tore-invigorate
                        all the fainting scribblers and to entice new victims into the gilded casino
                        of the Cadmean vice. The man who manipulates the literary machine is the
                        publisher, that invisible person who usually grows rich upon the profits of
                        unsuccessful books. He it is who inveigles the infatuated young novelist,
                        essayist, or poet, into the beautiful bunco-den of the book business and
                        there fastens him and holds him as long as he will not squeal; but at the
                        first note of remonstrance he kicks him out and fills his place with a fresh
                        victim. The literary Micawber, however, does not despair. He may be a little
                        silly from the effect of the summersault to which the publisher's
                        boot has treated him, but after a distraught look about him he gets up,
                        brushes the dust off his seedy clothes and goes directly back into the den
                        again with another manuscript under his arm and with a feverish faith
                        burning in his deep-set eyes. What serene and beautiful courage, by the way,
                        have the literary women! Of course the monster who presides  at the publisher's desk cannot be as
                        brutal to her as he is to men, but he manipulates her copyright statements
                        all the same, so that her book never passes the line of fifteen hundred
                        copies sold. How can we ever account for a woman who has written forty-three
                        novels under such circumstances and has died, finally, a devout Christian
                        and a staunch friend of her publisher? Poor thing! up to the hour of her
                        demise, white-haired, wrinkled, over-worked, nervous and semi-paralytic, she
                        nursed the rosy hope that to-morrow, or at the very latest, the day after
                        to-morrow, the reward of all her self-devotion would come to her in the form
                        of a liberal copyright statement from her long-suffering and charitable
                        publisher.
                    "Out in the West they have a disease called milk-sickness, an awful
                        malady, of which everybody stands in deadly terror, but which nobody has
                        ever seen. If you set out to find a case of milk-sickness it is like
                        following a will-o'-the-wisp, it is always just a
                        little way farther on, over in the next settlement; you never find it. The
                        really successful author in America is, like the milk-sickness, never
                        visible, except on the remote horizon. You hear much of him, but you never
                        have the pleasure of shaking his cunning right hand. The fact is, he is a
                        myth. On the other hand, however, the American cities are full of successful
                        publishers who have become millionaires upon the profits of books which have
                        starved their authors. Of course this appears to be a paradox, but I suppose
                        that  it can be explained by the rule of profit
                        and loss. The author's loss is the publisher's
                        profit."
                    The foregoing is, in substance, the opening part of an address delivered by
                        Ferris before the assembled guests of Hotel Helicon.
                    Mrs. Nancy Jones Black presided at the meeting; indeed she always presided at
                        meetings. On this occasion, which was informal and impromptu, Ferris was in
                        excellent mood for speaking, as he just had been notified by a letter from
                        Dunkirk & Co. that he was expected to pay in advance for the plates
                        of his new romance, A Mysterious Missive, and that a
                        personal check would not be accepteda draft on New York must be sent
                        forthwith. Although Ferris was a thoroughly good fellow, who cared nothing
                        for money as money, this demand for a sum the half of which lie could not
                        command if his life were at stake, hit him like a bullet-stroke. A chance to
                        talk off the soreness of the wound was accepted with avidity. He felt guilty
                        of a meanness, it is true, in thus stirring up old troubles and opening
                        afresh ancient hurts in the breasts of his listening friends; but the relief
                        to him was so great that he could not forego it. "The American
                        publisher," he went on, "proclaims himself a fraud by
                        demanding of the author a contract which places the author's
                        business wholly in the control of the publisher. I take it that publishers
                        are just as honest and just as dishonest, as any other class of respectable
                        men. You know and I know, that, as a rule, the man who trusts his business
                        entirely to others will,  in the long run, be
                        robbed. Administrators of estates rob the heirs, in two-thirds of the
                        instances, as every probate lawyer well knows. Every merchant has to treat
                        his clerks and salesmen as if they were thieves, or if be do not they will
                        become thieves. The government has to appoint bank examiners to watch the
                        bankers, and yet they steal. The Indian agents steal from the government.
                        Senators steal, aldermen steal, Wall street men steal from one another and
                        from everybody else. Canada is overflowing with men who have betrayed and
                        robbed those who trusted their business with them. Evan clergymen (that
                        poorly paid and much, abused class) now and again fall before the temptation
                        offered by the demon of manipulated returns of trust funds. The fact is, one
                        may feel perfectly safe in saying that in regard to all the professions,
                        trades, and occupations, there is absolutely no safety in trusting
                        one's affairs wholly in the hands of another. (Great applause).
                        Even your milkman waters the milk and the dairyman sells you butter that
                        never was in a churn. If you neglect to keep a pass-book your grocer runs up
                        the bill to(a great rustle, and some excited whispering) up to something
                        enormous. Of course it is not everybody that is dishonest, bat experience
                        shows that if a man has the temptation to defraud his customers constantly
                        before him, with absolutely no need to fear detection, he will soon reason
                        himself into believing it his  right to have
                        the lion's share of all that goes into his hands.
                    "Now isn't it strange, in view of the premises, that nobody
                        ever heard of such a thing as a publisher being convicted of making false
                        returns? Is it possible that the business of book-publishing is so pure and
                        good of itself that it attracts to it none but perfect men? (Great
                        applause). Publishers do fail financially once in a while, but their books
                        of accounts invariably show that just eleven hundred and forty copies of
                        each copyrighted book on their lists have been sold to date, no more, no
                        less. (Suppressed applause). Nobody ever saw cleaner or better balanced
                        books of accounts than those kept by the publishers. They foot up correctly
                        to a cent. Indeed it would be a very strange thing if a man
                        couldn't make books balance under such circumstances! (Prolonged
                        hand-clapping). I am rather poor at double entry, but I fancy I could make a
                        credit of eleven hundred and forty copies sold, so as to have it show up all
                        right. (Cheers). I must not lose my head in speaking on this subject, for I
                        cannot permit you to misunderstand my motive. So long as authors submit to
                        the per centum method of publication, so long they will be the prey of the
                        publishers. The only method by which justice can be assured to both author
                        and publisher is the cash-sale method. If every author in America would
                        refuse to let his manuscript go out of hand before he had received the cash
                        value for it, the trade would  soon adjust
                        itself properly. In that case the author's reputation would be his
                        own property. So soon as he had made an audience his manuscripts would
                        command a certain price. If one publisher would not pay enough for it
                        another would. As the method now is, it makes little difference whether the
                        author have a reputation or not. Indeed most publishers prefer to publish
                        the novels, for example, of clever tyros, because these fledglings are so
                        proud of seeing themselves in print that they never think of questioning
                        copyright statements. Eleven hundred and forty copies usually will delight
                        them almost beyond endurance. (Laughter and applause). Go look at the book
                        lists of the publishers and you will feel the truth of what I have said.
                    "Now let me ask you if you can give, or if any publisher can give
                        one solitary honest reason why the publishing business should not be put
                        upon a cash basisa manuscript for so much money? The publisher controls his
                        own business, he knows every nook and corner, every leaf and every line of
                        it, and he should be able to say, just as the corn-merchant does, I will
                        give you so much, to which the author would say: I will take it, or I will
                        not take it. But what is the good of standing here and arguing? You believe
                        every word I speak, but you don't expect to profit by it. You will
                        go on gambling at the publisher's faro table just as long as he
                        will smile and deal the cards. Some of these 
                        days you will win, you think. Poor deluded wretches, go on and die in the
                        faith!"
                    No sooner had Ferris ended than Lucas the historian arose and expressed grave
                        doubts as to the propriety of the address. He was decidedly of the opinion
                        that authors could not afford to express themselves so freely and, if he
                        must say it, recklessly. How could Mr. Ferris substantiate by proof any of
                        the damaging allegations he had made against publishers of high standing?
                        What Mr. Ferris had said might be strictly true, but the facts were
                        certainly, very hard to come at, he thought. He hoped that Mr.
                        Ferris's address would not be reported to the press (here he
                        glanced appealingly at Miss Crabb), at least not as the sense of the
                        meeting. Such a thing would, in his opinion, be liable to work a great harm
                        to all present. He felt sure that the publishers would resent the whole
                        thing as malicious and libellous.
                    Throughout the audience there was a nervous stirring, a looking at one
                        another askance. It was as if a cold wave had flowed over them. Nobody had
                        anything further to say, and it was a great relief when Dufour moved an
                        adjournment sine die, which was carried by a vote that
                        suggested a reserve of power. Every face in the audience, with the exception
                        of Dufour's, wore a half-guilty look, and everybody crept silently
                        out of the room.
                
                
                
                    XV.
                    IT caused quite a commotion on Mt. Boab when Bartley
                        Hubbard and Miss Henrietta Stackpole, newspaper people from Boston, arrived
                        at Hotel Helicon. Miss Stackpole had just returned from Europe, and Bartley
                        Hubbard had run down from Boston for a week to get some points for his
                        paper. She had met Mr. Henry James on the continent and Hubbard had dined
                        with Mr. Howells just before leaving Boston.
                    No two persons in all the world would have been less welcome among the guests
                        at the hotel, just then, than were these professional reporters. Of course
                        everybody tried to give them a cordial greeting, but they were classed along
                        with Miss Crabb as dangerous characters whom it would be folly to snub. Miss
                        Moyne was in downright terror of them, associating the thought of them with
                        those ineffable pictures of herself which were still appearing at second and
                        third hand in the "patent insides" of the country
                        journals, but she was very good to them, and Miss Stackpole at once attached
                        herself to her unshakably. Hubbard did likewise with little Mrs. Philpot,
                        who amused him mightily with her strictures upon analytical realism in
                        fiction.
                    "I do think that Mr. Howells treated you most shamefully,"
                        she said to him. "He had no right to represent you as a
                        disagreeable person, who was cruel to his wife and who had no moral
                        stamina."
                    
                    Hubbard laughed as one who hears an absurd joke. "Oh, Howells and I
                        have an understanding. We are really great friends," he said.
                        "I satto him for my portrait and I really think he flattered me. I
                        managed to keep him from seeing some of my ugliest lines."
                    "Now you are not quite sincere," said Mrs. Philpot,
                        glancing over him from head to foot. "You are not so bad as he made
                        you out to be. It's one of Mr. Howells's hobbies to
                        represent men as rather flabby nonentities and women as invalids or
                        dolls."
                    "He's got the men down fine," replied Hubbard,
                        "but I guess he is rather light on women. You will admit, however,
                        that he dissects feminine meanness and inconsequence with a deft
                        turn."
                    "He makes fun of women," said Mrs. Philpot, a little
                        testily, "he caricatures them, wreaks his humor on them; but you
                        know very well that he misrepresents them even in his most serious and quasi truthful moods."
                    Hubbard laughed, and there was something essentially vulgar in the notes of
                        the laugh. Mrs. Philpot admitted this mentally, and she found herself
                        shrinking from his steadfast but almost conscienceless eyes.
                    "I imagine I shouldn't be as bad a husband as he did me
                        into, but"
                    Mrs. Philpot interrupted him with a start and a little cry.
                    "Dear me!" and aren't you married?" she
                             asked in exclamatory deprecation of what
                        his words had implied.
                    He laughed again very coarsely and looked at her with eyes that almost lured.
                        "Married!" he exclaimed, "do I look like a
                        marrying man? A newspaper man can't afford to marry."
                    "How strange," reflected Mrs. Philpot, "how funny,
                        and Mr. Howells calls himself a realist!"
                    "Realist!" laughed Hubbard, "why he does not know
                        enough about the actual world to be competent to purchase a family horse.
                        He's a capital fellow, good and true and kind-hearted, but what
                        does he know about affairs? He doesn't even know how to flatter
                        women!"
                    "How absurd!" exclaimed little Mrs. Philpot, but Hubbard
                        could not be sure for the life of him just what she meant the expression to
                        characterize.
                    "And you like Mr. Howells?" she inquired.
                    "Like him! everybody likes him," he cordially said.
                    "Well, you are quite different from Miss Crabb. She hates Maurice Thompson for putting her into a
                        story."
                    "Oh, well," said Hubbard, indifferently, "women
                        are not like men. They take life more seriously. If Thompson had had more
                        experience he would not have tampered with a newspaper woman. He's
                        got the whole crew down on him. Miss Stackpole hates him almost as fiercely
                        as she hates Henry James."
                    
                    "I don't blame her," exclaimed Mrs. Philpot,
                        "it's mean and contemptible for men to caricature
                        women."
                    "Oil, I don't know," yawned Hubbard, "it
                        all goes in a lifetime."
                    At this opportune moment Miss Crabb and Miss Stackpole joined them, coming
                        arm in arm, Miss Crabb looking all the more sallow and slender in comparison
                        with the plump, well-fed appearance of her companion.
                    "May I introduce you to Miss Crabb of the Ringville Star, Mr. Hubbard," Miss Stackpole asked, in a high but
                        by no means rich voice, as she fastened her steady, button-like eyes on Mrs.
                        Philpot.
                    Hubbard arose lazily and went through the process of introduction
                        perfunctorily, giving Miss Crabb a sweeping but indifferent glance.
                    "There's an impromptu pedestrian excursion on
                        hand," said Miss Stackpole, "and I feel bound to go. One
                        of the gentlemen has discovered a hermit's cabin down a ravine near
                        here, and he offers to personally conduct a party to it. You will go, Mr.
                        Hubbard?"
                    "Go! I should remark that I will. You don't get a scoop of
                        that item, I assure you."
                    Miss Stackpole was a plump and rather pretty youug woman, fairly well dressed
                        in drab drapery. She stood firmly on her feet and had an air of
                        self-reliance and self-control in strong contrast with the fussy, nervous
                        manner of Miss Crabb.
                    Mrs. Philpot, surveyed the two young women 
                        with that comprehensive, critical glance which takes in everything that is
                        visible, and quickly enough she made up her comparison and estimate of them.
                    She decided that Miss Crabb had no style, no savoir faire,
                        no repose; but then Miss Stackpole was forward, almost impudent in
                        appearance, and her greater ease of manner was really the ease that comes of
                        a long training in intrusiveness, and of rubbing against an older
                        civilization. She felt quite distinctly the decided dash of vulgarity in the
                        three newspaper representatives before her, and she could not help
                        suspecting that it would not be safe to judge the press reporters by these
                        examples.
                    The question arose in her mind whether after all Howells and Henry James and
                        Maurice Thompson had acted fairly in taking these as representative
                        newspaper people.
                    She had met a great many newspaper people and had learned to like them as a
                        class; she had many good and helpful friends among them.
                    Unconsciously she was showing to all present that she was dissecting the
                        three reporters. Her unfavorable opinion of them slowly took expression in
                        her tell-tale face. Not that she wholly disliked or distrusted them; she
                        really pitied them. How could they be content to live such a life, dependent
                        upon what they could make by meddling, so to speak?
                    Then too, she felt a vague shame, a chagrin, a regret that real people must
                        be put into works  of fiction with all the
                        seamy side of their natures turned out, to the world's eye.
                    "We're in for it," exclaimed Hubbard,
                        "Mrs. Philpot is making a study of us as a group. See the dreaming
                        look in her eyes!"
                    "Oh, no! she never studies anybody or anything," said Miss
                        Crabb. "Poor little woman, real life is a constant puzzle to her,
                        and she makes not the slightest effort to understand it."
                    Hubbard and Miss Stackpole glanced curiously at each other and then at Miss
                        Crabb. Evidently their thought was a common one.
                
                
                    XVI.
                    THE pedestrian excursion spoken of by Miss Stackpole
                        promised to be an enjoyable affair to those of the Helicon guests who could
                        venture upon it. A writer of oddly entertaining and preposterously
                        impossible short stories, John B. Cattleton, had been mousing among the
                        ravines of Mt. Boab, and had stumbled upon what he described as a
                        "very obscure little cabin, jammed under a cliff in an angle of the
                        caon and right over a bright stream of cold, pure spring-water.
                        It's a miserably picturesque and forlornly prepossessing
                        place," he went on in his droll way, "where all sorts of
                        engaging ghosts and entertaining ogres might be supposed to congregate at
                        midnight. I didn't go quite down to it, but I was near enough to it
                        to make out its main features, and I saw the queerest being imaginable
                        poking around the premises. A veritable hermit, I should call  him, as old as the rocks themselves. His
                        dress was absurdly old-fashioned, a caricature of the uniform of our soldier
                        sires of revolutionary renown. A long spike-tailed blue coat with notable
                        brass buttons, a triangular hat somewhat bell-crowned and tow or cotton
                        trousers. Shirt? Vest? Yes, if I remember well they were of copperas
                        homespun. His hair and beard were white, fine and thin, hanging in tags and
                        wisps as fluffy as lint. I sat upon a rock in the shadow of a cedar tree and
                        watched his queer manuvres for a good while. All his movements were furtive
                        and peculiar, like those of a shy, wild beast."
                    "It's the Prophet of the Smoky Mountain," said
                        Miss Crabb in an earnest stage whisper. "He's
                        Craddock's material, we can't touch him."
                    "Touch him! I'll interview him on dialect in
                        politics," said Hubbard, "and get his views on sex in
                        genius."
                    "I should like a sketch of his life. There must be a human interest
                        to serve as straw for my brick," remarked Miss Stackpole.
                        "The motive that induced him to become a hermit, and all
                        that."
                    Miss Crabb dared not confess that she desired a sketch of the old man for the
                        newspaper syndicate, so she merely drummed on her front teeth with her
                        pencil.
                    Dufour joined the pedestrian party with great enthusiasm, having dressed
                        himself for the occasion in a pair of tennis trousers, a blue flannel shirt,
                        a loose jacket and a shooting cap.
                    
                    His shoes were genuine alpine foot-gear with short spikes in their heels and
                        soles.
                    "Lead on Cattleton," he cried jovially, "and let
                        our motto be, 'On to the hut of Friar Tuck'!"
                    "Good," answered Cattleton in like spirit, "and
                        you shall be my lieutenant, come, walk beside me."
                    "Thank you, from the bottom of my heart," replied Dufour,
                        "but I cannot accept. I have contracted to be Miss Moyne's
                        servant instead."
                    That was a gay procession filing away from Hotel Helicon through the thin
                        forest that fringed one shoulder of stately Mt. Boab. Cattleton led the
                        column, flinging back from time to time his odd sayings and preposterous
                        conceits.
                    The day was delightfully cool with a steady wind running over the mountain
                        and eddying in the sheltered coves where the ferns were thick and tall. In
                        the sky were a few pale clouds slowly vanishing, whilst some broad-pinioned
                        buzzards wheeled round and round above the blue-green abyss of the valley.
                        There were sounds of a vague, dreamy sort abroad in the woods, like the
                        whisperings and laughter of legions of invisible beings. Everybody felt
                        exhilarated and buoyant, tramping gaily away to the hut of the hermit.
                    At a certain point Cattleton commanded a halt, and pointing out the entrance
                        to the ravine, said:
                    "Now, good friends, we must have perfect  silence during the descent, or our visit will be all in vain.
                        Furthermore, the attraction of gravitation demands that, in going down, we
                        must preserve our uprightness, else our progress may be facilitated to an
                        alarming degree, and our advent at the hut be far from becomingly
                        dignified."
                    Like a snake, necked with touches of gay color, the procession crawled down
                        tha ravine, the way becoming steeper and more tortuous at every step.
                        Thicker and thicker and thicker grew the trees, saving where the rook broke
                        forth from the soil, and closer drew the zig-zags of the barely possible
                        route. Cattleton silenced every voice and rebuked every person who showed
                        signs of weakening.
                    "It's just a few steps farther," he whispered back
                        from his advanced position, "don't make the least
                        sound."
                    But the ravine proved, upon this second descent much more difficult and
                        dangerous than it had appeared to Cattleton at first, and it was with the
                        most heroic exertions that he finally led the party down to the point whence
                        he had viewed the cabin. By this time the column was pressing upon him and
                        he could not stop. Down he went, faster and faster, barely able to keep his
                        feet, now sliding, now clutching a tree or rock, with the breathless and
                        excited line of followers gathering dangerous momentum behind him.
                    It was too late now to command silence or to control the company in any way.
                        An avalanche  of little stones, loosened by
                        scrambling feet, swept past him and wentleaping on down below. He heard Miss
                        Moyne utter a little scream of terror that mingled with many exclamations
                        from both men and women, and then he lost his feet and began to slide. Down
                        he sped and down sped the party after him, till in a cataract of mightily
                        frightened, but unharmed men and women, they all went over a little
                        precipice and landed in a scattered heap on a great bed of oak leaves that
                        the winds had drifted against the rock.
                    A few moments of strange silence followed, then everybody sprang up,
                        disheveled and red-faced, to look around and see what was the matter.
                    They found themselves close to the long, low cabin, from under which flowed a
                        stream of water. A little column of smoke was wandering out of a curious
                        clay chimney. Beside the low door-way stood a long, deep trough filled with
                        water in which a metal pipe was coiled fantastically. Two earthen jugs with
                        cob stoppers sat hard by. A sourish smell assaulted their sense and a faint
                        spirituous flavor burdened the air.
                    Cattleton, who was first upon his feet, shook himself together and drolly
                        remarked:
                    "We have arrived in good order, let's interview
                        the"
                    Just then rushed forth from the door the old man of the place, who halted
                        outside and snatched from its rack on the wall a long tin  horn, which he proceeded to blow vigorously,
                        the echoes prowling through the woods and over the foot-hills and scampering
                        far away up and down the valley.
                    Not a soul present ever could forget that sketch, the old man with his
                        shrunken legs bent and wide apart, his arms akimbo as he leaned far back and
                        held up that wailing, howling, bellowing horn, and his long coat-tail almost
                        touching the ground, whilst his fantastic hat quivered in unison with the
                        strain he was blowing. How his shriveled cheeks puffed out, and how his eyes
                        appeared to be starting from their bony sockets!
                    "That is what I call a fitting reception," said Cattleton,
                        gazing at the trumpeter.
                    "See here," exclaimed Crane with evident excitement,
                        "I smell whisky! This"
                    "Hyer! what d'ye mean hyer, you all a comin' down
                        hyer?" broke forth a wrathful voice, and Wesley Tolliver rushed
                        with melodramatic-fierceness upon the scene.
                    "Oh! IIwawant to ggo home!" cried little Mrs. Philpot,
                        clutching Bartley Hubbard's arm.
                    "So do I," said he with phlegmatic cleverness. "I
                        should like to see my mother. I'm feeling a little lonely
                        and"
                    "What upon yearth do this yer mean, anyhow?" thundered
                        Tolliver. "Who invited you all down yer, tell me thet, will
                        ye?"
                    "Oh, Mr. Tolliver, Mr. Tolliver!" exclaimed  Miss Crabb, rushing upon him excitedly,
                        "I'm so glad you are here!"
                    "Well, I'll ber dorged!" he ejaculated,
                        "you down hyer again! Well, I never seed the like afore in all my
                        born days."
                    He gazed at first one and then another of the party, and a sudden light
                        flashed into his face.
                    "Well I'll ber dorged ef ther whole kepoodle of
                        'em hain't done jest gone and tumbled off'n the
                        mounting an' jest rolled down hyer!"
                    "You're a very accurate reasoner, my friend," said
                        Cattleton, trying to get his hat into' shape. "I think we
                        touched at two or three points as we came down, however."
                    About this time four or five more mountaineers appeared bearing guns and
                        looking savage.
                    "Bandits," said Miss Stackpole with a shudder.
                    "Oh, for heaven's sake, Mr. Hubbard, do tttake mme
                        home!" wailed Mrs. Philpot.
                    "I should be delighted," said Hubbard, his voice concealing
                        the uneasiness he felt. "Indeed I should."
                    More men appeared and at the same time a roll of thunder tumbled across the
                        darkening sky. A sudden mountain storm had arisen.
                    The pedestrians found themselves surrounded by a line of grim and silent men
                        who appeared to be waiting for orders from Tolliver.
                    A few large drops of rain come slanting down 
                        from the advancing fringe of the sable-cloud, and again the thunder bounded
                        across the heavens.
                    "I guess you'd better invite us in," suggested
                        Cattleton, turning to the old man, who stood leaning on his tin horn.
                        "The ladies will get wet."
                    "I say, Cattleton," called out Bartley Hubbard,
                        "if a fellow only had a little supply of Stockton's
                        negative gravity he could ameliorate his condition, don't you
                        think?"
                    "Yes, I'd like to fall up hill just now. The excitement
                        would be refreshing."
                    There came a spiteful dash of rain and a flurry of wind.
                    "You'ns had better go inter the still-house," said
                        Tolliver. "Hit air goin' ter rain yearlin'
                        calves. Go right erlong in, ye sha'n't be hurt."
                    Another gush of rain enforced the invitation, and they all scrambled into the
                        cabin pell-mell, glad of the relief from a strain that had become almost
                        unbearable to some of them, but they stared at each other when they found
                        the door closed and securely locked on the outside.
                    "Prisoners!" cried some one whose voice was drowned by a
                        deafening crash of thunder and a mighty flood of rain that threatened to
                        crush in the rickety roof of the house.
                    "The treacherous villain!" exclaimed Dufour, speaking of
                        Tolliver and holding Miss Moyne's hand. The poor girl was so
                        frightened that it was a comfort to her to have her hand held.
                    "How grand, how noble it is in Mr. Tolliver  and his friends," said Miss Crabb, "to stand
                        out there in the rain and let us have the shelter! I never saw a more virile
                        and thoroughly unselfish man than he is. He is one of Nature's
                        unshorn heroes, a man of the ancient god-like race."
                    Mrs. Nancy Jones Black gave the young woman a look of profound contempt.
                    Then a crash of thunder, wind, and rain scattered everybody's
                        thoughts.
                
                
                    XVII.
                    THE storm was wild enough, but of short duration, and it
                        came to its end as suddenly as it had begun. As the black cloud departed
                        from the sky, the darkness, which had been almost a solid inside the
                        still-house, was pierced by certain lines of mild light coming through
                        various chinks in the walls and roof. Our friends examined one another
                        curiously, as if to be sure that it was not all a dream.
                    Cattleton found himself face to face with a demure-looking young man, whom he
                        at once recognized as Harry Punner, a writer of delicious verses and editor
                        of a rollicking humorous journal at New York.
                    "Hello, Hal! you here?" he cried. "Well how does
                        it strike your funny bone? It insists upon appearing serious to
                        me."
                    "I'm smothering for a whiff of fresh air," said
                        Punner, in a very matter-of-fact tone. "Can't we raise a
                        window or something?"
                    "The only window visible to the naked eye," said Cattleton,
                        "is already raised higher than I  can
                        reach," and he pointed to a square hole in the wall about seven and
                        a-half feet above the ground and very near the roof.
                    Crane went about in the room remarking that the aroma floating in the air was
                        the bouquet of the very purest and richest copper-distilled corn whisky and
                        that if he could find it he was quite sure that a sip of it would prove very
                        refreshing under the peculiar circumstances of the case, an observation
                        which called forth from Mrs. Nancy Jones Black a withering temperance
                        reprimand.
                    "As the presiding officer of the Woman's
                            Prohibition Promulgation Society I cannot let such a remark pass
                        without condemning it. If this really is a liquor establishment I desire to
                        be let out of it forthwith."
                    "So do I!" exclaimed little Mrs. Philpot with great
                        vehemence. "Open the door Mr. Hubbard, please."
                    Hubbard went to the door and finding that it was constructed to open
                        outwardly, gave it a shove with all his might. There was a short tussle and
                        he staggered back.
                    "Why don't you push it open?" fretfully exclaimed
                        Mrs. Nancy Jones Black.
                    "The gentlemen outside object, for reasons not stated," was
                        the rather stolidly spoken answer.
                    Cattleton had taken off his hat and was going about through the company
                        soliciting handkerchiefs.
                    
                    "Drop them in, drop them in," he urged, "I need
                        all of them that I can get."
                    He offered his hat as a contribution box as he spoke, and nearly every-one
                        gave a handkerchief, without in the least suspecting his purpose.
                    "When he had collected a round dozen, Cattleton crammed them all
                        down in the crown of his hat which he then put on his head.
                    "Now Hal," he said, addressing Punner, "give me a
                        boost and I'll make an observation through that window."
                    The rain was now entirely ended and the wind had fallen still.
                    With Punner's help Cattleton got up to the window and poked out his
                        head.
                    "Git back ther'!" growled a vicious voice, and at
                        the same time the dull sound of a heavy blow was followed by the retreat of
                        Cattleton from the window to the floor in a great hurry.
                    Upon top of his hat was a deep trench made by a club.
                    "The handkerchiefs did their duty nobly," he remarked.
                        "Let everybody come forward and identify his property."
                    "What did you see?" asked Punner.
                    "A giant with an oak tree in his hand and murder in his
                        eye," said Cattleton, busily selecting and returning the
                        handkerchiefs. "This eleemosynary padding was all that saved me.
                        The blow was aimed at my divine intellect."
                    "See here," cried Peck, in great earnest, "this is
                        no joking matter. We're in the power 
                        of a set of mountain moonshiners, and may be murdered in cold blood.
                        "We'd better do something."
                    Crane had prowled around until he had found a small jug of fragrant mountain
                        dew whisky, which he was proceeding to taste in true Kentucky style, when a
                        gaunt form rose in a corner of the room, and tottering forward seized the
                        jug and took it out of his hand.
                    "No ye don't, sonny, no ye don't! This yer
                        mounting jew air not ever'body's licker 'at wants
                        it. Not by er half er mile at the littlest calc'lation!"
                    Miss Crabb made a note. Crane gazed pathetically at the fantastic old man
                        before him, and brushed his handkerchief across his lips, as if from habit,
                        as he managed to say:
                    "I meant no undue liberty, I assure you. That whiskey is"
                    "Overpowerin'," interrupted the old man, taking a
                        sip from the vessel. "Yes, I don't blame ye fur a
                        wantin' of it, but this yer licker air mine."
                    "Up in Kentucky," said Crane, "we are proud to
                        offer"
                    "Kaintucky! did ye say ole Kaintuck? Air ye from ther',
                        boy?"
                    The octogenarian leaned forward as he spoke and gazed at Crane with
                        steadfast, rheumy eyes.
                    Miss Henrietta Stackpole came forward to hear what was to follow, her
                        instinct telling her  that a point of human
                        interest was about to be reached.
                    "Yes," said Crane, "I was born and reared on
                        Lulbegrud creek."
                    "Lulbegrud!"
                    "Yes."
                    "How fur f'om Wright's mill?"
                    "Close by, at Kiddville," said Crane.
                    "Ye 'member Easton's Springs close by an- Pilot
                        Knob away off in the distance?"
                    "Very well, indeed, and Guoff's pond.
                    "Boy, what mought yer name be?"
                    "Crane."
                    "Crane!"
                    "Yes."
                    "Well, I'll ber dorg!"
                    The old man stood gazing and grinning at Crane for some moments, and then
                        added:
                    "What's yer pap's name?"
                    "Eliphas Crane."
                    "Yes."
                    "Child, I air yer pap's uncle."
                    "What!"
                    "I air Peter Job Crane."
                    "You!"
                    "Sartin es anything."
                    "Are you my father's uncle Peter?"
                    "How strange!"
                    Miss Stackpole did not permit a word, a look, or a shade of this interview to
                        escape her. She now turned to Hartley Hubbard and said:
                    
                    "We Americans are the victims of heterogeneous consanguinity. Such
                        an incident as this could not happen in England. It will be a long time
                        before we can get rid of our ancestors."
                    "Yes," assented Hubbard, nonchalantly, "Yer
                        pap's uncle certainly is a large factor in American life."
                    "How many men did you see when you looked out?" Peck
                        inquired, addressing Cattleton.
                    "I saw only one, but he was a monster," was the ready
                        reply. "It's no use brooding over trying to escape by
                        force. We're utterly helpless, and that jolt on my head has
                        rendered me unfit for diplomatic efforts."
                    "What do you suppose they will do with us?"
                    "They won't dare let us go."
                    "Why?"
                    "They'd be afraid that we would report their illicit
                        distillery."
                    "Ah, I see."
                    The affair began to take on a very serious and gloomy aspect, and the room
                        was growing oppressively hot, owing to the presence of a small but energetic
                        furnace that glowed under a sighing boiler. Outside, with the clearing sky
                        and refreshed air, there arose a clamor of bird-song in the dripping trees.
                        Under the floor the spring-stream gurgled sweetly.
                    "Ye 'member Abbott's still house on ole
                        Lulbegrud?" said the old man, pursuing his reminisences, after he
                        had permitted his grandnephew  to taste the
                        "mounting jew," "an' Dan
                        Rankin's ole bob-tail hoss?"
                    "Very well, ideed," responded Crane, "and Billy
                        Pace's blackberry fields where I picked berries in summer and
                        chased rabbits in winter."
                    "Take er nother drop o' the jyful juice, boy, fur the
                        mem'ry o' ole Kaintuck!"
                    "Oh dear! but isn't it incomparably awful?"
                        exclaimed Mrs. Nancy Jones Black, gazing in horrified fascination upon the
                        two Kentuckians, as they bowed to each other and drank alternately from the
                        little jug.
                    "Characteristic Southern scene not used by Craddock,"
                        murmured Miss Crabb, making a whole page of a single note.
                    "Don't this yere liquor taste o' one thing
                        an' smell o' another an' jes' kinder git
                        ter the lowest p'int o' yer appetite?" continued
                        Crane's great uncle Peter.
                    "Delicious beyond compare," responded the young man,
                        drinking again, "it is nectar of the gods."
                    Mrs. Nancy Jones Black groaned, but could not withdraw her eyes from the
                        scene.
                    "Good deal like ole times down to Abbott's still-house on
                        Lulbegrud, boy," the old man suggested, "ye don't
                        forgit erbout Dan Rankin's mule a-kickin' ole man
                        Hornback's hat off?"
                    The poet laughed retrospectively and mopped his glowing face with his
                        handkerchief. The heat from the furnace and the stimulus of the excellent
                        beverage were causing him to feel the need of fresh air.
                    
                    Indeed, everybody was beginning to pant. Miss Moyne was so overcome with
                        excitement and with the heat of the place, that she was ready to faint, when
                        the door was flung open and Tolliver appeared. A rash of sweet cool air,
                        flooding the room, revived her, just as she was sinking into
                        Dufour's arms.
                
                
                    XVIII.
                    AUTHORS who have added the vice of elocution to the
                        weakness of dialect verse-making, are often at a loss for a sympathetic
                        audience. Whilst it is true that literary people are apt to bear with a good
                        deal of patience the mutually offered inflictions incident to meeting one
                        another, they draw the line at dialect recitations; and, as a rule,
                        stubbornly refuse to be bored with a fantastic rendition of "When
                        Johnny got spanked by a mule," or "Livery-stable
                        Bob," or "Samantha's Courtin',"
                        or "Over the Ridge to the Pest-house," no matter how dear
                        a friend may offer the scourge. Circumstances alter cases, however, and
                        although neither Carleton, nor Riley, nor yet Burdette, nor Bill Nye (those
                        really irresistible and wholly delightful humorists), had come to Hotel
                        Helicon, there was a certain relief for those of the guests who had not
                        joined the luckless pedestrians, in hearing Miss Amelia Lotus Nebeker recite
                        a long poem written in New Jersey patois.
                    Miss Nebeker was very hard of hearing, almost stone deaf, indeed, which
                        affliction lent  a pathetic effect even to her
                        humor. She was rather stout, decidedly short, and had a way of making wry
                        faces with a view to adding comicality to certain turns of her New Jersey
                        phraseology, and yet she was somewhat of a bore at times. Possibly she
                        wished to read too often and sometimes upon very unsuitable occasions. It
                        was Mrs. Bridges who once said that, if the minister at a funeral should ask
                        some one to say a few appropriate words, Miss Nebeker, if present, would
                        immediately clear her throat and begin reciting "A
                        Jerseyman's Jewsharp." "And if she once got
                        started you'd never be able to stop her, for she's as deaf
                        as an adder."
                    It was during the rainstorm, while those of the guests who had not gone to
                        the hermit's hut with Cattleton, were in the cool and spacious
                        parlor of the hotel, that something was said about Charles Dickens reading
                        from his own works. Strangely enough, although the remark was uttered in a
                        low key and at some distance from Miss Nebeker, she responded at once with
                        an offer to give them a new rendering of The
                            Jerseyman's Jewsharp. Lucas, the historian, objected
                        vigorously, but she insisted upon interpreting his words and gestures as
                        emphatic applause of her proprosition. She arose while he was saying:
                    "Oh now, that's too much, we're tired of the
                        jangling of that old harp; give us a rest!"
                    This unexpected and surprising slang from so grave and dignified a man set
                        everybody to laughing. Miss Nebeker bowed in smiling  acknowledgement of what appeared to her to be a flattering
                        anticipation of her humor, and taking her manuscript from some hiding-place
                        in her drapery, made a grimace and began to read. Mrs. Philpot's
                        cat, in the absence of its mistress, had taken up with the elocutionist and
                        now came to rub and purr around her feet while she recited. This was a small
                        matter, but in school or church or lecture-hall, small matters attract
                        attention. The fact that the cat now and again mewed plaintively set some of
                        the audience to smiling and even to laughing.
                    Such apparent approval of her new rendition thrilled Miss Nebeker to her
                        heart's core. Her voice deepened, her intonations caught the spirit
                        of her mood, and she read wildly well.
                    Every one who has even a smattering of the patois current
                        in New Jersey, will understand how effective it might be made in the larynx
                        of a cunning elocutionist; and then whoever has had the delicious experience
                        of hearing a genuine Jerseyman play on the jewsharp will naturally jump to a
                        correct conclusion concerning the pathos of the subject which Miss Nebeker
                        had in hand. She felt its influence and threw all her power into it. Heavy
                        as she was, she arose on her tip-toes at the turning point of the story and
                        gesticulated vehemently.
                    The cat, taken by surprise, leaped aside a pace or two and glared in a
                        half-frightened way, with each separate hair on its tail set stiffly. Of
                        course there was more laughter which the reader took as applause.
                    
                    "A brace of cats!" exclaimed the historian. "A
                        brace of cats!"
                    Nobody knew what he meant, but the laughing increased, simply for the reason
                        that there was nothing to laugh at.
                    Discovering pretty soon that Miss Nebeker really meant no harm by her
                        manuvres, the cat went back to rub and purr at her feet. Then Miss Nebeker
                        let down her heel on the cat's tail, at the same time beginning
                        with the pathetic part of The Jerseyman's
                        Jewsharp.
                    The unearthly squall that poor puss gave forth was wholly lost on the excited
                        elocutionist, but it quite upset the audience, who, not wishing to appear
                        rude, used their handkerchiefs freely.
                    Miss Nebeker paused to give full effect to a touching line.
                    The cat writhed and rolled and clawed the air and wailed like a lost spirit
                        in its vain endeavor to free its tail; but Miss Nebeker, all unconscious of
                        the situation, and seeing her hearers convulsed and wiping tears from their
                        faces, redoubled her elocutionary artifices and poured incomparable feeling
                        into her voice.
                    Suddenly the tortured and writhing animal uttered a scream of blood-curdling
                        agony and lunged at Miss Nebeker's ankles with tooth and claw.
                    She was in the midst of the passage where the dying Jerseyman lifts himself
                        on his elbow and calls for his trusty Jewsharp:
                    "Gi' me my juice-harp, Sarah Ann" she was saying,
                        when of a sudden she screamed  louder than the
                        cat and bounded into the air, sending her manuscript in fluttering leaves
                        all over the room.
                    The cat, with level tail and fiery eyes, sailed through the door-way into the
                        hall, and went as if possessed of a devil, bounding up the stairway to Mrs.
                        Philpot's room.
                    Congractulations were in order, and Lucas insisted upon bellowing in Miss
                        Nebeker's ear his appreciation of the powerful effect produced by
                        the last scene in the little drama.
                    "If our friends who are out in this rain are finding anything half
                        as entertaining," he thundered, "they needn't
                        mind the drenching."
                    "But I'm bitten, I'm scratched, I'm
                        hurt!' she exclaimed.
                    Lucas suddenly realized the brutality of his attitude, and hastened to
                        rectify it by collecting the leaves of her manuscript and handing them to
                        her.
                    "I beg pardon," he said sincerely, "I hope you are
                        not hurt much."
                    "Just like a cat," she cried, "always under
                        somebody's feet! I do despise them!"
                    With a burning face and trembling hands she swiftly rearranged the manuscript
                        and assuming the proper attitude asked the audience to be seated again.
                    "I am bitten and scratched quite severely," she said,
                        "and an suffering great pain, but if you will resume your places I
                        will begin over again."
                    
                    "Call that cat back, then, quick!" exclaimed Lucas,
                        "it's the star performer in the play."
                    She proceeded forthwith, setting out on a new journey through the tortuous
                        ways of the poem, and held up very well to the end. What she called New
                        Jersey patois was a trifle flat when put into verse and she lacked the
                        polished buffoonery of a successful dialect reader, wherefore she failed to
                        get along very successfully with her audience in the absence of the cat;
                        still the reading served to kill a good deal of time, by a mangling process.
                    The storm was over long ago when she had finished, and the sun was flooding
                        the valley with golden splendor. Along the far away mountain ridges some
                        slanting wisps of whitish mist sailed slowly, like serial yachts riding dark
                        blue billows. The foliage of the trees, lately dusky and drooping, twinkled
                        vividly with a green that was almost dazzling, and the air was deliciously
                        fresh and fragrant.
                    Everybody went out on the veranda for a turn and a deep breath.
                    The mail had arrived and by a mistake a bundle of letters bearing the card of
                        George Dunkirk & Co., and addressed to "George Dunkirk,
                        Esq., Hotel Helicon, room 24," was handed to Lucas.
                    The historian gazed at the superscription, adjusted his glasses and gazed
                        again, and slowly the truth crept into his mind. There were ten or fifteen
                        of the letters. Evidently some of them, as Lucas's experience
                        suggested, had alien  letters inclosed within
                        their envelopes, and thus, forwarded by the mailing clerk of the firm had at
                        last corne to the senior partner at room 24.
                    "Gaspard Dufour, indeed!" Lucas exclaimed inwardly.
                        "George Dunkirk, rather. This is a pretty kettle of fish!"
                    He sent the letters up to room 24, to await the return of their proper
                        recipient, and fell to reflecting upon the many, very many and very
                        insulting things that he and nearly all the rest of the hotel guests as well
                        had said in Dufour's hearing about publishers in general and about
                        George Dunkirk & Co., in particular. His face burned with the heat
                        of the retrospect, as he recalled such phrases as "sleek
                        thief," "manipulator of copy-right statements,"
                        "Cadmean wolf" "ghoul of literary
                        grave-yards," and a hundred others, applied with utter unrestraint
                        and bandied around, while George Dunkirk was sitting by listening to it all!
                    He called Ferris to him and imparted his discovery in a stage whisper.
                    "The dickens!" was all that gentleman could say, as the
                        full text of his address of the other evening rushed upon him.
                    "It is awkward, devilish awkward," remarked Lucas, wiping
                        his glasses and nervously readjusting them.
                    A few minutes later two men rode up to the hotel. One of them was a very
                        quiet-looking fellow who dryly stated that he was the high sheriff of Mt.
                        Boab county.
                
                
                
                    XIX.
                    MEANTIME down the ravine in the obscure little still-house
                        our pedestrians were held in durance vile by Tolliver and his obedient
                        moon-shiners.
                    It was a puzzling situation to all concerned. Far from wishing or intending
                        to harm his prisoners, Tolliver still could not see his way clear to setting
                        them at liberty. On the other hand he was clever enough to perceive that to
                        hold them very long would be sure to lead to disaster, for their friends
                        would institute a search and at the same time telegraph an account of their
                        disappearance all over the country.
                    "'Pears ter me like I've ketched bigger game
                        'an my trap 'll hold," he thought, as he stood in
                        the door-way surveying his victims.
                    "What ye all a doin' a monkeyin' round'
                        these yer premerses, anyhow?" he demanded. "Wy
                        c'udn't ye jest wait 'll I sent for ye ter kern
                        yer?"
                    "It's a sort of surprise party, my dear sir," said
                        Cattleton. "Don't you see?"
                    "S'prise set o' meddlin' Yankees a
                        foolin' roun' wher' they air not got no business
                        at," responded Tolliver, "that's w'at I
                        calls it."
                    "Where's your pantry?" inquired Punner,
                        "I'm as hungry as a wolf."
                    "Hongry, air ye? What'd ye 'spect ter git ter eat
                        at er still-house, anyhow? Hain't ye 
                        got no sense er tall? Air ye er plum blasted eejit?"
                    Tolliver made these inquiries in a voice and manner suggestive of suppressed
                        but utter wrath.
                    "Oh he's always hungry, he would starve
                        in a feed-store," exclaimed Cattleton. "Don't pay
                        the least attention to him, Mr. Tolliver. He's incurably
                        hungry."
                    "W'y ef the man's really hongry" Tolliver
                        began to say in a sympathetic tone.
                    "Here," interrupted Hubbard gruffly, "let us out
                        of this immediately, can't you? The ladies can't bear this
                        foul air much longer, it's beastly."
                    "Mebbe hit air you 'at air a running this yer
                        chebang," said Tolliver with a scowl. "I'll
                        jes' let ye out w'en I git ready an' not a minute
                        sooner, nother. So ye've hearn my tin horn."
                    Miss Stackpole and Miss Crabb made notes in amazing haste.
                    Hubbard shrugged his heavy shoulders and bit his lip. He was baffled.
                    "Do you think they'll kill us?" murmured Miss
                        Moyne in Dufour's ear.
                    Dufour could not answer.
                    Crane and his "pap's uncle Pete" were still
                        hobnobbing over the jug.
                    "Yer's a lookin' at ye, boy, an' a
                        hopin' agin hope 'at ye may turn out ter be es likely a
                        man es yer pap," the old man was saying, preliminary to another
                        draught.
                    Crane was bowing with extreme politeness in 
                        acknowledgement of the sentiment, and was saying:
                    "I am told that I look like my father"
                    'Yes, ye do look a leetle like im," interrupted the old man
                        with a leer over the jug, "but l'me say at it air dern
                        leetle, boy, dern leetle!"
                    Punner overhearing this reply, laughed uproariously. Crane appeared oblivious
                        to the whole force of the joke, however. He was simply waiting for his turn
                        at the jug.
                    "As I wer' a sayin'," resumed the old
                        man, "yer's er hopin' agin' hope,
                        an' a lookin' at ye"
                    "How utterly brutal and disgusting!" cried Mrs. Nancy Jones
                        Black. "I must leave here, I cannot bear it longer! This is nothing
                        but a low, vile dram-shop! Let me pass!"
                    She attempted to go through the doorway, but Tolliver interfered.
                    "Stay wher' ye air," he said, in a respectful but
                        very stern tone. "Ye can't git out o' yer jist
                        yit."
                    "Dear me! Dear me!" wailed Mrs. Black, "what an
                        outrage, what an insult! Are you men?" she cried, turning upon the
                        gentlemen near her, "and will you brook this?"
                    "Give me your handkerchiefs again," said Cattleton,
                        "and I will once more poke out my head; 'tis all that I
                        can do!"
                    "Shoot the fust head 'at comes out'n thet ther
                        winder, Dave!" ordered Tolliver, speaking to some one outside.
                    
                    "I don't care for any handkerchiefs, thank you,"
                        said Cattleton, "I've changed my mind."
                    Miss Moyne was holding Dufour's arm with a nervous clutch, her eyes
                        were full of tears, and she was trembling violently. He strove to quiet her
                        by telling her that there was no danger, that he would shield her, die for
                        her and all that; but Tolliver looked so grim and the situation was so
                        strange and threatening that she could not control herself.
                    "Goodness! but isn't this rich material," Miss
                        Crabb soliloquized, writing in her little red book with might and main.
                        "Bret Harte never discovered anything better."
                    "Miss Henrietta Stackpole was too busy absorbing the human interest
                        of the interview between the two Cranes, to be more than indirectly aware of
                        anything else that was going on around her.
                    "Ye needn't be erfeard as ter bein' hurt,
                        boy," said the old man, "not es long es yer pap's
                        uncle Pete air eroun' yer. Hit ain't often 'at I
                        meets up wi' kinfolks downyer, an' w'en I does
                        meet up wi' 'em I treats 'em es er Southern
                        gen'l'man orter treat his kinfolks."
                    "Precisely so," said Crane, taking another sip,
                        "hospitality is a crowning Southern virtue. When I go up to
                        Louisville Henry Watterson and I always have a good time."
                    "Spect ye do, boy, spect ye do. Louisville use ter be a
                        roarin' good piace ter be at."
                    Tolliver, whose wits had been hard at work, 
                        now proposed what he called "terms o' pay-roll, like what
                        they hed in the war."
                    "Ef ye'll all take a oath an' swa' at
                        ye'll never tell nothin' erbout nothin," said he,
                        "w'y I'll jest let ye off this yer
                        time."
                    "That is fair enough," said Dufour, "we are not in
                        the detective service."
                    "Then," observed Tolliver, "ef I ken git the
                        'tention of this yer meetin', I move 'at it air
                        yerby considered swore 'at nothin' air ter be said erbout
                        nothin' at no time an' never. Do ye all
                        swa'?"
                    "Yes!" rang out a chorus of voices.
                    "Hit air cyarried," said Tolliver, "an'
                        the meetin' air dismissed, sigh er die. Ye kin all go on erbout yer
                        business."
                    The pedestrians filed out into the open air feeling greatly relieved. Crane
                        lingered to have a few more passages with his sociable and hospitable
                        grand-uncle. Indeed he remained until the rest of the party had passed out
                        of sight up the ravine and he did not reach the hotel until far in the
                        night, when he sang some songs under Miss Moyne's window.
                    Taken altogether, the pedestrians felt that they had been quite successful in
                        their excursion.
                    Dufour was happiness itself. On the way back he had chosen for himself and
                        Miss Moyne a path which separated them from the others, giving him an
                        opportunity to say a great deal to her.
                    Now it is a part of our common stock of 
                        understanding that when a man has an excellent and uninterrupted opportunity
                        to say a great deal to a beautiful young woman, he usually does not find
                        himself able to say much; still he rarely fails to make himself understood.
                    They both looked so self-consciously happy (when they arrived a little later
                        than the rest at Hotel Helicon) that suspicion would have been aroused but
                        for two startling and all-absorbing disclosures which drove away every other
                        thought.
                    One was the disclosure of the fact that Dufour was not Dufour, but George
                        Dunkirk, and the other was the disclosure of the fact that the high sheriff
                        of Mt. Boab County was in Hotel Helicon on important official business.
                    Little Mrs. Philpot was the first to discover that the great publisher really
                        had not practiced any deception as to his name. Indeed her album showed that
                        the signature therein was, after all, George Dunkirk and not Gaspard Dufour.
                        The autograph was not very plain, it is true, but it was decipherable and
                        the mistake was due to her own bad reading.
                    If the sheriff had been out of the question the humiliation felt by the
                        authors, for whom Dunkirk was publisher and who had talked so outrageously
                        about him, would have crashed them into the dust; but the sheriff was there
                        in his most terrible form, and he forced himself upon their consideration
                        with his quiet but effective methods of legal procedure.
                
                
                
                    XX.
                    "Gaslucky has been caught in a wheat corner at Chicago,"
                        Lucas explained, "and has been squeezed to death."
                    "Dead!" cried Punner, "it's a great loss.
                        We'll have to hold a meeting and pass res"
                    "We'll have to get out of this place in short
                        order," said Lucas, "the sheriff has levied an attachment
                        on the hotel and all it contains."
                    "What!"
                    "How's that?"
                    "Do you mean that the house is to be shut up and we turned
                        out?"
                    "Just that," said Lucas. "The sheriff has invoiced
                        every thing, even the provisions on hand. He says that we can't eat
                        another bite here."
                    "And I'm starving even now!" exclaimed Punner.
                        "I could eat most anything. Let's, walk round to
                        Delmonico's, Cattleton."
                    "But really, what can we do?" demanded Ferris, dolefully
                        enough.
                    "Go home, of course," said Cattleton.
                    Ferris looked blank and stood with his hands thrust in his pockets.
                    "I can't go home," he presently remarked.
                    "Why?"
                    "I haven't money enough to pay my way."
                    "By George! neither have I!" exclaimed Cattleton with a
                        start.
                    
                    "That is precisely my fix," said Lucas gravely.
                    "You echo my predicament," said Peek.
                    "My salary is suspended during my absence," said Punner,
                        with his eyes bent on the floor.
                    "Squeezed in a wheat corner?" inquired Miss Stackpole,
                        "what do you mean by that?"
                    "I mean that Gaslucky got sheared in the big deal the other day at
                        Chicago," Lucas explained.
                    "Got sheared?"
                    "Yes, the bulls sat down on him."
                    "Oh, you mean a speculationa"
                    "Yes, Gaslucky was in for all he waa worth, and they run it down on
                        him and flattened him. A gas-man's no business in wheat, especially
                        in Chicago; they spread him out, just as the sheriff's proceedings
                        have flattened all our hopes for the present."
                    "It's just outrageous!" cried little Mrs. Philpot,
                        finding her voice. "He should have notified us, so that"
                    "They didn't notify him, I guess," said Cattleton.
                    "No, he found it out afterwards," remarked Lucas, glancing
                        gloomily toward where Dunkirk and Miss Moyne stood, apparently in light and
                        pleasant conversation.
                    Viewed in any light the predicament was a peculiar and distressing one to the
                        guests of Hotel Helicon. The sheriff, a rather ignorant,  but very stubborn and determined man, held
                        executions and writs of attachment sued out by Gaslucky creditors, which he
                        had proceeded to levy on the hotel and on all the personalty visible in it
                        belonging to the proprietor.
                    "'Course," said he, "hit'll be
                        poorly hard on you'ns, but I can't help it, I've
                        got ter do my juty, let it hurt whoever it will. Not er thing kin ye tech
                        at's in this yer tavern, 'ceptin' what's
                        your'n, that air's jest how it air. So now mind
                        w'at yer a doin'."
                    The servants were idle, the dining-room closed, the kitchen and pantries
                        locked up. Never was there a more doleful set of people. Mrs. Nancy Jones
                        Black thought of playing a piece of sacred music, but she found the grand
                        piano locked, with its key deep in the sheriff's pocket.
                    The situation was made doubly disagreeable when at last the officer informed
                        the guests that they would have to vacate their rooms forthwith, as he
                        should proceed at once to close up the building.
                    "Heavens, man, are you going to turn us out into the
                        woods?" demanded Peck.
                    "Woods er no woods" he replied, "ye'll
                        hev ter git out'n yer, right off."
                    "But the ladies, Mr. Sheriff," suggested Punner,
                        "no Southern gentleman can turn a lady out of doors."
                    The officer actually colored with the force of the insinuation. He stood
                        silent for some time with his eyes fixed on the floor. Presently he looked
                        up and said:
                    
                    "The weeming kin stay till mornin'."
                    "Well they must have something to eat," said Punner.
                        "They can't starve."
                    "Thet's so," the sheriff admitted, "they
                        kin hev a bite er so."
                    "And we"
                    "You men folks oayn't hev a dorg gone mouthful, so shet
                        up!"
                    "Well," observed Cattleton, dryly, "it appears the
                        odds is the difference between falling into the hands of moonshiners and
                        coming under the influence of a lawful sheriff."
                    "I know a little law," interposed Bartley Hubbard with a
                        sullen emphasis, "and I know that this sheriff has no right to
                        tumble us out of doors, and for my part"
                    "Fur yer part," said the sheriff coolly, "fur yer
                        part, Mister, ef ye fool erlong o' me I'll crack yer gourd
                        fur ye."
                    "You'll do what?"
                    "I'll stave in yer piggin."
                    "I don't understand."
                    "W'y, blame yer ignorant hide, wha' wer'
                        ye borned and fotch up? I'll jest knock the everlastin'
                        head off'n ye, thet's
                        'zac'ly w'at I says. Mebbe ye don't
                        understan' thet?"
                    "Yes," said Hubbard, visibly shrinking into himself,
                        "I begin to suspect your meaning."
                    Miss Crabb was taking notes with enthusiastic rapidity.
                    Dunkirk called the sheriff to him and a long conference was held between
                        them, the result of which was presently announced.
                    
                    "I heve thort it over," said the quiet officer of the law,
                        "an' es hit appear thet w'at grub air on
                        han' an' done cooked might spile afore it
                        c'u'd be sold, therefore I proclamate an' say at
                        you'ns kin stay yer tell termorrer an' eat
                        w'at's cooked, but tech nothin' else."
                    Cattleton and Punner applauded loudly. To everybody the announcement was a
                        reprieve of no small moment, and a sigh of relief rustled through the groups
                        of troubled guests. Those who had been down the ravine were very tired and
                        hungry; the thought of a cold luncheon to them was the vision of a feast.
                    Dunkirk had a basket of wine brought down from his room and he made the
                        sheriff sit beside him at the table.
                    "We may as well make the most of our last evening
                        together," he said, glancing jovially around.
                    "We shall have to walk down the mountain in the morning. I
                        suppose," remarked Bartley Hubbard.
                    "That's jest w'at's the matter,"
                        observed the sheriff.
                    "But the ladies, my dear sir, the ladies" began Punner.
                    "The weeming, they'll hev kinveyances, young man, so ye kin
                        jest shet up ef ye please," the officer interrupted, with a
                        good-natured wink and a knowing wag of his head.
                    A disinterested observer would have noted readily enough that the feast was
                        far from a banquet. There was Ferris, for instance,  munching a biscuit and sipping his wine and pretending to
                        enjoy Punner's sallies and Cattleton's drolleries, while
                        down in his heart lay the leaden thought, the hideous knowledge of an empty
                        pocket. Indeed the reflection was a common one, weighting down almost every
                        breast at the board.
                    One little incident did make even Ferris forget himself for a moment or two;
                        it was when deaf Miss Nebeker misinterpreted some remark made by Hubbard and
                        arose with a view to reciting The Jerseyman's
                        Jewsharp, with a new variation, "Oh, Jerseyman Joe had a
                        Jewsharp of gold," she began, in her most melodious drawl. She
                        could not hear the protesting voices of her friends and she misinterpreted
                        the stare of the sheriff.
                    "For the good heaven's sake, Hubbard," cried
                        Lucas, "do use your influence; quick, please, or I shall
                        collapse."
                    Bartley Hubbard took hold of her dress and gently pulled her down into her
                        chair.
                    "The sheriff objects!" he yelled in her ear.
                    "After dinner?" she resignedly inquired, "well,
                        then after dinner, in the parlor."
                    When the feast had come to the crumbs, Dunkirk arose and said:
                    "We all have had a good time at the Hotel Helicon, but our sojourn
                        upon the heights of Mt. Boab has been cut short by a certain chain of
                        mishaps over which we have had no control, and to-morrow we go away,
                        doubtless forever.  I feel like saying that I
                        harbor no unpleasant recollections of the days we have spent
                        together."
                    Cattelton sprung to his feet to move a vote of thanks "to the
                        public-spirited and benevolent man who built this magnificent hotel and
                        threw open its doors to us."
                    It was carried.
                    "Now then," said Lucas, adjusting his glasses and speaking
                        in his gravest chest-tones, "I move that it be taken as the sense
                        of this assembly, that it is our duty to draw upon our publisher for money
                        enough to take us home."
                    The response was overwhelming.
                    Dunkirk felt the true state of affairs. He arose, his broad face wreathed
                        with genial smiles, and said:
                    "To the certain knowledge of your unhappy publisher your accounts
                        are already overdrawn, but in view of the rich material you have been
                        gathering of late, your publisher will honor you draughts to the limit of
                        your expenses home."
                    Never did happier people go to bed. The last sleep in Hotel Helicon proved to
                        be the sweetest.
                    Far in the night, it is true, some one sang loudly but plaintively under Miss
                        Moyne's window until the sheriff awoke and sallied forth to end the
                        serenade with some remarks about "cracking that eejit's
                        gourd;" but there was no disturbance, the sounds blending sweetly
                        with the dreams of the slumberers. They all knew that it was Crane, poor
                        fellow, who had finally  torn himself away
                        from his father's fascinating uncle.
                
                
                    XXI.
                    THE retreat from Hotel Helicon was picturesque in the
                        extreme. There had been much difficulty in finding vehicles to take the
                        retiring guests down the mountain to the railway station, but Tolliver had
                        come to the rescue with a mule, a horse, a cart, and anox. These, when added
                        to the rather incongruous collection of wagons and carts from every other
                        available source, barely sufficed. Tolliver led the mule with Ferris on its
                        back, while Miss Crabb and Miss Stackpole occupied the ox-cart, the former
                        acting as driver.
                    "Good-bye and good luck to ye!" the sheriff called after
                        them. "Mighty sorry ter discommode ye, but juty air juty,
                        an' a officer air no respecter of persons."
                    Mrs. Nancy Jones Black sat beside Crane in a rickety wagon, and between jolts
                        gave him many a word of wisdom on the subject of strong drink, which the
                        handsome Bourbon poet stowed away for future consideration.
                    Dunkirk and Miss Moyne rode upon the "hounds" of a naked
                        wood-wain, as happy as two blue-birds in April, while Bartley Hubbard, with
                        little Mrs. Philpot and her child and some other ladies, was in an old
                        weather-beaten barouche, a sad roelic of the ante-bellum
                        times. For the rest there were vehicles of every sort save the comfortable
                        sort, and all went slowly  winding and
                        zig-zagging down Mt. Boab toward the valley and the river. Why pursue them?
                        Once they all looked up from far down the slope and saw Hotel Helicon
                        shining like a castle of gold in the flood of Summer sunlight. Its verandas
                        were empty, its windows closed, but the flag on its wooden tower still
                        floated bravely in the breeze, its folds appearing to touch the soft
                        gray-blue sky.
                    A year later Crane and Peck met at Saratoga and talked over old times. At
                        length coming-down to the present, Crane said:
                    "Of all of us who were guests on Mt. Boab, Miss Moyne is the only
                        one who has found success. Her story, On The Heights, is
                        in its seventieth edition."
                    "Oh, well," said Peck, "that goea without the
                        saying. Anybody could succeed with her chance."
                    "Her chance, why do you say that?"
                    "Have n't you heard? Ah, I see that the news has not yet
                        penetrated the wilds of Kentucky. The open secret of Miss Moyne's
                        success lies in the fact that she has married her publisher."
                    A silence of some minutes followed, during which Crane burned his cigar very
                        rapidly.
                    "What fools we were," Peck presently ventured, "to
                        be fighting a duel about her!"
                    "No, sir," said Crane, with a far-away look  in his eyes, "no, sir, I would die
                        for her right now."
                    So the subject was dropped between them forever.
                    Some of Gaslucky's creditors bought Hotel Helicon at the sheriffs
                        sale, but it proved a barren investment.
                    The house stands there now, weather-beaten and lonely on the peak of Mt.
                        Boab, all tenantless and forlorn.
                    As to Tolliver's still-house I cannot say, but at stated intervals
                        Crane receives a small cask marked: "J'yful juice, hannel
                        with keer," which comes from his "Pap's uncle
                        Pete."
                    THE END.
                
            
        
    
