
     ----CITATION---- 
        McCutcheon, George Barr, 1866-1928. West Wind Drift: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2361
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                
                    WEST WIND DRIFT
                
                By GEORGE BARR McCUTCHEON Author of
                    "Sherry," "Black is White"
                    
                    "The City of Masks" etc.
                
                    A. L. BURT COMPANY Publishers
                    New York Published by arrangement with Dodd, Mead &
                    Company
            
            
            
            	Verso
                COPYRIGHT, 1920, BY
                    DODD, MEAD AND COMPANY, INC.
                PRINTED IN THE U. S. A.
            
        
        
            
            
                WEST WIND DRIFT
                
            	
                BOOK ONE
                ON a bright, still morning in October the Doraine sailed from a
                    South American port and turned her glistening nose to the northeast. All told,
                    there were some seven hundred and fifty souls on board; and there were stores
                    that filled her holds from end to end, grain, foodstuffs, metals, chemicals,
                    rubber and certain sinister things of war. Her passenger list contained the
                    names of men who had achieved distinction in world affairs, in finance, in
                    business, in diplomacy, in war, besides that less subtle pursuit, adventure: men
                    from both hemispheres, from all continents. It was a cosmopolitan company that
                    sailed out to sea that placid day, bound for a port six thousand miles away.
                Her departure, heavy-laden, from this South American port was properly recorded
                    in the then secret annals of a great nation; the world at large, however, was
                    none the wiser. For those were the days when sly undersea monsters of German
                    descent were prowling about the oceans, taking toll of humanity and breeding the
                    curse that was to abide with their progenitors forever.
                Down through the estuary and into the spreading bay slid the big steamer; abreast
                    the curving coast-line she drove her way for leagues and leagues, and then swept
                    boldly into the vast Atlantic desert.
                
                Four hundred years ago and more, Amerigo Vespucci had sailed this unknown
                    southern sea in his doughty caravel; he had wallowed and rocked for months over
                    a course that the Doraine was asked to cover in the wink of an
                    eye by comparison. Up from the south he had come in an age when the seas he
                    sailed were no less strange than the land he touched from time to time; the blue
                    waste of sky and sea as boundless then as now; the west wind drift as sure and
                    unfailing; the waves as savage or as mild; the star by which he laid his course
                    as far away and immutable, but he came in 1501 and his ship was alone in the
                    trackless ocean.
                The mighty Doraine was not alone; she sailed a sea whose every
                    foot was charted, whose every depth was sounded. She sailed in an age of Titans,
                    while the caravel was a frolicksome pygmy, dancing to the music of a thousand
                    winds, buffeted today, becalmed tomorrow, but always a snail on the face of the
                    waters. Four hundred years ago Vespucci and his men were lost in the wilderness
                    of waves. Out of touch with the world were they for months, aye, even years, and
                    no man knew whither they sailed nor whence they came, for those were the days
                    when the seven seas kept their secrets better than they keep them now.
                Into the path traversed by the lowly caravel steamed the towering Doraine, pointing her gleaming nose to the north and east.
                She was never seen again.
                Out from the lairs of the great American navy sped the swiftest hounds of the
                    ocean. They swept the face of the waters with a thousand sleepless eyes; they
                    called with the strange, mysterious voice that carries a thousand miles; they
                    raked the sea as with a fine-tooth comb; they searched the coast of a continent;
                    they  penetrated its rivers, circled its islands,
                    scanned its rocks and reefs, and asked a single question that had but one reply
                    from every ship that sailed the southern sea.
                For months ships of all nations searched for the missing steamer. Not so much as
                    the smallest piece of wreckage rewarded the ceaseless quest. The great vessel,
                    with all its precious cargo, had slipped into its niche among the profoundest
                    mysteries of the sea. Came the day, therefore, when the Secretary of the Navy
                    wrote down against her name the ugly sentence: "Lost with all on
                    board."
                Maritime courts issued their decrees; legatees parcelled estates, great and
                    small; insurance companies paid in hard cash for the lives that were lost, and
                    went blandly about their business; more than one widow reconsidered her thoughts
                    of self-denial; and ships again sailed the course of Amerigo Vespucci without a
                    thought of the Doraine.
                
                For months the newspapers in many lands speculated on the fate of the missing
                    liner. That a great ship could disappear from the face of the waters in these
                    supreme days of navigation without leaving so much as a trace behind was
                    inconceivable. At first there were tales of the dastardly U-boats; then came the
                    sinister reports of treachery on board resulting in the ship being taken over by
                    German plotters, with the prediction that she would emerge from oblivion as a
                    well-armed "raider" cruising in the North Atlantic; then the
                    generally accepted theory that she had been swiftly, suddenly rent asunder by a
                    mighty explosion in her hold. All opinions, all theories, all conjectures,
                    however, revolved about a single fear; that she was the victim of a German plot.
                    But in the course of events there  came a day when
                    the German Navy, ever boastful of its ignoble deeds, issued the positive and no
                    doubt sincere declaration that it had no record of the sinking of the Doraine. The fate of the ship was as much of a mystery to the
                    German admiralty as it was to the rest of the puzzled world.
                And so it was that the Doraine, laden with nearly a thousand
                souls, sailed out into the broad Atlantic and was never heard from again.
                
                    
                        CHAPTER I
                        THE Captain of the liner was an old man. He had sailed the seas for
                            two-score years, at least half of them as master. At the outbreak of the
                            Great War he was given command of the Doraine,
                            relieving a younger man for more drastic duty in the North Sea. He was
                            an Englishman, and his name, Weatherby Trigger, may be quite readily
                            located on the list of retired naval officers in the British Admiralty
                            offices if one cares to go to the trouble to look it up.
                        After two years the Doraine, with certain other vessels
                            involved in a well-known and somewhat thoroughly debated transaction,
                            became to all intents and purposes the property of the United States of
                            America; she flew the American flag, carried an American gun-crew and
                            American papers, and, with some difficulty, an English master. The
                            Captain was making his last voyage as master of the ship. An American
                            captain was to succeed him as soon as the Doraine
                            reached its destination in the United States. Captain Trigger, a little
                            past seventy, had sailed for nearly two years under the Amercan flag at
                            a time when all Englishmen were looking askance at it and wondering if
                            it was ever to take its proper place among the righteous banners of the
                            world. It had taken its place among them, and the
                            "old man" was happy.
                        His crew of one hundred and fifty was what might be aptly described as
                            international. The few Englishmen he had on board were noticeably unfit
                            for active duty in the war zone. There was a small contingent of  Americans, a great many Portuguese, some
                            Spaniards, Norwegians, and a more or less polyglot remainder without
                            national classification.
                        His First Officer was a Scotch-American, the Second an Irish-American,
                            the Chief Engineer a plain unhyphenated American from Baltimore,
                            Maryland. The purser, Mr. Codge, was still an Englishman, although he
                            had lived in the United States since he was two years old, a matter of
                            forty-seven years and three months, if we are to believe Mr. Codge, who
                            seemed rather proud of the fact that his father had neglected to
                            forswear allegiance to Queen Victoria, leaving it to his son to follow
                            his example in the case of King Edward the Seventh and of King George
                            the Fifth.
                        There were eighty-one first-cabin passengers, one hundred and nineteen in
                            the second cabin, for the two had not been consolidated on the Doraine as was the case with the harried
                            trans-Atlantic liners, and approximately three hundred and fifty in the
                            steerage. The first and second cabin lists represented many races, South
                            Americans predominating.
                        The great republics in the lower half of the hemisphere were cut off
                            almost entirely from the Old World so far as general travel was
                            concerned. The people of Argentine, Brazil and Chili turned their eyes
                            from the east and looked to the north, where lay the hitherto ignored
                            and sometime hated continent whose middle usurped the word American. A
                            sea voyage in these parlous days meant but one thing to the people of
                            South America: a visit to an unsentimental land whose traditions, if any
                            were cherished at all, went back no farther than yesterday and were to
                            be succeeded by fresh ones tomorrow. At least, such was the belief of
                            the Latin who still dozed superciliously in the glory of  his long-dead ancestors. Not having Paris,
                            or London, or Madrid, or Rome as the Mecca of his dreams, his pilgrimage
                            now carried him to the infidel realities of the North, to Washington,
                            New York, New Orleans, Newport and Atlantic City! He had the money for
                            travel, so why stay at home? He had the money to waste, so why not
                            dissipate? He had the thirst for sin, so why famish?
                        There were lovely women on board, and children with and without the
                            golden spoon; there were men whose names were known on both sides of the
                            Atlantic and whose reputations for integrity, sagacity, intellect, and,
                            it must be confessed, corruptness, (with the author's apology
                            for the inclusion); doughty but dogmatic university men who had
                            penetrated the wildernesses as naturalists, entomologists,
                            mineralogists, archaeologists, explorers; sportsmen who had forsaken the
                            lion, rhinoceros, hartebeest and elephant of Africa for the jaguar,
                            cougar, armadillo and anteater of South America; soldiers of fortune
                            whose gods had lured them into the comparative safety of South American
                            revolutions; miners, stock buyers and raisers, profiteersmen, diplomats,
                            priests, preachers, gamblers, smugglers and thieves; others who had gone
                            out for the Allies to buy horses, beeves, grain, metal, chemicals,
                            manganese and men; financiers, merchants, lawyers, writers, musicians,
                            doctors, dentists, architects; gentiles and Jews, Protestants and
                            Catholics, skeptics and infidels, in short, good men, bad men, beggar
                            men, thieves.
                        The world will readily recall such names and personalities as these: Abel
                            T. Landover, the great New York banker; Peter Snipe, the novelist;
                            Solomon Nicklestick, the junior member in the firm of Winkelwein
                            & Nicklestick, importers of hides, etc., Ninth Avenue, New  York; Moses Block, importer of rubber;
                            James January Jones, of San Francisco, promoter and financier; Randolph
                            Fitts, of Boston, the well-known architect; Percy Knapendyke, the
                            celebrated naturalist; Michael O'Malley Malone, of the law firm
                            of Eads, Blixton, Solomon, Carlson, Vecchiavalli, Revitsky, Perkins
                            & Malone, New York; William Spinney, of the Chicago Police
                            force, (and his prisoner, "Soapy" Shay, diamond
                            thief); Denby Flattner, the taxidermist; Morris Shine, the motion
                            picture magnate; Madame Careni-Amori, soprano from the Royal Opera,
                            Rome; Signor Joseppi, the new tenor, described as the logical successor
                            to the great Caruso; Madame Obosky and three lesser figures in the
                            Russian Ballet, who were coming to the United States to head a
                            long-heralded tour, "by special arrangement with the
                            Czar"; Buck Chizler, the famous jockey, and so on.
                        These were the names most conspicuously displayed by the newspapers
                            during the anxious, watchful days and weeks that succeeded the sailing
                            of the Doraine from the port in the Tropic of
                            Capricorn.
                        Dozens of cities in the United States were represented by one or more
                            persons on board the Doraine, travellers of both sexes
                            who, being denied the privilege of a customary dash to Europe for the
                            annual holiday, resolved not to be deprived of their right to wander,
                            nor the right to return when they felt inclined. Whilom, defiant rovers
                            in search of change, they scoffed at conditions and went their way
                            regardless of the peril that stalked the seas. In the main they were
                            money-spending, time-dragging charges against the resources of a
                            harassed, bewildered government, claiming protection in return for
                            arrogance.
                        
                        Far to the south, off the Falkland Islands, at the bottom of the sea, lay
                            the battered hulls of what were supposed to be the last of the German
                            fighting-ships in South Atlantic waters. Report had it, however, that
                            several well-armed cruisers had either escaped the hurricane of shells
                            from the British warships, or had been detached from the squadron before
                            the encounter took place. In any event, no vessel left a South American
                            port without maintaining a sharp lookout for prowling survivors of the
                            vanquished fleet, and no passenger went aboard who did not experience
                            the thrill of a hazardous undertaking. The ever-present and ever-ready
                            individual with official information from sources that could not be
                            questioned, travelled with remarkable regularity on each and every craft
                            that ventured out upon the Hun-infested waters. In the smoke-room the
                            invariable word went round that raiders were sinking everything in
                            sight. Every ship that sailed had on board at least one individual who
                            claimed to have been chased on a former voyage by a blockade-breaker,
                            (according to the most reliable reports, the Germans were slipping
                            warships through the vaunted British net with the most astounding ease
                            and frequency,) and there was no one with the hardihood or desire to
                            question his veracity; indeed, it was something of a joy to believe him,
                            for was he not a living and potential document to prove that the
                            merchant marine could outwit, outrace and outshoot the German pirates?
                        The Doraine was barely twenty-four hours out from port
                            and ploughing along steadily through a choppy sea when Mr. Mott, the
                            First Officer, reported to Captain Trigger that a stowaway had been
                            found on board.
                        "German?" inquired Captain Trigger tersely.
                        
                        "No, sir. At least, he doesn't look it and,
                            what's more, he doesn't act it. Claims to be American
                            born and bred."
                        "That's what a great many Germans are claiming these
                            days, Mr. Mott. We can't take any chances, you know. Where was
                            he found?"
                        Mr. Mott cleared his throat. "Ahem! He wasn't what you
                            might call found, sir. As a matter of fact he applied in person to the
                            Chief Engineer about half an hour ago and asked for a job. He said he
                            was perfectly willing to work out his passage home. Mr. Gray had him
                            conducted to me, sir, rather sharply guarded, of course, and he
                            "
                        "Fetch him here at once, Mr. Mott," commanded Captain
                            Trigger. "I'll hear what he has to say first
                            hand."
                        "Very well, sir." Mr. Mott started away, hesitated,
                            rubbed his chin dubiously, and then came back. "He's
                            having a bit of breakfast, sir, and has asked for the loan of Mr.
                            Codge's razors "
                        "What?" roared the captain.
                        "I informed him he would have to appear before you at once, sir,
                            and he said he was quite willing to do so, but would it be possible for
                            him to tidy up a bit beforehand. I am obliged to confess, sir, that I
                            have never encountered a more interesting stowaway in all my career,
                            which leads me to confess still further that I gave orders to feed him,
                            he hasn't had a mouthful to eat since we left port, owing to
                            the fact, he says, that his luggage shifted the first day out and try as
                            he would he couldn't locate it without a match, or something to
                            that effect, he rather stumped me, sir, with the graceful way he lies,
                            and then Mr. Codge agreed to let him take one of his razors, and when I
                            left him  below, sir, it seemed quite
                            certain that Mr. Gray was on the point of lending him a shirt and a
                            change of underwear. I"
                        "Good God, sir!" gasped Captain Trigger, with something
                            more than emotion in his voice. "What is this you are telling
                            me?"
                        "He seems a most likeable chap," explained Mr. Mott
                            lamely. "Quite a courteous fellow, too, sir. I forgot to
                            mention that he sent his compliments to you and asks for an interview at
                            your earliest conven"
                        "Asked for an interview? Drag him here at once by the heels, if
                            necessary. Tell him I shan't keep him waiting an
                            instant," said the captain ironically.
                        Mr. Mott still hesitated. "In the event, sir, that he is in the
                            midst of shaving "
                        "I don't care a hang what he's in the midst
                            of," exclaimed Captain Trigger. "Even in the midst of
                            changing shirts. Present my compliments to him, Mr. Mott, and say that
                            he needn't dress up on my account. I am an old-fashioned
                            sailor-man. It is nothing new to me to see men who haven't
                            shaved in a fortnight, and others who never change
                            shirts."
                        "Very well, sir," said Mr. Mott, and departed.
                        Presently he reappeared with the stowaway in charge.
                        Captain Trigger beheld a well-set-up young man of medium height, with
                            freshly shaven chin and jaws, carefully brushed hair, spotless white
                            shirt and collar, and, revealed in a quick glance, recently scrubbed
                            hands. His brown Norfolk jacket was open, and he carried a brand new,
                            though somewhat shapeless panama hat in his hand. Evidently he had
                            ceased fanning himself with it at the moment of entering the
                            captain's presence. The keen, good-looking face was warm and
                            moist as the result of a most violent soaping. He wore  corduroy riding-breeches, cavalry boots
                            that betrayed their age in spite of a late polishing at the hands of an
                            energetic and carefully directed bootblack, and a broad leather belt
                            from which only half an eye was required to see that a holster had been
                            detached with a becoming regard for neatness. His hair was thick and
                            sun-bleached; his eyes, dark and unafraid, met the stern gaze of the
                            captain with directness and respect; his lips and chin were firm in
                            repose, but they might easily be the opposite if relaxed; his skin was
                            so tanned and wind-bitten that the whites of his eyes were startlingly
                            defined and vivid. He was not a tall man, indeed, one would have been
                            justified in suspecting him of being taller than he really was because
                            of the more or less deceiving erectness with which he carried himself.
                            As a matter of fact, he was not more than five feet ten or ten and a
                            half.
                        Captain Trigger eyed him narrowly for a moment.
                        "What is your name?"
                        "A. A. Percival, sir."
                        "Your full name, young man. No initials."
                        The stowaway seemed to add an inch to his height before replying.
                        "Algernon Adonis Percival, sir," he said, a very clear
                            note of defiance in his voice.
                        The Captain looked at the First Officer, and the First Officer, after a
                            brief stare at the speaker, looked at the Captain.
                        "It's his right name, you can bet, sir," said
                            Mr. Mott, with conviction. "Nobody would voluntarily give
                            himself a name like that."
                        "You never can tell about these Americans, Mr. Mott,"
                            said the Captain warily. "They've got what they call a
                            keen sense of humour, you know."
                        
                        Mr. Percival smiled. His teeth were very white and even.
                        "I am a first and only child," he explained.
                            "That ought to account for it, sir," he went on, a
                            trifle defensively.
                        Captain Trigger did not smile. Mr. Mott, however, looked distinctly
                            sympathetic.
                        "You say you are an American, a citizen of the United
                            States?" demanded the former.
                        "Yes, sir. My home is in Baltimore."
                        "Baltimore?" repeated Mr. Mott quickly.
                            "That's where Mr. Gray hails from, sir," he
                            added, as a sort of apology to the Captain for the exclamation.
                        The Captain's gaze settled on the stowaway's spotless
                            white shirt and collar. Then he nodded his head slowly.
                        "Mr. Gray is the Chief Engineer," he explained, with
                            mock courtesy.
                        "Yes, sir, I know," responded Percival. "He
                            comes of one of the oldest and most highly connected families in
                            Baltimore. He informs me that his father"
                        "Never mind!" snapped the Captain. "We need
                            not discuss Mr. Gray's antecedents. How old are you?"
                        "Thirty last Friday, sir."
                        "Married?"
                        "No, sir."
                        "Parents living?"
                        "No, sir."
                        "And now, what the devil do you mean by sneaking aboard this
                            ship and hiding yourself in the by the way, Mr. Mott, where was he hiding?"
                        
                        Mr. Mott: "It doesn't seem to be quite clear as yet,
                            sir."
                        Captain Trigger: "What's that?"
                        Mr. Mott: "I say, it isn't quite clear. We have only
                            his word for it. You see, he wasn't discovered until he
                            accosted Mr. Shannon on the bridge and asked "
                        Captain Trigger: "On the bridge, Mr. Mott?"
                        Mr. Mott: "That is to say, sir, Mr. Shannon was on the bridge
                            and he was below on the promenade deck. He asked Mr. Shannon if he was
                            the Captain of the boat."
                        Captain Trigger: "He did, eh? Well?"
                        Mr. Mott: "He was informed that you were at breakfast, sir, no
                            one suspecting him of being a stowaway, of course, and then, it appears,
                            he started out to look for you. That's how he fell in with the
                            Chief Engineer. Mr. Gray informs me that he applied for work, admitting
                            that he was aboard without leave, or passage, or funds, or anything
                            else, it would seem. But, as for where he lay in hiding, there
                            hasn't been anything definite arrived at as yet, sir. He seems
                            to have been hiding in a rather wide-spread sort of way."
                        Mr. Percival, amiably: "Permit me to explain, Captain Trigger.
                            You see, I have been obliged to change staterooms three times.
                            Naturally, that might be expected to create some little confusion in my
                            mind. I began in the second cabin. Much to my surprise and chagrin I
                            found, too late, that the stateroom I had chosen, at random, I may say,
                            was merely in the state of being prepared for a lady and gentleman who
                            had asked to be transferred from a less desirable one. I had some
                            difficulty in getting out of it without attracting attention. I
                            don't know what I should have done  if the steward hadn't informed them that he could not move
                            their steamer-trunk until morning. There wouldn't have been
                            room for both of us under the berth, sir. If the gentleman had been
                            alone I shouldn't have minded in the least remaining under his
                            berth, but he "
                        Captain Trigger: "How did you happen to get into that room,
                            young man? The doors are never unlocked when the rooms are
                            unoccupied."
                        Mr. Percival: "You are mistaken, sir. I found at least three
                            stateroom doors unlocked that night, and my search was by no means
                            extensive."
                        Captain Trigger: "This is most extraordinary, Mr. Mott, if
                            true."
                        Mr. Mott: "It shall be looked into, sir."
                        Captain Trigger: "Go on, young man."
                        Mr. Percival: "I tried another room in the second cabin, but had
                            to abandon it also. It had no regular occupant, it was Number 22, I
                            remember, but along about midnight two men opened the door with a key
                            and came in. They were stewards. I gathered that they were getting the
                            room ready for someone else, so when they departed, very quietly, sir, I
                            sneaked out and decided to try for accommodations in the first cabin. I
                            "
                        Mr. Mott: "Did you say stewards?"
                        Mr. Percival: "That's what I took them to be."
                        Captain Trigger: "You are either lying, young man, or plumb
                            crazy."
                        Mr. Percival, with dignity: "The latter is quite possible,
                            Captain, but not the former. I managed quite easily to get from the
                            second cabin to the first. You'd be surprised to know how
                            simple it was. Running without lights as you do, sir, simplified things
                                 tremendously. I found a very sick and
                            dejected Jewish gentleman trying to die in the least exposed corner of
                            the promenade deck. At least, he said he didn't want to live. I
                            offered to put him to bed and to sit up with him all night if it would
                            make him feel a little less like passing away. He lurched at the chance.
                            I accompanied him to his stateroom, and so got a few much-needed hours
                            of repose, despite his groans. I also ate his breakfast for him.
                            Skirmishing around this morning, I found there were no unoccupied rooms
                            in the first cabin, so I decided that we were far enough from land for
                            me to reveal myself to the officer of the day, if that's what
                            you call 'em on board ship, with a very honest and laudable
                            desire to work my passage home. I can only add, Captain, that I am ready
                            and willing to do anything from swabbing floors on the upper deck to
                            passing coal at the bottom of the ship."
                        Captain Trigger stared hard at the young man, a puzzled expression in his
                            eyes.
                        "You appear to be a gentleman," he said at last.
                            "Why are you on board this ship as a stowaway? Don't
                            you know that I can put you in irons, confine you to the brig, and put
                            you ashore at the first port of call?"
                        "Certainly, sir. That's just what I am trying to avoid.
                            As a gentleman, I am prepared to do everything in my power to relieve
                            you of what must seem a most painful official duty."
                        Mr. Mott smiled. The Captain stiffened perceptibly.
                        "How did you come aboard this ship?" he demanded.
                        "As a coal passer, sir. Day before yesterday, when you were
                            getting in the last lot of coal. I had a single five dollar gold piece
                            in my pocket. It did the trick.  With that
                            seemingly insignificant remnant of a comfortable little fortune, I
                            induced one of the native coal carriers, a Portuguese nobleman, I shall
                            always call him, to part with his trousers, shirt and hat. I slipped
                            'em on over my own clothes, stuffed my boots and socks inside
                            my shirt, picked up his basket of coal, and walked aboard. It
                            isn't necessary, I suppose, to state that my career as a
                            dock-hand ceased with that solitary basket of coal, or that having once
                            put foot aboard the Doraine, I was in a position to
                            book myself as a passenger."
                        "Well, I'm damned!" said Captain Trigger.
                            "Some one shall pay for this carelessness, Mr. Mott.
                            I've never heard of anything so cool. What did you say your
                            name is, young man?"
                        "A. A. Percival, sir."
                        "Ah ahem! I see. Will it offend you, A. A., if I make so bold as
                            to inquire why the devil you neglected to book your passage in the
                            regular way, as any gentleman from Baltimore might have been expected to
                            do, and where is your passport, your certificate of health, your purse
                            and your discharge from prison?"
                        Mr. Percival spread out his hands in a gesture of complete surrender.
                        "Would you be interested in my story, Captain Trigger? It is
                            brief, but edifying. When I arrived in town, the evening before you were
                            to sail, I had a wallet well-filled with gold, currency, and so forth. I
                            had travelled nearly two thousand miles, from the foothills of the
                            Andes, to be more definite, and I had my papers, my cancelled contract,
                            and a clear right-of-way, so to speak. My personal belongings were
                            supposed to have arrived in town on the train with me. A couple of
                            cow-hide trunks, in fact. Well, they didn't  arrive. I don't know what became
                            of them. I had no time to investigate. This was the last boat I could
                            get for two or three weeks that would land me in the U. S. A. I put up
                            at the Alcazar Grand for the night. It was then too late to secure
                            passage, but I fully intended to do so the first thing in the morning.
                            There was a concert and dance at the hotel that night, and I went in to
                            look on for awhile. I ran across a friend, an engineer who was on the
                            job with me up in the hills a few months ago. He is also an American, a
                            chap from Providence, Rhode Island. Connected with the consular service
                            now. He was with a small party of Americans, am I boring you?"
                        "No, no, get on with it," urged Captain Trigger.
                        "Several of them were sailing on this ship, and they were having
                            a little farewell party. That, however, has nothing to do with the case.
                            I left them at midnight and went up to my room. Now comes the part you
                            will not believe. During the night, I sleep very soundly, some one
                            entered my room, rifled my pockets, and got away with everything I
                            possessed, except my clothes and the five-dollar gold piece I have
                            carried ever since I left home, as a lucky coin, you know. He "
                        "How did he happen to overlook your lucky coin?"
                            inquired the Captain sarcastically.
                        "Because it couldn't be a lucky coin if I carried it in
                            my purse. No coin is ever lucky that gets into my purse, Captain. I
                            always kept it tightly sewed up in the band of my trousers, safe from
                            the influence of evil companions. I did not discover the loss until
                            morning. It was then too late to do anything, as you were sailing at
                            eight. My Providence friend was not available. I knew no one else. But I
                            was determined to sail on the Doraine. That's
                            the story, sir, in brief. I  leave it to
                            you if I wasn't justified in doing the best I could under the
                            circumstances."
                        Captain Trigger was not as fierce as he looked. He could not keep the
                            twinkle out of his eye.
                        "We will see about that," he managed to say with
                            commendable gruffness. "Assuming that your story is true, why
                            are you in such a tremendous hurry to reach the United States? Skipping
                            out for some reason, eh?"
                        "Well," said the young man slowly, "you see,
                            news is a long time getting out into the wilderness where I've
                            been located for a couple of years. We knew, of course, that there was a
                            war on, but we didn't know how it was progressing. Down here in
                            this part of the world we have a war every two or three months, and
                            we've got so used to having 'em over within a week or
                            two that we just naturally don't pay much attention to them. We
                            don't even care who wins. But a couple of months ago we got
                            word up there that the United States had finally got into it with
                            everybody under the sun, and that the Germans were bound to win if we
                            didn't get a couple of million men across in pretty short
                            order. I am thirty years old, Captain, strong and healthy, and
                            I'm a good American. That's why I want to get home.
                            I've told you the truth about being robbed. I don't
                            mind losing the money, only a couple of thousand pesos, you know, but if
                            you chuck me off at the next port of call, Captain Trigger,
                            I'll curse you to my dying day. I'm willing to work,
                            I'm willing to be put in irons, I'm willing to get
                            along on bread and water, but you've just got to land me in the
                            United States. You are an Englishman. I suppose you've got
                            relatives over in France fighting the Germans. Maybe you've had
                            some one killed who is dear to you."
                        
                        "My youngest son was killed in Flanders," said the
                            Captain simply.
                        "I am sorry, sir. Well, for every Englishman and every Frenchman
                            who has died over there, my country ought to supply some one to take his
                            place. I expect to be one of those men, Captain. I have no other excuse
                            for coming aboard your ship as a stowaway."
                        The Captain still eyed him narrowly.
                        "I believe you are honest, young man. If I am deceived in you I
                            shall never trust the eyes of another man as long as I live. Sit down,
                            Mr. Percival. I shall put you to work, never fear, but in the meantime I
                            am very much interested in what you were doing up in the hills. You will
                            oblige me by going as fully as possible into all the details. I shall
                            not pass judgment on you until I've heard all
                            of your story."
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II
                        ALGERNON ADONIS PERCIVAL, civil and mining engineer, Cornell, had gone
                            through certain rather harsh stages of development in the mines of
                            Montana and later in the perilous districts of Northern Mexico. A year
                            or two prior to the breaking out of the great World War, he was sent to
                            South America to replace the general superintendent of a new
                            copper-mining enterprise in a remote section of the Andes, on the
                            Bolivian side of the mountains. Here he was in charge of the
                            heterogeneous horde of miners, labourers, structural workers and
                            assayists who were engaged in the development and extension of the vast
                            concession controlled by his company.
                        His description of the camp or town in which this motley assemblage dwelt
                            from one year's end to the other, far from civilization, was
                            illuminating to the two sea-faring men. It must be confessed, however,
                            that a sound reluctance to swallow the tale without the proverbial grain
                            of salt caused them to watch closely for the slightest sign that might
                            reveal to them the always-to-be expected and seldom successful duplicity
                            so common in those harrowing days when all men were objects of
                            suspicion. From time to time they glanced inquiringly at each other, but
                            the stranger's story was so straightforward, so lacking in
                            personal exploitation, so free from unnecessary detail, that they were
                            finally convinced that he was all that he represented himself to be and
                            that they had nothing to fear from him.
                        His long, hazardous journey by horse through the  passes down into the forests and jungles, out upon the
                            endless, sparsely settled pampas, and eventually into the remote village
                            that witnessed the passing every second day of a primitive and far from
                            dependable railway train, was presented with agreeable simplicity and
                            conciseness. He passed briefly over what might have been expanded into
                            grave experiences, and at last came, so to speak, to the gates of the
                            city, unharmed, resolute and full of the fire that knows no quenching.
                        "By the way," observed the Captain, still wary,
                            "has it occurred to you we may be justified in suspecting that
                            you deserted your post up there in the hills, and that you have betrayed
                            the confidence of your employers?" Percival had completed what
                            he evidently believed to be a full and satisfactory account of himself.
                        "I was in full charge up there, Captain Trigger. My contract had
                            but a month more to run. I appointed my own successor, and the company
                            will not be any the worse off for the change. My letter to headquarters,
                            announcing my decision not to renew the contract, went forward two weeks
                            before I left the camp. I merely anticipated the actual termination of
                            my contract by a month or so, and as I handed my resignation at once to
                            my own newly appointed superintendent, I submit that I acted in absolute
                            good faith. I may say that he accepted it without a word of protest,
                            sir. As a matter of fact, I told him in advance that I wouldn't
                            appoint him unless he agreed to accept my resignation."
                        The Captain smiled at this ingenuous explanation.
                        "I daresay I ought to put you under guard, Mr.
                            Percival," he said. "My duty is very plain. A stowaway
                            is a stowaway, no matter how you look at him.  The regulations do not leave me any choice. Maritime
                            justice is rarely tempered by mercy. However, under the circumstances, I
                            am inclined to accept your word of honour that you will not violate your
                            parole if I refrain from putting you in irons. Have I your word of
                            honour that you will not leave this ship until I hand you over to the
                            proper authorities in the United States?"
                        "You have, sir."
                        "You are a very head-strong, ambitious young man. You will not
                            jump overboard and try to beat us into port under your own
                            steam?"
                        "You may trust me, sir, never to give up the ship."
                        "And you will kill as many Germans as possible?"
                        "Yes, sir," said A. A. Percival submissively.
                        Captain Trigger arose and extended his hand.
                        "I've never done anything like this before in all my
                            years as ship's master. You ought to be flogged and stowed away
                            in the brig until you show a properly subdued spirit, young man. I
                            suppose you've heard of the
                            cat-o'-nine-tails?"
                        "My reading up to the age of fifteen was confined almost
                            exclusively to the genteel histories of pirates, buccaneers and
                            privateersmen, Captain Trigger," announced A. A. Percival,
                            taking the master's hand in a firm grip. "I wonder if
                            you know what a black-snake whip is, or a cattle-adder? Well,
                            they're both painful and convincing. As director of morals in
                            the camp I have just left behind me, it was my official duty on frequent
                            occasions to see to it that current offenders had from fifteen to fifty
                            applications of the black-snake in a public sort of way. The
                            black-snake, I may explain, could be wielded by a strong but unskilled
                            arm. It was different, however, with the cattle-adder. That had to  be handled by an expert, one who could
                            stand off twenty paces, more or less, and crack the long lash with such
                            astonishing precision that the tip end of it barely touched the back of
                            the culprit, the result being a nobby assortment of splotches that
                            looked for all the world like hives after the blood got back into them
                            again. You see, I was chief magistrate, executioner ex-officio, chief of
                            police, jury commissioner in fact, an all-around potentate. Sort of
                            Pooh-bah, you know. For serious offences, such as wife beating, wife
                            stealing, or having more than one wife at a time, we were not so
                            lenient. The offender, on conviction, was strung up by the thumbs and
                            used as a target by amateurs who desired to become proficient in the use
                            of the cattle-adder. Murderers were attended to a trifle more
                            expeditiously. They were strung up by the neck."
                        "Good God, man, do you mean to say you hung
                            men in that off-hand fashion?" cried Captain Trigger, aghast.
                        "Not without a fair trial, sir. No innocent man was ever hung.
                            There was no such thing as circumstantial evidence in that camp. The
                            guilty man was always taken red-handed. We had good laws and they were
                            rigidly enforced. There was no other way, sir. Short, sharp and
                            decisive. It's the best way. Men understand that sort of thing
                            and honest men approve of the method. You see, gentlemen, we had a hard
                            lot of characters to deal with. I wish to add, however, that before I
                            had been up there six months we had a singularly law-abiding and
                            self-respecting camp. Crime was not tolerated, not even by the men who
                            had once been criminals. If two men quarrelled, they were allowed to
                            fight it out fairly and squarely in any way they could agree upon.
                            Knives, hatchets and all other  messy
                            weapons were barred. It was either fists, pistols or rifles at a fairly
                            long range, and under the strictest rules. Duels were fought according
                            to Hoyle, and were witnessed by practically every one in camp. You will
                            perceive that Copperhead Camp was no place for a coward or a bluffer or
                            a bully. It takes a brave man to fight a duel with a chap who may be
                            only half as big as he is, but who can shoot like the devil. So you see,
                            Captain Trigger, the cat-o'-nine-tails has no terror for
                            me."
                        Mr. Mott regarded the young man with wide-open, somewhat incredulous
                            eyes.
                        "You don't look like a fire-eating, swashbuckling party
                            to me," he said.
                        "I am the most peaceable chap you've ever seen, Mr.
                            Mott. You needn't be alarmed. I'm not going to bite a
                            hole in the ship and scuttle her. Moreover, I am a very meek and lowly
                            individual on board this ship. There's a lot of difference
                            between being in supreme command with all kinds of authority to bolster
                            you up and being a rat in a trap as I am now. Up in Copperhead Camp I
                            was a nabob, here I'm a nobody. Up there I was the absolute
                            boss of five or six hundred men, I won't say I could boss the
                            women, and I made 'em all walk chalk without once losing step.
                            There were murderers and crooks, blacklegs and gunmen in my genial
                            aggregation, men whose true names we never knew, men who were wanted in
                            every part of the civilized world. The only place on earth, I suppose,
                            where they could feel reasonably at home was in that gosh-awful nowhere
                            that we called Copperhead Camp. You can't handle such men with
                            mittens. And there were good men there as well, good, strong, righteous
                            men. They were the leaven that made the 
                            whole thing palatable. Without them I could have had no authority. But I
                            dare say I am boring you. The present situation is the one
                            we're interested in, not the lordly past of your humble and, I
                            trust, obedient servant."
                        His smile was most engaging, but back of it the two seamen read strength,
                            decision, integrity. The gay, bantering, whilom attitude of this unusual
                            young man was not assumed. It was not a pose. He was not a dare-devil,
                            nor was he a care-free, unstable youth who had matured abruptly in the
                            exercise of power. On the contrary, he was, and Captain Trigger knew it,
                            the personification of confidence, an optimist to whom victory and
                            defeat are equally unavoidable and therefore to be reckoned as one in
                            the vast scheme of human endeavour; a fighter who merely rests on his
                            arms but never lays them down; a spirit that absorbs the bitters and the
                            sweets of life with equal relish.
                        Captain Trigger was not slow in making up his mind. This clean-minded,
                            clean-bodied American with the confident though respectful smile, was a
                            chap after his own heart.
                        "I hardly know what to do with you, Percival," he said,
                            a scowl of genuine perplexity in his eyes. "You are not an
                            ordinary transgressor. You are a gentleman. You have exercised an
                            authority perhaps somewhat similar to my own, possibly in some respects
                            your position up there was even more autocratic, if I may use the term.
                            I am not unconscious of all this, and yet I have no choice other than
                            that designated by law. The regulations are unalterable. It is a matter
                            of morale, pure and simple. We are compelled to treat all stowaways
                            alike. Of course, I shall not subject you to the ordinary shall we say
                            methods of "
                        
                        "Pardon me, Captain," broke in the young man, his smile
                            no longer in evidence; "I am asking no favours. I expect to be
                            treated as an ordinary stowaway. Set me to work at anything you like and
                            I will make as good a job of it as possible."
                        "I was about to suggest that you serve as a sort of assistant to
                            Mr. Codge, the purser. I've no doubt he could find something
                            for you to do and "
                        "If that is your way of punishing me, Captain Trigger, of course
                            there is nothing for me to do but to submit."
                        "Eh? I am sure you will not find Mr. Codge a hard taskmaster. He
                            is quite a good-natured man."
                        "Extremely kind and considerate," hastily added Mr.
                            Mott, reassuringly.
                        "But I don't want to loaf my passage home,"
                            protested Percival. "I want to be sentenced to the hardest sort
                            of labour, if you don't mind. I don't want to owe this
                            steamship company a penny when I step ashore. It is your duty, sir, as
                            master of this ship, to put me on the meanest job you've
                            got."
                        "My word!" exclaimed Captain Trigger.
                        "I'm blessed!" said Mr. Mott.
                        "Up where I've been running things and cock-walking
                            like a foreman in a shirt-waist factory, I made the rules and I enforced
                            them. I want to say to you that no favours were shown. If the Princes of
                            Wales had drifted in there, dead broke, and asked for something to eat,
                            he would have got it, but you bet your life he'd have had to
                            work for it. A tramp's a tramp, no matter how much purple
                            he's been used to, and you can say the same for a stowaway.
                            What's the matter with me taking the place of one of those
                            deck-hands, or whatever you call 'em, you lost last
                            night?"
                        
                        "What's that?"
                        "Swabbers, maybe you call 'em. Men that mop up the
                            decks after everybody else has turned in."
                        "What are you talking about?" demanded the Captain,
                            sitting up very straight. Percival stared at him in astonishment.
                        "I thought you knew about it, of course. Good Lord, sir,
                            don't you know that a couple of your men jumped overboard last
                            night, or early this morning, rather? Just as the ship was rounding that
                            big headland "
                        "Good God, man, are you in earnest?" cried Mr. Mott,
                            starting toward the door.
                        "I certainly am. I took them for deserters, of course, not
                            suicides, because they didn't forget to put on life preservers
                            before they jumped. I haven't a doubt they were picked up, so
                            there's no use worrying. A minute or two after they went over,
                            from the bottom deck or whatever you call it, I heard a motor boat
                            popping away like a gatling-gun not far,"
                        But he was alone. Captain Trigger had dashed out of the cabin in the wake
                            of the First Officer.
                        Algernon Adonis Percival stared blankly at the open door.
                        "Good Lord, why all this excitement over a couple of
                            bums?" he said, addressing space. "If they were
                            working for me, I'd thank the Lord to be rid of 'em so
                            cheaply. They Hello!"
                        The Second Officer popped into the room.
                        "Come along with me," he snapped. "Lively,
                            now. Just where and when did you see a couple of men go overboard?
                            Quietly, now. We don't want to alarm the passengers."
                        
                        Within five minutes after Percival's disturbing report, the
                            officers of the Doraine, with set faces, were employed
                            in a swift but silent investigation. Before many more minutes had
                            passed, at least a portion of the stowaway's story had been
                            verified. Two men were found to be missing, although, strange to say,
                            they had not been missed up to the time that noses were counted. They
                            were down on the ship's roster as Norwegians, New York
                            registry, and had come down with the Doraine on her
                            trip from the north.
                        Percival repeated his story, but had little to add in the way of detail.
                            He had stolen on deck some time after midnight for a breath of air,
                            risking detection, and from the shelter of a secluded corner well aft
                            had heard the two men swabbing the deck below. Suddenly they ceased
                            work, and he prepared to creep back to a place of safety, concluding
                            that they were on their way to the upper deck.
                        He went to the rail to listen. The two men were almost directly below
                            him, and he could see the upper portions of their figures as they leaned
                            far out over the rail, apparently looking into the swirling waters
                            below. Quite distinctly he heard one of them say, in English:
                            "We got to do it now or never." The other mumbled
                            something he could not distinguish. He was only mildly interested, not
                            anticipating what was to follow. For a few seconds he heard them
                            scrambling and puffing and then he saw them quite plainly on the rail,
                            their figures bulky with what he identified as life buoys, a faint light
                            from somewhere falling directly upon the grayish-white objects in which
                            they were swathed.
                        One of them uttered the word "Now!" and to his
                            amazement they shot out, as one man, into the blackness  below. There was a single splash. For a
                            moment or two he stood spell-bound. Then he heard some one running along
                            the deck below. Convinced that the incident had been witnessed by
                            others, he darted into the companion-way and made his way back to the
                            stateroom of the sick passenger. Through the lightless porthole he
                            listened for the terrifying shout, "Man overboard!" It
                            did not come, but his ear caught the staccato beat of a motor near by,
                            striking up abruptly out of the swish of rushing waters. In his
                            ignorance, he decided that it was a boat from the ship going to the
                            rescue of the daring deserters, and calmly waited for the engines of the
                            mighty Doraine to cease their rhythmic pulsing. He
                            fell asleep.
                        When he awoke, he concluded that he had dreamed the whole thing. This
                            conclusion was justified when he asked his wretched
                            "bunkie" if he had observed him leaving the room
                            during the night. The answer was a mournful negative, followed by the
                            sufferer's more or less positive declaration that he was
                            staring wide awake the whole damned night long.
                        Percival, unconvinced, boldly made his way to the lower deck and
                            discovered that two life buoys were missing from their supports, a
                            circumstance that put an end to the hope that he had dreamed it all. His
                            own affairs however now loomed large, taking precedence over the plight
                            of the men who had deliberately abandoned the ship. In any case, the
                            ship's officers had done everything that could be done in the
                            matter. He was genuinely astonished to learn that the act of the two men
                            was unknown to the Captain.
                        A hurried conference of the ship's officers and the commander of
                            the gun-crew resulted in a single but definite conclusion. The
                            desperate, even suicidal manner  in which
                            the men left the ship signified but one thing: the absolute necessity of
                            flight before an even more sinister peril confronted them. Not a man on
                            board doubted for an instant that they had taken their chance in the
                            waters as a part of a preconceived plan, and they had taken it with all
                            the devilish hardihood of fanatics.
                        The presence of the motor craft, so far out from port, lurking with
                            silent engine in the path of the steamship, could have but one
                            significance. It represented one of the carefully thought-out details in
                            a stupendous, far-reaching plot.
                        If there were signals between the motor boat and the two men aboard the
                            steamship, they were not observed by the lookouts. In all probability no
                            signals were given. The little craft was to be at a certain place at a
                            certain hour, and she was there! The men who jumped knew that she would
                            be there. A black, tiny speck on the broad expanse of water, sheltered
                            by a night of almost stygian darkness, she lay outside the narrow radius
                            to which visual observation was confined, patiently waiting for the Doraine to pass a designated point. There was to be no
                            miscalculation on the part of either the boat or the men who went over
                            the side of the big steamship into the seething waters.
                        The closest inquiry among the members of the crew failed to reveal any
                            one who had witnessed the leap of the men. Percival was positive,
                            however, that some one ran along the lower deck, but whether toward or
                            away from the spot where the men went over he had no means of knowing.
                            He offered the suggestion that there were three persons actually
                            involved, and that one of them, more than likely the victim of a
                            coin-flipping decision, had remained on board to complete the work  the trio had been chosen to perform, even
                            though death was to be his lot.
                        The Second Officer had been regarding Percival with ever-growing
                            suspicion.
                        "Is there anything to prove, young man, that you are not the one who stayed behind to complete the
                            job?" he demanded at last.
                        "Nothing," said Percival promptly, and somewhat
                            scathingly, "nothing at all, except the trifling fact that I am
                            here talking it over with you gentlemen instead of attending to my
                            business, as any honest conspirator should be doing. You may be quite
                            sure of one thing: if there is a man on board this ship whose business
                            it is to finish the job, he isn't idle. He's getting
                            on with the job at this minute, gentlemen. If you'll take my
                            advice you will institute two investigations. First, search the ship
                            from stem to stern, from keel to bridge, for bombs or infernal machines.
                            Second, ask your rich passengers if they have lost anything in the shape
                            of pearls, diamonds, coin of the realm, or anything else worth jumping
                            into the ocean for."
                        Captain Trigger looked at him over the top of his eye-glasses.
                        "You are not in Copperhead Camp at present, Mr.
                            Percival," he said stiffly.
                        The young man flushed. "I beg your pardon, Captain
                            Trigger," he said simply.
                        "All you have to do," said the Second Officer, fixing
                            him with an inimical eye, "is to answer questions and not to
                            tell us how to run this ship."
                        Percival did his best to hold back the retort, but, failing, released it
                            with considerable sharpness:
                        "Well, if I was running this ship I'd head her for
                            shore pretty damned quick."
                        
                        The American in command of the gun-crew was the only one who smiled, and
                            he did it openly. Captain Trigger's face darkened redly.
                        "Take this man in charge, Mr. Shannon. He wants work. Give it
                            him. Under guard."
                        "Am I suspected, Captain Trigger, of being in league "
                        "Every man, every woman on board this ship is
                            suspected," said the Captain with decision. "Every
                            one, sir, from myself down. The rest of us grasp that fact, even if you
                            do not."
                        And so it was that while Algernon Adonis Percival, under the watchful eye
                            of a burly seaman, fell to work scraping the scuppers on the boat deck,
                            the stern business of searching the ship went forward with a
                            thoroughness that left no room for doubt as to the fears and
                            apprehensions of the men who had her in charge. Despite the fact that
                            intensive, anxious hours of delving revealed no hidden, sinister agent
                            of destruction, there was no relaxation on the part of the officers and
                            crew. One by one the passengers were examined; their rooms and their
                            luggage were systematically overhauled. No one resented these drastic
                            operations, for by midday the whole ship's company knew what
                            had transpired during the night. Eagerly they answered the questions,
                            cheerfully they submitted to the examination of their effects, and then
                            fell silent and subdued, oppressed by the suspense that hung over the
                            ship like a cloud. Crew and passengers alike underwent the most rigid
                            questioning, the high and the low, the rich and the poor, the young and
                            the old.
                        Early that morning, in fact some time prior to the time that Percival
                            told his story, the wireless operator reported that his transmitter was
                            out of order. While  he was satisfied that
                            the apparatus had not been tampered with, he was plainly affected by the
                            rather grim coincidence. He was an old and trusted man in the service,
                            competent, efficient and loyal.
                        His assistant, the night operator, however, had made less than half a
                            dozen voyages on the Doraine. He was an Englishman, a
                            cripple; twice he had been rescued after vessels on which he sailed were
                            sent to the bottom by German submarines. His credentials were flawless.
                            He was on duty during the night just past, and had picked up several
                            indistinct, incomplete radio messages. There was nothing wrong with the
                            receiving or transmitting apparatus when he went off duty at six in the
                            morning, and as his superior came on at the same hour, they exchanged
                            greetings at the door of the wireless house, it was absolutely
                            impossible for any one to have entered the well-guarded room without
                            attracting attention. Cruise, the chief radio-man, had his assistant
                            routed out of bed and together they worked like beavers over the
                            disabled mechanism.
                        Hour after hour, the nervous, uneasy passengers paced the decks. Few
                            remained indoors, and few possessed the calmness to loll in deck-chairs.
                        Percival toiled cheerfully, but with eye and ear alert for the first
                            inkling of definite peril. With commendable thoughtfulness, he had shed
                            the clean white shirt and collar so generously supplied by his fellow
                            townsman, and had donned a commodious sea-jacket.
                        He could not help observing the dark, suspicious glances cast upon him by
                            the deck-walkers, nor were his ears proof against audible comments.
                            Mothers nudged their children and said, in slightly lowered but
                            distinctly impressive tones:
                        "That's the man. He's a stowaway."
                        
                        "See, Wilfred, see the man? No, no! The one with the mop, dear.
                            Don't go near him."
                        "What a dreadful looking creature he is."
                        "The Captain captured him this morning away down in the bottom
                            of the ship. He was stealing a ride."
                        "Poor fellow! He doesn't look like a bad man, does
                            he?"
                        And so on and so forth, as the day went along.
                        Masculine strollers had very decided opinions about him. Mr. Landover,
                            the banker, stopped to discuss the toiling menial with Mr. Nicklestick,
                            Mr. Block and Mr. Fitts.
                        "He ought to be in irons," said Mr. Landover, glowering
                            at Percival. "That's what I told the Captain a little
                            while ago. He's a bad egg, that fellow is. I'm a
                            pretty good judge of men, gentlemen, and I don't often make
                            mistakes. That fellow is a fugitive from justice, if he isn't
                            something worse. Observe the cut of his mouth ah! see that? What did I
                            tell you? Did you ever see a more evil grin?"
                        "Take it from me," said Mr. Nicklestick, "that
                            guy knows a good deal more about what is going on aboard this ship than
                            he lets on. He ain't as simple as he looks. I told Captain
                            Trigger just now that he ought to give him a dose of the third degree.
                            That's the way to get to the bottom of this business. String
                            him up by the thumbs till he squeals. What say, Mr. Fitts?"
                        Mr. Fitts, the architect, was a mild man.
                        "He strikes me as a rather honest looking sort of
                            chap," he said, and was promptly glared at by his companions.
                            "Of course," he hastened to add, "I am not
                            saying that he is all right. He may be as crooked as
                            the deuce. I'm only saying he's got a rather pleasing
                            sort of face."
                        
                        "The most innocent, open-faced young fellow we ever had in the
                            bank," said Mr. Landover, "turned out to be the
                            damnedest rascal I've ever encountered."
                        "How did you happen to have him in the bank if you are such a
                            good judge of men?" inquired Mr. Fitts, utterly without malice.
                        Mr. Landover reddened. "My dear sir, I do not come in contact
                            with every employ of the bank. You forget that it is quite an immense
                            institution."
                        "It sure is," said Mr. Nicklestick.
                            "I'm thinking of transferring our account to your
                            bank, Mr. Landover. We've been banking with "
                        "I vas telling my vife at lunch," broke in Mr. Block,
                            twitching his Hebraic nose emphatically, "not that we could eat
                            any lunch, by gracious, no! I vas telling her I bet my boots dere
                            ain't enough life-boats to get as much as half of us off safe
                            in case something happens. I counted up all the life-boats I could see,
                            and ven I estimate the number of peoples on board, w'y, by
                            gracious, the loss of life vould be frightful, gentlemen. The only
                            chance ve would haf would be for approximadely fifty percent of the
                            peoples on board to be killed outright by the explosion."
                        "I hear there is a detective from Chicago on board, with a
                            prisoner," ventured Mr. Fitts. "Why doesn't
                            the Captain ask him to have a look at this stowaway fellow?"
                        "What would be the good of that?" demanded Mr.
                            Landover. "I never saw a detective in my life that knew what to
                            do in an emergency. Soon as you get one of them where he can't
                            telephone in to headquarters for instructions he's as helpless
                            as a baby. Don't talk to me about detectives. Why, this fellow
                            would simply laugh in his face."
                        
                        "Just as he is laughing in yours at this moment, Mr.
                            Landover," pursued Mr. Fitts pleasantly.
                        "The damned rascal," said Mr. Landover, and stalked
                            away.
                        "There goes one of the biggest figures in the United
                            States," said Mr. Nicklestick, looking after the banker. His
                            remark was addressed to Mr. Fitts. "I wish I had his
                            brains."
                        "Dey vouldn't do you any good, Nicklestick,"
                            said Mr. Block, "unless you had his money too also."
                        "If I had his brains," said Mr. Nicklestick,
                            "he wouldn't have his money, so what's the
                            difference?"
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III
                        MR. BLOCK looked uneasily out over the tumbling ocean, focusing his gaze
                            on a section of the horizon that for want of something more definite
                            than mere hope lay in a direct line with the City of New York.
                        "And ven you stop to think," said he wistfully,
                            "that ve are still something like six thousand miles from home,
                            oh, vell! Vat's the use? I bet you I never go so far avay from
                            my business again. Vat a fool I vas to make this trip ven the whole
                            ocean is full of submarines and German agents and plotters and Yes, vat
                            a fool ven I had so many high-priced men vorking for me who vas crazy to
                            come. But my vife she vould do it. Paris and London every year it used
                            to be, so she must haf a little holiday or she vill die, she say. Vell,
                            here ve are. And ven I think vat a long holiday it is going to be maybe,
                            by gracious, I could kick myself for not giving in to my brother-in-law
                            ven he begged so hard to be allowed to make the trip because he needed
                            the change from not being avay from the office for five years, and his
                            vife and children too. His vife she needed a change as much as he, vat
                            with not being able to get into any good hotels in the summer time and
                            not being able to keep out of them in the vinter time, she vas nearly
                            distracted. No, I vas selfish. My vife she vas selfish too, and him her
                            own brother. Vy shouldn't he haf a vacation vonce in
                            awhile?"
                        
                        He turned abruptly to the sailor who lounged near the perspiring
                            Percival.
                        "How far is it to land, my frient?" he inquired.
                        The sailor touched his cap. "Which way, sir?" he asked
                            solemnly. "Fore or aft?"
                        (Percival said to himself: "By golly, I'll bet that man
                            is an American.")
                        "Vat? Land, you know vat I mean, the end of the ocean. How far
                            avay is it?"
                        The sailor calculated. "Well, the nearest land, sir, I should
                            say, is about three hundred miles away, to port."
                        "How deep is it here?" asked Mr. Nicklestick, moving
                            away from the rail suddenly.
                        The sailor glanced down at the water, squinted an eye, and then spoke
                            reassuringly.
                        "It ain't half as deep here as it is a little furder
                            on," he said. "It's only a shade over three
                            miles where we are now, sir. We're comin' to the
                            deepest part of the ocean, ought to be there inside of a couple of
                            hours. Here, you! On the job, on the job!"
                        "You ought to search that man carefully," advised Mr.
                            Nicklestick.
                        "I have," growled the sailor. "He says he
                            never uses it in that form. I guess he's tellin' the
                            truth."
                        "Never uses what?"
                        "Tobacco, sir."
                        "Oh!" said Mr. Nicklestick, and, catching a glimpse of
                            Madame Obosky emerging upon the deck, unceremeniously deserted his
                            companions and hurried off to join her, his speed being suddenly
                            accelerated by the spectacle of Mr. Shine, the motion picture magnate,
                            who approached the lady from an equi-distant station and with similar
                            haste. Mr. Block, being a trifle near-sighted  and in some doubt as to the whereabouts of his wife, peered
                            here and there intently, and then bore down upon the celebrated Russian
                            dancer, who, it would seem, was in dire need of consolation.
                        Mr. Fitts followed them with a glance over his glasses and then turned to
                            the sailor man.
                        "I suppose it's against orders for me to speak to this
                            man," he said.
                        "Yes, sir."
                        The architect sighed, and walked away.
                        The parade became more interesting as the lack of news from the
                            investigators restored a sort of hopeful optimism to the breasts of the
                            anxious company. Those who had maintained a stubborn air of bravado, now
                            became almost offensively jaunty. Others, frankly terrified at the
                            outset, sauntered timidly away from the life-boats to which they were
                            assigned. Every one was glad that the Captain had ordered a life-boat
                            drill on the first afternoon out, and every one was glad that he had
                            ignored the demand of Mr. Landover that the boats be lowered the instant
                            he discovered that his passengers were in peril. No news was good news,
                            argued the majority, and jesting was in order.
                        Peter Snipe, the novelist, got out a pad of paper and began jotting down
                            impressions. Madam Careni-Amori and Signor Joseppi exchanged the first
                            friendly words they had spoken to each other in weeks, and in full view
                            of an entranced audience linked arms and strode bravely to and fro, the
                            former clasping a huge jewel case to her ample bosom, the latter chafing
                            perceptibly under the weight of an invisible belt stuffed to its
                            capacity with banknotes and gold. Chilean ladies and Chilean gentlemen,
                            dazzling Brazilian ladies and  pompous
                            Brazilian gentlemen, smug Argentinians, lordly Castilians, garrulous
                            Portuguese, lofty English gentlemen and supercilious English ladies,
                            friendly and irrepressible Americans, all of them swinging their
                            sea-legs with new-found abandon clattered solidly around the wind-swept
                            circuit. New faces appeared in the procession, new voices were raised
                            with energy, new figures sprang into existence with marvellous rapidity.
                            It seemed to Percival that the population doubled and tripled and
                            quadrupled with every throb of the powerful engines. He saw his
                            "bunkie" of the night before, the man who was trying
                            so hard to die and couldn't, he saw him plunging along with the
                            throng, pale but valiant, ferociously glaring at every one who smoked.
                        A small group of American nurses, some young and pretty, others young and
                            homely, but all of them sprightly and clear-eyed, nine of them, in fact
                            tramped by in "columns of three."
                        Percival's guardian jerked his head in their direction after
                            they had passed, and volunteered this bit of information:
                        "Hornswoggled, them girls was. Come all the way down from New
                            York six months ago. Promised double pay and plenty of work in the
                            American colony. Sore as crabs, all of 'em. They got double pay
                            all right, all right, but there was some misunderstandin' as to
                            what single pay was to be to start off with. Single pay turned out to be
                            just whatever suited the people that employed 'em,
                            seein's they were nearly seven thousand miles away from God and
                            up against it, so they're beatin' it back home to
                            volunteer for service in France. I heard one of 'em say she
                            could save more money  workin' for
                            nothin' in France than she could earn in a year down here at
                            double pay. What'd you say your name was, young
                            feller?"
                        "Percival."
                        "I mean your last name."
                        "That's it."
                        "Come off! Nobody ever had a last name like that."
                        "You ought to hear what my first name is, and my middle one,
                            too. You said a little while ago you'd never seen any one of my
                            size with bigger and harder muscles. Well, if you knew what my full name
                            is, old man, you'd understand why I began developing them,
                            I've got a lot more too that you can't see, when I
                            first began going to school."
                        "What is your other names?" inquired the sailor
                            curiously.
                        "Algernon Adonis," said Percival.
                        The sailor was silent for a moment, thinking of the proper thing to say.
                            Then he said:
                        "You're dead right. It takes a heap of muscle to
                            pertect a name like that."
                        Three women stopped in front of the two men. Percival kept his eyes
                            lowered.
                        "Why, why, Auntie, I know him," fell from the lips of
                            one of the trio. There was not only surprise in her voice but a trace of
                            awe as well.
                        The swabber looked up quickly. He found himself gazing straight into the
                            eyes of the speaker. Her lips were parted, her head was bent slightly
                            forward, her eyes expressed utter incredulity and bewilderment. Her
                            companion, an elderly lady, and a bespectacled young woman who carried
                            an arm-load of steamer-rugs, stared not at him but at the girl who had
                            delivered this startling announcement.
                        
                        "I mean I, that is, I may be mistaken," stammered the
                            latter, suddenly averting her eyes. A wave of crimson swept over her
                            face.
                        "Undoubtedly," exclaimed the elderly lady with great
                            positiveness. Turning to inspect the object under discussion, she
                            sustained a shock that caused her to stiffen and draw in her breath
                            quickly.
                        Percival was smiling in a most friendly and encouraging manner. He went
                            farther, and lifted his disreputable white canvas hat.
                        "Oh, goodness!" exclaimed the young lady in a sort of
                            panic. "Are you is it really you, Mr. Percival?"
                        Mr. Percival glanced inquiringly at his guard.
                        "That's his name, Miss," said that worthy.
                            "And that's one of the three reasons why he's
                            got them muscular arms you're lookin' at. Sorry,
                            though, but my orders are not to allow any one to speak to
                            him."
                        "Are you crazy, Ruth?" cried the older lady, aghast.
                            "It's the stowaway every one is talking about. The one
                            who tried to blow up the ship."
                        The young lady returned Percival's smile, rather a diffident,
                            uncertain effort, to be sure, but still a smile, and murmured something
                            about night before last at the Alcazar Grand.
                        "What are you saying, Ruth? Do you mean to say you met this man
                            at the Alcazar Grand?"
                        "Yes, Aunt Julia," said the other, wrinkling her pretty
                            forehead in perplexity. "He he danced with me."
                        "He you danced with him?" gasped the horrified Aunt
                            Julia.
                        "Don't you remember? Phil Morton introduced him to us.
                            I I can't believe my eyes."
                        "I can't believe mine," snapped the elder
                            woman.  "I never saw this fellow
                            before in my life. The idea! Phil Morton having a friend like You are
                            mistaken. And people are staring at us."
                        "Just the same," said her niece, stubbornly,
                            "I did dance with him, and, what's
                            more, I danced more than once with him. Didn't I, Mr.
                            Percival?"
                        Mr. Percival, still beaming, again looked at the sailor appealingly.
                        "You can tell it to me," said the latter, furtively
                            glancing to the right and left before making the concession.
                        Looking straight into the sailor's eyes, Percival said:
                        "Yes, Miss Clinton. I had four dances with you, and a lemon
                            squash."
                        "Wait a moment, Aunt Julia," protested the young lady,
                            holding back. "Would you mind telling me, Mr. Percival, how you
                            happen to be here and in this plight? You didn't mention
                            sailing on the Doraine."
                        Mr. Percival, to the sailor: "Neither did you, Miss Clinton. You
                            certainly are no more surprised than I am."
                        "Why are you on board as a stowaway? Phil Morton told me you
                            belong to an old Baltimore family and had all kinds of that is, you were
                            quite well-off."
                        Mr. Percival, to the sailor: "Please don't blush, Miss
                            Clinton. I'm not the least bit sensitive. Money isn't
                            everything. I seem to be able to get along without it. Later on, I hope
                            to have the opportunity to explain just why "
                        "That'll do," interrupted the sailor.
                            "Here comes the Captain."
                        Captain Trigger hove in sight around the corner of the deck building,
                            with Chief Engineer Gray and the Second Officer.
                        
                        "I don't know what to make of you," said Miss
                            Clinton, sorely puzzled. Her aunt was clutching her arm. "You
                            seemed so awfully jolly the other night. And and just look at you
                            now."
                        She moved away, followed by the bespectacled young woman and the
                            steamer-rugs, graceful despite the sudden yank with which her aunt set
                            her in motion. Percival managed to keep an eye on her till she turned
                            the corner. Then he sighed.
                        The Captain halted in front of him.
                        "Are you acquainted with Mrs. Spofford and her niece,
                            Percival?" he inquired.
                        "Miss Clinton has done me the honour to remember meeting me
                            night before last at the Alcazar Grand, sir. Mrs. Spofford is not so
                            generous."
                        "I see," said Captain Trigger reflectively.
                            "You will report at once to Mr. Gray. He will give you a less
                            public job, as you call it." A twinkle came into his eyes.
                            "He doesn't like the hat you're wearing. Nor
                            the shirt. Nor the boots."
                        "Thank you, sir."
                        "And, by the way, Percival, as soon as you are slightly
                            refurbished I want you to stroll through the second cabin and if
                            possible identify the two stewards who came to No. 22. Let me see, was
                            it during the day or at night?"
                        "Some time during the night, sir. Eleven or half-past, I should
                            say."
                        "Very well."
                        An hour later he reported to Captain Trigger. "I have seen all
                            of the stewards, sir, according to Mr. Codge, and I do not recognize any
                            of them as the men who came to No. 22. I had a fairly good view of  them, too, from beneath the lower berth.
                            They spoke in a language I did not understand "
                        "Do you understand German?"
                        "No, sir. I know it when I hear it, however. They were not
                            speaking German. I may have been wrong, but I came to the conclusion
                            that they were transferring some one to No. 22. They brought in two
                            suitcases, and left them when they went out. I "
                        Captain Trigger brought his clenched fist down on the table with a
                            resounding, emphatic bang.
                        "Now, we have it! That Chicago detective is right, by
                            gad!"
                        He turned to the small group of officers clustered behind him. Fresh
                            alarm, real consternation, had leaped into the eyes of every man of
                            them.
                        "Then then, that means our search isn't over?"
                            cried Mr. Mott, starting up.
                        "It does! Every inch of this ship, every damned inch of it, from
                            stem to stern. Overlook nothing, Mr. Mott. Don't delay a
                            second."
                        Percival was alone with the agitated Captain an instant later.
                            Trigger's eyes were rather wild and bloodshot. The younger
                            man's face blanched. He knew now that the danger was real. He
                            waited for the Captain to speak.
                        "Percival, the two men you saw in 22 were not stewards. They
                            were the men who jumped overboard. You tell me they left two bags there
                            when they went out of the room. Well, they were not there this morning
                            when the regular steward went into the room. They have disappeared. But
                            the contents of those bags are still somewhere on board this ship. And
                            if they are not found in time, by gad, sir, we will all be in Kingdom
                            Come before we know it."
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER IV
                        THE first explosion occurred at eleven minutes past six. The chart-house
                            and part of the bridge were blown to pieces. Three dull, splintering
                            crashes ensued in rapid succession, proving beyond question that the
                            bombs were set to automatically explode at a given time. One of them
                            wrecked the engine-room; another blew a great hole in the stern of the
                            ship, above the water line; the third destroyed the wireless house and
                            carried away a portion of the deck with it.
                        There were eight in all of these devilish machines in the heart of the
                                Doraine. Some time prior to the first explosion,
                            the feverish searchers had uncovered four of them, cunningly planted in
                            the most vital parts of the ship. Two were taken from the lower hold,
                            one at each end of the vessel, and two more were found close to the
                            carefully protected section of the vessel in which a rather
                            insignificant but deadly shipment of high explosives was stored.
                        The discovery of the four bombs and their immediate consignment to the
                            sea saved the ship from being blown to bits. With another hour to spare,
                            it is more than probable the remaining four would have been found,
                            notwithstanding the amazing cleverness with which they were hidden, so
                            thorough and so dogged was the search. Confusion, terror, stupefaction
                            and finally panic followed the successive blasts. The decks were strewn
                            with people prostrated by the violent upheavals, and many there were who
                            never got up again. Stunned,  dazed,
                            bewildered, those who were able to do so scrambled to their feet only to
                            be hurled down again and again. Shrieks, groans, prayers, and curses,
                            filled the brief, ghastly silences between the muffled detonations. The
                            great vessel surged and rolled and plunged like a tortured animal.
                        The splintering of wood, the rending of plates, the shattering of glass,
                            and above all this horrid turmoil the mighty roaring and hissing of
                            steam! . . . And the wild, gurgling cries of the frantic unfortunates
                            who had leaped into the sea!
                        Out of the chaos with incredible swiftness came the paralysis of despair,
                            and out of that slowly but surely groped the never-failing courage of
                            the men who go down to the sea in ships. Hoarse commands lifted above
                            the groans and prayers, and strong but shaken figures sprang with
                            mechanical precision to the posts allotted them. Life-boat after
                            life-boat went down into the sea that glistened with the slanting rays
                            of an untroubled sun, low-lying at the end of day.
                        Fire broke out in several places. Down into the bowels of the ship
                            plunged the resolute, undaunted heroes who remained behind, the chosen
                            complement reserved for just such an emergency by the far-seeing master.
                        Above the hissing of steam and the first feeble cracklings of flame, rose
                            the stentorian voice of the Captain from his post at the base of the
                            demolished bridge.
                        "Fight, men! Fight! Fight! There are dying men below! Stand by!
                            Fight for them!"
                        He was bloody and almost unrecognizable as he stood there clutching a
                            stanchion for support. His legs were rigid, his body swayed, but his
                            spirit was as staunch  as the star that had
                            guided him for fifty years through the trackless waste.
                        And while these doughty, desperate spirits fought the fire and smoke with
                            every means at their command, down in the suffocating depths of the
                            ship, braving not only the peril visible and at hand, but the prospect
                            of annihilation in the event that a belated bomb projected its hideous
                            force into the nest of high explosives, while these men fought, the
                            smiling, placid sea was alive with small white craft that bobbed in the
                            gleaming sunlight, life-boats crowded to the gunwales with shuddering,
                            bleak-eyed men, women and children waiting to pick up those who stayed
                            behind, and who inevitably would be driven overboard by the resistless,
                            conquering flames.
                        Cruising about at a safe distance from the menacing hull, these boats
                            managed to rescue a few of the beings who had leaped overboard in the
                            first mad panic of fear, but many there were who went down never to be
                            seen again. No boat was without its wounded and its dead; no boat was
                            without its stricken, anxious-eyed survivors who watched and prayed for
                            the salvation of loved ones left behind. With straining eyes they
                            searched the surface of the sea, peered at the occupants of near and
                            distant boats, stared at the scurrying figures on the decks of the
                            smoking steamer, hoping, always hoping and always sobbing out the
                            endless prayer.
                        At last, as the sun sank below the blue-black horizon, exhausted,
                            red-eyed, gasping men struggled up from the drenched, smothering
                            interior of the ship, and hurled themselves, not into the sea, but prone
                            upon the decks! They had conquered! The scattered, vagrant  fires, attacked in their infancy, while
                            still in the creeping stage, had been subdued.
                        Darkness fell. A chill night air stole out of the east, stealthily
                            trailing the sun. Will-o'-the-wisp lights bespecked the sea,
                            surrounding the black hulk that lay motionless in the center of the
                            circle. Lanterns in a score or more of small boats bobbed fitfully in
                            the gentle swell. Presently lights appeared on board the Doraine, one here, one there, then others in twos and threes,
                            some of them stationary, others moving slowly from place to place. The
                            life-boats crept closer, still closer. Then, out from the silent hulk,
                            came the voice of man. It was the voice of the First Officer, hoarse and
                            unrecognizable, but sharp with authority. Other voices repeated the
                            commands from various parts of the ship, commands to the encircling
                            will-o'-the-wisps.
                        The word came down to the scores who filled the boats that they were to
                            lie by until sunrise, keeping in close contact with each other and at no
                            great distance from the ship. The most thorough, careful examination of
                            the steamer was in progress. If it was found that she was in no danger
                            of foundering, and the word was most reassuring, all of them would be
                            taken aboard in the morning. Nothing could be done at present. A few
                            hours more would tell the tale.
                        And then, for the first time since the disaster, the note of the croaker
                            was heard. Each and every boat contained at least one individual who
                            knew exactly what ought to be done in a crisis like this.
                        Mr. Landover addressed the benumbed, unresisting occupants of the boat
                            into which he had climbed with commendable reluctance as one of the last
                            persons to leave the ship.
                        "Why don't they begin sending out S. O. S. calls?  What's the wireless for, if not
                            to be used at a time like this? Say, you! Yell up
                            there to some of those damned muddled-headed idiots and tell them what
                            to do. Tell them that I say for them to send out calls for help.
                            What's that? What did you say?"
                        The steward in charge of the boat repeated his remark and Mr. Landover at
                            once said he would report him to Captain Trigger.
                        "But it won't do any good," complained the
                            banker despairingly. "Captain Trigger hasn't got the
                            backbone of a fishworm. He'd let you tell him
                            to go to hell and never think of jacking you up for it. No wonder
                            we're in the fix we're in now. If he'd had
                            the sense of a jelly-fish he'd have Here! Sit still!
                            You'll upset the boat, you fool! What What are you going to do
                            with that oar?"
                        "I'm going to crack you over the bean with it if you
                            don't take back what you said about Captain Trigger,"
                            said the steward, very earnestly. "Take it back, do you hear
                            me?"
                        "My God, would you murder me for a little thing like
                            that?"
                        Mr. Nicklestick aroused himself from the torpor of despair.
                        "Take it back, Mr. Landover, please do. If he misses you,
                            he'll get me sure, it's so dark, and so help me God I
                            got nothing but the deepest respect for Captain Trigger. He's a
                            vonderful man, steward. Don't make any mistake. You hear me say
                            he is a vonderful man? Vell,"
                        "Oh, shut up, Nicklestick," grated Landover, crouching
                            down behind the gentleman addressed.
                        The steward sat down. "I'd do it in a minute if it
                            wasn't for the women an' children in this
                            boat."
                        
                        "I intend to have every officer on that steamer arrested for
                            criminal negligence the instant I set foot in New York," boomed
                            the banker. "I call upon every one of you, my
                            fellow-passengers, to testify to the utter lack of precaution taken by
                            the men in charge of that ship. And what effort are they making to bring
                            help to us now? By gad, if I was in command of that vessel I'd
                            be shooting wireless calls to every Great Scott! What's
                            that?"
                        "That's a rocket, you blamed old fool!" roared
                            the steward.
                        "Good God!" gasped the exasperated banker.
                            "Are we having a celebration with fireworks?"
                        The dull, hapless occupants of the lifeboats watched with fascinated eyes
                            the first of the giant rockets that whizzed and roared its way up from
                            the deck of the ship, an endless arrow of fire piercing the night. A
                            loud report, the scattering of a hundred stars, and then denser
                            blackness than before.
                        Morning came. Up out of the east stole a sickly grey. It turned slowly
                            into pink, and then suddenly the sea once more was blue and smiling. In
                            the heart of the dancing cordon lay the weirdly camouflaged Doraine, inert, sinister, as still and cold as death. No smoke
                            issued from her stacks to cheer the wretched watchers; no foam, no spray
                            leaped from her mighty bow. She was a great, lifeless thing. Waves
                            lapped gently against her sides and fell away only to come back again in
                            playful scorn for the vast object that had rent and baffled them so
                            long. On high fluttered the Stars and Stripes, gay in the presence of
                            death, a sprightly harbinger of hope flaunting defiance in the face of
                            despair.
                        Men, stripped to the waist, grimy and shining with  the sweat of hours, moving about in knots of three and
                            four, always in knots of three or four as if afraid to disintegrate
                            leaned upon the rail and watched the approach of the crowded boats,
                            looked down into pallid, anguished faces with their eager, hungry eyes,
                            eyes that devoured the groups along the rail. Now and then a glad shout
                            of joy went up from one of the boats, and a figure in the huddled mass
                            was transformed into a responsive thing of life.
                        In each of the square, black openings in the hull of the ship stood men
                            with ropes and ladders. The great steel doors lay flat against the
                            sides, swung wide to admit this time a human cargo. From the interior of
                            the vessel came the brisk, incessant clatter of hammers against wood and
                            steel; from the decks broke the loud, commanding voices of men calling
                            out directions; from the gliding, slapping boats went up the hearty
                            shouts of understanding and obedience, the rattling of boat-hooks, the
                            grinding of oars in the locks, the murmur of voices revived.
                        "Vomen and children first!" was the shrill,
                            oft-repeated exhortation from one of the boats.
                        And up in the centre of another sprang a fine, imposing figure, from
                            whose lips rolled these thrilling words:
                        "By God, they're great! They're great, after
                            all! God bless Captain Trigger and every man-jack of them!"
                        "Get down!" roared his still unpacified critic, the
                            steward. "You'll fall overboard, you dam'
                            fool!"
                        The gaunt, coatless Mr. Mott commanded the port side of the vessel; Mr.
                            Codge, the purser, the starboard. Fighting men in the breeches and
                            leggings of the American Navy; blackened and bandaged stokers, sailors
                                 and landsmen comprised the motley
                            company that stood ready to drag the occupants of the boats up into the
                            dank, smoke-scented maw of the ship.
                        One by one, in regular, systematic order, the lifeboats came alongside.
                            There was no confusion, no bungling. They bumped gently against the
                            towering rows of plates, and, made fast by ropes with ample play, gave
                            up in time their precious cargoes. No one lifted up his voice in
                            rejoicing, for there were dead and injured back in the shadows; there
                            were grief-stricken, anxious men and women crouching out there in the
                            sunshine; there were limp, unconscious women and half-dead children; and
                            over all still hung the ominous cloud of catastrophe fat with prophecies
                            of perils yet to come.
                        They had gone out from a ship filled with a monstrous clangour and
                            confusion, they were returning to a tomblike hulk, a lonely mass in
                            which echoes would abound, a thing of sighs and silences, the corpse of
                            a mammoth that had throbbed yesterday, but never more.
                        Up in the curving triangle of the forward deck were two long,
                            canvas-covered rows. The dead! Forty-six twisted, silent forms lying
                            side by side, some calm in death, others charred and mutilated beyond
                            all possibility of identification. Every man in the engine-room at the
                            time of the explosion was now a mangled, unrecognizable thing.
                            Engineers, electricians, stokers, all of them wiped out in the flash of
                            an eye, burnt, boiled, shattered. Half a dozen women, as many children,
                            lay with the silent men.
                        The injured had been placed in staterooms on the promenade deck,
                            regardless of previous occupancy or subsequent claim. There lay the
                            score and a half of  seriously injured, and
                            there toiled the ship's surgeon and his volunteer helpers.
                            Sailor and merchant, worker and idler, scholar and dolt, steerage and
                            first cabin, wealth and poverty, shared alike in the disposition of
                            quarters and shared alike in attention. There was no discrimination. One
                            life was as good as another to the doctor and his men, the poor
                            man's moan as full of suffering as that of the rich man, the
                            wail of the steerage woman as piteous as that of her sister above.
                        Captain Trigger was one of the injured. He swore a great deal when the
                            doctor ordered him to bed. Ribs and a broken arm? Why the devil should
                            he be put to bed for something a schoolboy would laugh at? Mr. Shannon
                            and two of the younger officers were killed by the explosion that
                            wrecked the bridge and chart house. Chief Engineer Gray died in the
                            engine-room. Cruise was blown to pieces in the wireless house. His
                            assistant, the cripple with the charmed life, was dead.
                        A few seconds before the first explosion took place he blew out his
                            brains with a big navy revolver. The last seen of Cruise was when he
                            appeared in the door of his station, an expression of mingled rage and
                            alarm on his face. Pointing frantically at the figure of his assistant
                            as it shot down the steps and across the deck, he shouted:
                        "Get that man! Get him! For God's sake, get
                            him!"
                        It all happened in a few seconds of time. The shrill laugh of the fleeing
                            assistant, the report of the revolver, an instant of stupefaction, and
                            then the dull, grinding crash.
                        It will never be known what Cruise had heard or seen in the last moments
                            of his life. No one on board the Doraine, however,
                            doubted for an instant that he  had
                            discovered, too late, the truth about his misshapen assistant. They now
                            knew with almost absolute certainty the identity of the odd man in that
                            devilish trio, the man whose footsteps Percival had heard, the man who
                            stayed behind to guarantee the consummation of the hideous plot. Coward
                            in the end, he shirked the death he was pledged to accept. He knew what
                            was coming. Unlike his braver comrades, he took the simplest way.
                        The count began. Late in the afternoon it was completed. There were
                            forty-six known dead on board the Doraine, the
                            majority being members of the crew. Seventeen persons were missing,
                            chiefly from the steerage. Twenty-nine seriously injured were under the
                            doctor's care. Some of them would not recover. A hundred or
                            more persons suffered from shock, bruises, cuts and exposure, but only a
                            few of them required or demanded attention. In spite of their injuries,
                            they fell to with the spirit that makes for true heroism and devoted
                            themselves to the care of the less fortunate, or to the assistance of
                            the sorely-tried officers and men who strove to bring order out of
                            chaos.
                        Among the survivors were two American surgeons and a physician from Rio
                            Janeiro. They, with the nurses, all of whom had been saved, immediately
                            went to the relief of the ship's doctor, and in short order an
                            improvised hospital was established. There was a remarkable unanimity of
                            self-sacrifice among the passengers. High and low, they fell to in a
                            frenzy of comradeship, and worked side by side in whatsoever capacity
                            they were needed, whether fitted for it or not. No man, no woman, who
                            was able to lift a helping hand, failed in this hour of need. The
                            bereaved, as well as  those who were
                            untouched by a personal grief, gave all that was in them, tearfully,
                            grimly, ardently.
                        Menial labour fell to the lot of the lordly but uncomplaining Landover,
                            to Block and Nicklestick, Jones and Snipe, and even to the precious
                            Signor Joseppi, who, forgetting his Caruso-like throat, toiled and
                            sweated in the smoky saloon.
                        Morris Shine, the motion picture magnate, the while he laboured amidst
                            the wreckage of the after deck, lamented not the cheerless task but the
                            evil fate that prevented the making of the most spectacular film the
                            world had ever known.
                        Madame Careni-Amori, Madame Obosky and her dancers; bejewelled Jewesses
                            and half-clad emigrants; gentle women unused to toil and women who were
                            born to it; the old and the young all of them, without exception, rose
                            from the depths of despair and faced the rigours of the day with
                            unflinching courage, gave out of a limitless store of tenderness all
                            that their strength could spare.
                        And through a neglected, abandoned field of pearls and gold and precious
                            stones, limped unchallenged the tireless figure of
                            "Soapy" Shay, diamond thief, a bloody bandage about
                            his head, an exalted light in his pain-stricken eyes. His one-time
                            captor lay stark and cold in the gruesome line in the bow of the boat.
                            It was "Soapy" Shay who staggered out of the rack and
                            smoke with the burly, stricken detective in his arms, and it was
                            "Soapy" Shay who wept when the last breath of life
                            eased out through his tortured lips. For of all the company on board the
                                Doraine, there was but one whom
                            "Soapy" knew, but one who called him by name and
                            shared tobacco with him, and that  one was
                            William Spinney, the man who was taking him back to a place where mercy
                            would not be shown.
                        After the sun had set and the decks were dark and deserted except for the
                            men employed in the gruesome business, the dead were lowered into the
                            sea, swathed in canvas and weighted with things that were made to kill,
                            shells from the gunners' hoard. Swiftly, methodically, one
                            after the other, they slid down to the black, greedy waters, sank to the
                            grave that is never still yet always silent, to the vast, unexplored
                            wilderness that stretches around the world. The thin little missionary
                            from the barren plateaus of Patagonia and the plump priest from the
                            heart of Buenos Aires monotonously commended each and every one of them
                            to the mercy of God!
                        The sun came up again in the morning over a smiling, happy sea that
                            licked the sides of the Doraine with the tenderness of
                            a dog.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER V
                        THE plight of the hapless steamer could not be disguised. Even the most
                            ignorant passenger knew that the wrecked engines could not be repaired
                            or compounded. They knew that the Doraine was
                            completely paralysed. The power to move at will was for ever lost, the
                            force that had driven her resistlessly along the chosen path was still.
                            The powerful propellers were idle, the huge stern-post wrenched so badly
                            that the rudder was useless. She was adrift, helplessly adrift. Of what
                            avail the wheel and a patched-up rudder to the mass that lay inert,
                            motionless on the smiling sea?
                        Every one on board realized, with sinking heart, that the Doraine was to go on drifting, drifting no man knew whither,
                            until she crossed the path of a friendly stranger out there in the
                            mighty waste. No cry of distress, no call for help could go crackling
                            into the boundless reaches. That was the plight of the Doraine and her people on the mocking day that followed the
                            disaster, and unless fate intervened that would be her plight for days
                            without end.
                        Mr. Mott, temporarily in command, addressed the passengers in the main
                            saloon, where they had congregated at his request. He did not mince
                            matters. He stated the situation plainly. It was best that they should
                            realize, that they should understand, that they should know the truth,
                            in order that they might adapt themselves to the conditions he was now
                            compelled of  necessity to impose upon
                            them. They were, so to speak, occupying a derelict. Help might come
                            before nightfall, it might not come for days. He hoped for the best but
                            he intended to prepare for the worst.
                        Without apology he laid down a rigid set of rules, and from these rules,
                            he made it perfectly clear, there could be no deviation. The available
                            supply of food was limited. It was his purpose to conserve it with the
                            greatest possible care. Down in the holds, of course, was a vast store
                            of consigned foodstuffs, but he had no authority to draw upon it and
                            would not do so unless the ship's own stock was exhausted.
                            Passengers and crew, therefore, would be obliged to go on short rations.
                            Better to eat sparingly now, he said, than not to eat at all later on.
                            He concluded his remarks in this fashion:
                        "Remember that we are all in the same boat. We don't
                            know how long we'll be drifting like this and we don't
                            know where we're drifting to. It's an everlastingly
                            big ocean we're on. We ought to thank God we're not at
                            the bottom of it now. If we're lucky we'll be picked
                            up soon, if not, well, it's up to us, every one of us, to make
                            the best of it. We're alive, and that's certainly
                            something. We'll all find it easier if we keep ourselves busy.
                            That's why I'm asking you, one and all, to do a good
                            day's work regularly, one way or another, from now until relief
                            comes. We can't have any loafers or quitters on board this
                            ship. That means everybody, rich and poor. You may think I'm
                            putting a hardship on you, seeing as how you have paid for your passage
                            and all that, but what I'm ordering you to do ain't a
                            marker to what you'd be doing if you were out there in
                            lifeboats, eight hundred miles from shore, and well, we won't
                            go into that. We've  got to make
                            the best of it, my friends. We're up against it good and
                            plenty, that's the plain facts of the case. There's no
                            use in me saying it's all going to turn out right in a day or
                            so, because I don't know a da a blamed thing about it.
                            We're in God's hands. Maybe it will help to pray, but
                            I doubt it. All I've got to say is this: go down on your knees
                            as much as you like, but don't
                            kick!"
                        Signor Joseppi lifted his voice, but not in song. In very bad English he
                            wanted to know how long the Captain thought it would be before they were
                            rescued, and when he was informed that it might not be for weeks or even
                            months, he cried out in worse English that he was ruined. He would have
                            to violate his contract! No impressario would think of engaging him
                            again! His wonderful American tour! If he was not rescued within a week
                            Oh, my God, the consequences! He did not regret the paltry two thousand
                            a week for thirty weeks but to violate a contract!
                        Mr. Mott looked rather helpless. He appreciated the fact that Signor
                            Joseppi was a very great personage, but what was he saying? Was it could
                            it be mutiny?
                        "I'm sorry, Mr. Joseppi," he broke in,
                            "but if Madame Amori is willing to take her regular turn at
                            making up berths, I guess it won't hurt you to help every now
                            and then in the dining-room."
                        Signor Joseppi did not understand a word of it. He turned to the man at
                            his elbow for enlightenment.
                        "What did he say?" he whispered.
                        "He says you have a perfectly marvellous voice and that
                            he'd give two thousand any time to hear you sing,"
                            replied his neighbour in excellent Italian.
                        Whereupon the Signor favoured the severe-looking  Mr. Mott with a beaming smile and as deep a bow as he could
                            make in such close quarters.
                        "A most courteous officer," he said to his neighbour.
                            "It will be a joy to serve him, my friend. We should, one and
                            all, do what he asks of us, no matter how mean the task. I, Joseppi, you
                            have heard of Joseppi, my friend? I shall be the example for all of you.
                            Should he say, 'Wash the dishes, Joseppi,' then will I
                            wash the dishes, I, Joseppi, who never washed a dish in his life. Should
                            he say, 'Cook the meals, Joseppi,' then will Joseppi,
                            who never cooked a thing in his life, then will Joseppi cook the meals.
                            Should he say, 'Joseppi, scrub the floor,' then will I
                            scrub the floor. Should he say, 'Signor, steer the
                            ship,' then will I do my best to steer the ship, I who have
                            never steered a ship. So! Let me be your example, my friend."
                        "That's fine," said his neighbour, as they
                            moved off together. "But supposing he asks you to sing
                            occasionally to amuse the rest of us, what then?"
                        "Amuse?" cried the Signor. "Amuse?"
                        "Well, then, entertain."
                        The great Joseppi pursed his lips. His brows grew dark with trouble.
                        "Ah, but that would be violating my contract," he said.
                            "My contract specifically states that under no circumstances
                            may I " Then suddenly, as if renouncing a sacred principle, his
                            brow cleared, and he cried out: "Damn the contract!
                            Joseppi's voice is his own. Joseppi will do as he pleases with
                            it. Let him but make the request, my friend, and Joseppi will sing till
                            he drops from exhaustion." Lowering his voice to a confidential
                            undertone, he went on: "And that, my friend, is more than you
                            will find Careni-Amori  willing to do.
                            There is one cold-blooded, grasping woman for you. Money! She thinks of
                            nothing but money. And flattery! Ah, how she thrives on flattery. That
                            woman, my friend, beautiful as she is, has no more heart than a
                            "
                        "Excuse me, please," broke in his listener, in English.
                            "I've got to beat it."
                        He had caught sight of a slim young figure at the head of the stairs, a
                            girl in a rumpled blue serge tailor-suit and a tan-coloured sport hat
                            pulled well down over her dark hair. He made his way through the crowd
                            and caught her up as she passed out on the deck.
                        "I've been terribly worried about you," he
                            began without other greeting, planting himself in front of her.
                            "I thought maybe you might have but, thank the good Lord, you
                            weren't."
                        She looked momentarily bewildered. Then she recognized him and held out
                            her hand. Her face was serious, unsmiling, her voice low and tired.
                        "Isn't it dreadful, Mr. Percival? What a terrible
                            experience it has been. Oh and I am glad you came through safely, too.
                            But " as her eyes narrowed anxiously,"you were hurt.
                            Your hands?"
                        "I can't very well shake hands with you, Miss
                            Clinton," said he. "Scorched a little, that's
                            all. You'd think it was serious, the way they're
                            bandaged. One of the sailors fixed them up for me last night. I
                            can't tell you how glad I am that you are all right. And your
                            aunt? Is she " He paused.
                        "Auntie is all right, Mr. Percival. She's in bed. Shock
                            and exposure. We were out there all night. In one of the boats.
                            Katherine," her her voice shook a little,"Katherine is
                            gone. She leaped overboard.  I I saw her
                            go. I shall never forget it, never. Aunt Julia's maid. For, oh,
                            so many years, Mr. Percival." She spoke in sharp, broken
                            sentences, as if breathless. "You must have been terribly
                            burned. Your hair, your eyes, how bloodshot they are."
                        "Smoke," he said succinctly. "Singed on this
                            side only. Really nothing serious. I got off very lightly."
                        "Some of the men were frightfully burned," she said
                            with a shudder. "I am trying to be a nurse. There are two men
                            in my in my "
                        "I know," he broke in hastily. "Don't
                            talk about it, Miss Clinton. It's corking of you to take hold
                            like this. Corking!"
                        "Tell me about yourself. Where were you when it
                            happened?"
                        "I hate to admit it, but I was having a bite to eat down in the
                            galley. You see, they'd somehow forgotten to give me anything
                            to eat, in the excitement, of course, and I had been so busy myself it
                            didn't occur to me to be hungry till rather late in the day. I
                            managed to get on deck but not until after the bombs had all gone off.
                            My friend, Mr. Gray, the Chief Engineer, you know, was down in the
                            engine-room. That's how I got my hands burned. Not badly, I
                            assure you, but well, they may be a little scarred. You may not know it,
                            but Mr. Gray and I came from the same place. Baltimore. He belonged to a
                            fine old family there and he'd been very kind to me. Poor
                            fellow! Penned in. They never had a chance down there. He was well, he
                            died a few minutes after he was dragged out here on the deck. His
                            clothes were on fire. But let's not talk about it. Tell me, is
                            there anything I can do to make you more comfortable?  Or your aunt? I'm what you might
                            call officer of the deck at present. Mr. Mott "
                        "You ought to be in bed, Mr. Percival," she interrupted
                            sharply. "Your face is burned, too, you must be suffering
                            terribly. Wait! Now don't tell me you are not. I know better.
                            I've seen those other men who were burned. I "
                        "It's nothing, I tell you," he interrupted,
                            almost roughly. "There are dozens of men worse off than I am,
                            and are they in bed? Not much. This is no time to lie down, Miss
                            Clinton, if you've got a leg to stand on. See that little chap
                            over there with his head and hands covered with bandages, and barely
                            able to drag his feet after him? He's an American jockey. I
                            don't know his name. He was blown twenty or thirty feet across
                            the after-deck. Brought up at the bottom of a companion-way.
                            He's nothing but cuts and bruises from head to foot. But
                            he's around on his wobbly little pins today, just the same,
                            trying to edge in on some sort of a Job. Couldn't keep him in
                            bed."
                        Miss Clinton's eyes were full of wonder and incredulity.
                            "I cannot understand it," she said. "My
                            cousin was with the American Ambulance in France. He says that the
                            slightest flesh wound sends a soldier to the hospital."
                        "They haven't any choice in the matter. Besides, it
                            isn't the same. Poor devils, they may have been at it in the
                            trenches for weeks and months. A wound of any sort means a pleasant
                            vacation. Still," he went on after a moment, a faint derisive
                            smile on his lips, "we had a big husky up in Camp who insisted
                            on going to bed every time he had the nosebleed."
                        She was looking into his blood-shot eyes, infinite pity and concern in
                            her own.
                        
                        "Will you let me dress your hands, Mr. Percival, whenever it is
                            necessary? I am getting used to it now."
                        "It's good of you, Miss Clinton," he replied
                            gratefully. "But I think you'd better stick to the
                            fellows who really need attention. Don't add an extra ounce to
                            your burden. You'll need all of your strength and courage to
                            face the demands of the next few days. Those chaps have just begun to
                            suffer. They're going to have a tight squeeze getting through,
                            if they get through at all. You have not answered my question. Is there
                            anything I can do for you or your aunt?"
                        "No, not a thing," she said. "We are quite all
                            right. As Mr. Mott said, we are all in the same boat, Mr. Percival.
                            We've got to make up our minds to that. We can't have
                            the comforts and the luxuries we had day before yesterday. Whatever is
                            left of them, we must share with others."
                        "Even with stowaways," he ventured, but not fatuously.
                        "No one is likely to forget how our only stowaway came by his
                            wounds," she said simply. "Despite your modesty, I am
                            quite certain who it was that carried the Chief Engineer on deck, Mr.
                            Percival. While his clothes were burning, too."
                        Percival turned his face away and many seconds passed before he spoke.
                        "By the way," he said at last, a trifle unsteadily,
                            "at regular intervals the gun up there in the bow is to be
                            fired. You must not be alarmed when it goes off. There is a chance that
                            some ship may hear the report. The British have a few warships down
                            here, you know. They would investigate if they got word of big guns
                            being fired anywhere in these parts. Mr. 
                            Mott will give warning when the gun is to be fired, so that every one
                            will understand. I I just thought I'd tell you."
                        "Thank you. Good-bye for the present. I must get back to my
                            wounded."
                        "Keep your spirits up," he said.
                            "That's the principal job now, Miss Clinton. Good-bye,
                            and thank you."
                        He watched her as she moved off down the deck. He could not help noticing
                            that her figure drooped perceptibly. In his mind's eye he saw
                            her as she was but two days before, straight, graceful, full of the joy
                            of living, with a stride that was free and swinging. He recalled her
                            lovely, inquiring grey eyes as she stared at him on that ignominious
                            afternoon, the parted red lips and the smile that came to them, the
                            smartly dressed hair, the jaunty hat, the trim sport suit of
                            tan-coloured jersey he recalled the alluring picture she made that day,
                            and sadly shook his head.
                        "Poor girl," he said to himself, and walked slowly in
                            the opposite direction, favouring his left leg.
                        He went down to see the Captain. The old seadog was stretched out in his
                            berth, a look of pain and utter despair in his eyes. One of the Russian
                            dancers, a rather pretty girl of a distinctly Slavic type, was cleaning
                            up the room. The ship's doctor had just left.
                        "Feeling a bit more comfortable, sir?" inquired the
                            young man.
                        "I wish you'd get this girl out of here,"
                            growled Captain Trigger with difficulty. "I want to
                            swear."
                        "I think it would be all right to go ahead with it,
                            sir," said Percival. "She doesn't understand
                            a word of English."
                        The Captain shook his head. "I'll let it
                            wait."  Then, looking at his
                            visitor's bandaged hands: "How are your hands, my
                            lad?"
                        "Fairly easy. The doctor says the burns are not deep. Mr. Mott
                            asked me to step in and see you, sir, and give you my opinion as to the
                            bombs. You see, I've had a great deal of experience with high
                            explosives. There isn't the slightest doubt in my mind that you
                            found and got rid of the worst of them. The officer in charge of the
                            gun-crew agrees with me. They planted the big ones, the ones that were
                            to destroy the ship, down in the hold, where there was less chance of
                            discovery. The others, I am convinced, were much smaller. It would have
                            been impossible to hide a bomb of any noticeable size in any of the
                            places where the explosions occurred. They went about it very cunningly,
                            very systematically. Of course, no one saw the bombs that exploded, but
                            judging by the actual results, they could not have been very
                            powerful."
                        "And I also," said the Captain, "thank God we
                            dug out the big ones." He scowled forlornly. "Dr.
                            Cullen says I am in for a week of this, Percival. You don't
                            think so, do you?"
                        Percival smiled. "I am more or less of an expert on explosives,
                            sir," he replied.
                        "Umph," grunted Captain Trigger. "I see. Just
                            the same, I think I'll be up and about by tomorrow. If I were
                            your age, young man, you can bet I wouldn't be lying here in
                            this bed."
                        "On the other hand, if I were your age, Captain
                            Trigger," said Percival, "I'd probably have
                            sense enough to do exactly what the doctor ordered."
                        Captain Trigger's mouth fell open.
                        "Well, of all the damned " he began, and then swallowed
                            hard.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER VI
                        FOR three days and nights the Doraine drifted lazily in
                            a calm and rippling sea, always to the southward. The days were bright
                            and warm, the nights black and chill. It was the spring of the year in
                            that zone. Without adequate navigation instruments, Mr. Mott was forced
                            to rely to a great extent on speculation. He was able to make certain
                            calculations with reasonable accuracy, but they were of little real
                            significance. It was, of course, possible to determine the general
                            direction in which they were drifting, and the speed. They were slowly
                            but surely edging into the strong west wind drift. The Falkland Islands
                            would soon be off to the right, with South Georgia and the Sandwich
                            group farther to the south and east, the southernmost tip of Africa to
                            the left.
                        Not a sail had been sighted, not a sign of smoke appeared on the spotless
                            horizon. At regular intervals the gun on the forward deck boomed thrice
                            in quick succession, startling the lifeless hulk into a sort of
                            spasmodic vitality. Then she would sink back once more into the old,
                            irksome lethargy, incapable of resisting the gentlest wave, submissive
                            to the whim of the slightest breeze. The ship's carpenter and
                            his men were making slow headway in the well-nigh impossible task of
                            repairing the rudder. Attempts were being made to rig up makeshift sails
                            to replace those licked from the supplemental spars by flames that had
                            earned considerable progress along the roof of the upper deck  building before they were subdued.
                            Blackened, charred masts and yards, stripped of rigging, reared
                            themselves like pines at the edge of a fire-swept forest. Sailmakers and
                            riggers laboured stubbornly, but the work was slow and the means of
                            restoration limited.
                        The occupants of the derelict had settled down to a dull, almost dogged
                            state of resignation. There were several deaths and burials, incidents
                            that made but little impression on the waiting, watchful survivors. Each
                            succeeding day brought forth additional watchers to swell the anxious
                            throng, resolute and sometimes ungovernable men who, defying their
                            wounds and the nurses, refused to stay where they could not have a hand
                            in all that was going on.
                        Back of all this pitiful courage, however, lurked the unholy fear that
                            they might be left to their fate in case the ship had to be hurriedly
                            abandoned.
                        Mr. Mott watched the weather. Every seaman on board the Doraine scanned the cloudless sky with searching, anxious
                            eyes. They sniffed the steady wind that blew them farther south. Always
                            they scanned the sky and sniffed the wind.
                        "It's got to come sometime," repeated Captain
                            Trigger, after each report from Mr. Mott.
                        "I've known weather like this to last for
                            weeks," said the First Officer.
                        "In the South Pacific, yes," said the Captain grimly.
                            "But we're in the South Atlantic, Mott."
                        On the sixth day the barometer began to fall. The breeze stiffened. The
                            sea became choppy, and whitecaps danced fitfully over the greenish
                            stretches, growing wilder and wilder under the whip of a flouting wind.
                            The two patchwork sails on the lumbering Doraine
                            flapped noisily for awhile, as if shaking off their torpor,  then suddenly grew taut and fat with
                            prosperity. The twisted, half-jammed rudder, far from worthy despite the
                            efforts of its repairers, whiningly obeyed the man at the wheel, and
                            once more the ship felt the caress of the deep on her cleaving bows.
                        The horizon to the north and west seemed to draw nearer, the contrast
                            between the deepening blue of the water and the clear azure of the
                            contracting dome more sharply defined. The sky that had been cloudless
                            for days still remained barren, but the sailor knew what lay beyond the
                            clear-cut rim of the world. The man of the sea could look far beyond the
                            horizon. He could see the ugly clouds that were even now speeding down
                            from the north, invisible as yet but soon to creep into view; he could
                            see the mighty billows on the other side of that distant line; he could
                            hear the roar and shriek of the tempest that was still hundreds of miles
                            away. It was the matter of but a few hours before the wind and the
                            billows would rush up to smite the Doraine with all
                            their might under the cover of a black and storm-rent sky. And what was
                            to become of the vessel, floundering in the path of the hurricane?
                        Late afternoon brought the forerunner of the gale, a whistling, howling
                            squall that frantically strove, it would seem, to outrace the baleful
                            clouds. Then the Doraine was in the thick of the
                            furious revel of sea and sky, plunging, leaping, rolling like a
                            monstrous cork. . . .
                        How she managed to weather the storm, God knows, and He alone. At the
                            mercy of wave and wind, she was tossed and hammered and racked for two
                            frightful days and nights, and yet she remained afloat, battered,
                            smashed, raked from stem to stern, stripped of everything the tempest
                            could wrench from her in its fury.  And yet
                            on the third day, when the storm abated, the sturdy ship was still
                            riding the waves, flayed but unconquered, and the baffled sea was
                            licking the sides of her once more with servile though deceitful
                            tenderness.
                        But there was water in the hold. The ship was leaking badly.
                        Up from the stifling interior straggled the unhappy inmates. They looked
                            again upon the unbelievable: a smiling, dancing sea of blue under a
                            canopy clean and spotless. It was unbelievable. Even
                            the stout-hearted Captain and the faithful mate, blear-eyed and haggard
                            from loss of sleep, were filled with wonder.
                        "I can't understand it," muttered Mr. Mott a
                            dozen times that day, shaking his head in a bewildered sort of way.
                            "I can't understand how she did it. By right, she
                            ought to be at the bottom of the ocean, and here she is on top of it,
                            same as ever."
                        "Do you believe in God, Mr. Mott?" asked the Captain
                            solemnly.
                        "I do," said Mr. Mott emphatically. After a moment he
                            added: "I've been a long time coming to it, Captain
                            Trigger, but I do. Nothing short of an Almighty Being could have steered
                            this ship for the past two days."
                        The Captain nodded his head slowly, his gaze fixed on something above and
                            far beyond the horizon.
                        "I suppose it's too much to ask of Him,
                            though," said he, audibly completing a thought.
                        Mr. Mott evidently had been thinking of the same thing, for he said:
                        "I'm sorry to say it's gained about two feet
                            on the pumps since last night."
                        Captain Trigger's face was very grave. "That means a
                            couple of days more at the outside." His eyes  rested speculatively on the three
                            lifeboats still hanging above the starboard rail. There was another
                            being repaired on the port side. "More than six hundred of us
                            on board, Andrew." His head dropped suddenly, his chin
                            twitched. Mr. Mott looked away.
                        "I don't believe it will come to that," said
                            he, an odd note of confidence in his voice.
                            "'Tain't likely, old friend, that God would
                            see us safely through all we've had to tackle and then desert
                            us in the end. Something's bound to turn up. I've a
                            feeling, a queer feeling, that we're going to pull out of this
                            all right. I know it looks mighty hopeless, but "
                        "Just the same, Mr. Mott," broke in the Captain,
                            lifting his head and setting his jaw, "you'd better
                            set all available hands to work on the rafts immediately. It's
                            true God has helped us through a lot, but it strikes me we'd
                            better be on the safe side and help God a little at this stage of the
                            game. He is wonderful, Andrew, but He isn't wonderful enough to
                            keep man afloat very long unless man himself builds the raft. So
                            don't lose a minute."
                        Anxious, inquiring eyes followed the Captain and his First Officer
                            wherever they went. On all sides were silent, beaten people who asked no
                            questions, for they were afraid of the answers. Sick, dazed, haggard,
                            they stared hopelessly, drearily out over the water; for all that their
                            faces revealed the end was near at hand and they cared but little. They
                            had been through one hell; death could bring nothing worse.
                        Here and there a stout-hearted optimist appeared among them, but his very
                            cheerfulness seemed to offend. They did not want to hear his silly,
                            stupid predictions that something was "sure to turn
                            up." They knew that water was coming into the hold; they knew
                            that  there were but four lifeboats and
                            seven hundred men and women; they knew that the Doraine was going down in a very few hours; they knew that the
                            Captain had given up all hope of rescue. Nothing could "turn
                            up" now but death.
                        Madame Obosky had taken a great fancy to Algernon Adonis Percival, and
                            for a most peculiar reason. He had, it appears, abused her roundly on
                            the first night of the storm for venturing on deck against orders,
                            compelling him to risk what he considered a very precious life in a
                            successful effort to drag her back to safety. As a matter of fact, he
                            did not drag her back to safety. That feat was accomplished by two
                            sailors who managed to reach both of them before another devastating
                            wave came up to tear his grip loose from the broken rail to which he
                            clung with one bandaged hand while he kept her from sliding into the sea
                            with the other.
                        He was very angry. In the first place, his hands hurt him dreadfully, and
                            in the second place she had forced him to disobey orders by going out to
                            save her. He did not mutter his complaints. He told her in plain and
                            violent English what he thought of her, and if she went out there again
                            he'd be damned happy to let her drown.
                        Now, it had been some time since any man had had the hardihood or
                            temerity to upbraid Madame Obosky. No male had cursed her since she left
                            Petrograd, and that was four years ago. She had been cursed often enough
                            by her own sex, professionally, of course, but the men she had
                            encountered since leaving Russia were either too chivalrous or too
                            cowardly to abuse her, and she missed it terribly.
                        She had gone through a very hard school in order  to become one of the principal dancers in her land.
                            Teachers had cursed her, teachers had beaten her, and they always were
                            men.
                        When she was eighteen she married a lion-tamer. Who would have thought
                            that a man who trained lions could be gentle and mild, and as tame as
                            the beasts he had beaten for years? She was barely nineteen when he
                            died, quite suddenly. There was a dark rumour that she had poisoned him.
                            True or false, the rumour persisted, and she soon became one of the most
                            popular dancers in the Empire. For three years she had a manager who
                            treated her so vilely, so contemptuously that she tried to kill his
                            wife, whereupon the unnatural husband refused to have anything more to
                            do with her.
                        She was dancing in Germany when the War broke out, but succeeded in
                            getting over into Holland within a week or two, thereby escaping what
                            she was pleased to describe as "something zat no woman could
                            endure, no matter how long she have live' in Russia."
                            Paris and London had treated her kindly, courteously, but that was to be
                            expected, she repined, because all of the real men were off at the front
                            fighting. Instead of being scowled at and ordered about by managers and
                            orchestra leaders, or brow-beaten by hotel-clerks and head-waiters, she
                            met with nothing but the most servile politeness, due, she was prone to
                            argue, to the unquestioned decadence of the French and English races.
                            They were a bloodless lot, those Frenchmen and Englishmen.
                        It was the same in Rio Janeiro, Buenos Aires and Santiago, and it would
                            be even worse in New York, Chicago and San Francisco. The Americans, she
                            had heard, were the worst of them all. They didn't know  the first thing about the majesty of sex.
                            The Indian, she understood, was an exception. From all accounts, he knew
                            how to treat his woman.
                        She was homesick. Her heart leaped with joy when she discovered in
                            Percival what she believed to be a domineering, masterful man. He had
                            been neither servile, nor polite, nor afraid. He had treated her, at
                            least for an illuminating, transcendent ten minutes, as if she were the
                            dirt under his feet, and he was an American at that. True, he had
                            apologized a little later on, and had blushed quite becomingly in doing
                            so, but nothing, nothing in the world, would ever make her believe that
                            he was not the sort of man who could be depended upon to put a woman in
                            her place and keep her there. He might apologize until he was black in
                            the face and still be unable to take back the words he had uttered.
                            Notwithstanding that he, in his apology, professed to have mistaken her
                            in the darkness for one of the Portuguese immigrant women who
                            didn't understand a word of English, she forgave him quite
                            humbly, and that was going pretty far for Olga Obosky, whose identity
                            ought not to have been a matter of doubt, even on the darkest of nights.
                        She was a lithe, perfectly formed young woman, beautiful in an unusual
                            way. Her body was as sinuous as that of a woodland nymph. Indeed, in one
                            of her most spectacular dances, she appeared as a nymph, bare-footed,
                            bare-legged, and, as Mrs. Spofford caustically remarked, bare-faced. She
                            possessed the marvellously clear, colourless complexion found only among
                            the purely Slavic women. Her lips were red and sensuous, her eyes darkly
                            mysterious and brooding, her hair as black as the raven's wing.
                        When she smiled her face became strikingly alive,  radiant, transforming her into a jolly, good-natured,
                            wholesome girl in whom not the faintest trace of the carnal was left.
                            Every move, every thought, every impulse was feminine; her imagination
                            was feminine; she cast the spell of her femininity over all with whom
                            she came in contact. Primitively sensuous, she was also primitively
                            wary, and so she was ineffably feminine.
                        Prior to the time of her dramatic encounter with the American, she had
                            favoured him with no more than a glance or two of curiosity. He was a
                            stowaway; for a brief while he was suspected of being involved in the
                            plot to blow up the ship. That was enough for her. Twice she had seen
                            Miss Clinton talking with him, and once, just before the storm set in,
                            she had paused to watch the young American girl renew the bandages on
                            his hands after dressing the burns. Half an hour after he had apologized
                            for speaking so roughly to her, she decided that it was her duty to hunt
                            him up and minister to him. The ship was rolling terribly, the din of
                            the elements was deafening, but Olga Obosky was not a faint-hearted
                            person. She went forth boldly, confidently. Terrified, clinging
                            observers marvelled at her sure-footedness, at the graceful way in which
                            her sinuous body bent itself to the perilous heavings of the vessel.
                        She found him in the reading-room, seated in a corner. Miss Clinton was
                            readjusting the bandage on one of his hands. Half a dozen people were in
                            the room, manfully defying the turmoil that had sent nearly every one
                            else to bed in terror and distress. Without hesitation the dancer joined
                            the couple in the corner. Her smile was engaging; a faint line between
                            her eye-brows signified the concern she felt for him.
                        
                        Miss Clinton looked up from her work. Her smile was politely accusative,
                            and brief.
                        "It is all my fault," began Madame Obosky, standing
                            before them, her feet wide apart, her knees bent slightly to meet the
                            varying slants and lurches of the vessel. She spoke the English language
                            confidently and well. Her accent, which was scarcely noticeable,
                            betrayed the fact that she had mastered French long before attempting
                            English. There was a piquant boldness in the occasional misplacing of
                            words and in the haphazard construction of sentences. She was unafraid.
                        "I have subject him to much pain and discomfort," she
                            went on, addressing the girl. "Those poor hand! It is I who
                            should kiss them, Mademoiselle, not you."
                        "Kiss them?" gasped Miss Clinton.
                        "Of no doubt," said Madame Obosky readily. "Do
                            they not pain because of me? Should I not kiss the hand who snatch me
                            from the horrible death? From the Kingdom Come, as the doctor he say to
                            me such a little time ago. And you, Mademoiselle, who have not been save
                            by him from the Kingdom Come, you attend his hands and make him to be
                            greatly comfortable."
                        "I am merely dressing the burns, Madame Obosky," said
                            the other, coldly. "I have done as much for the other poor
                            fellows who "
                        "I know, I know," broke in the Russian, smiling.
                            "You must not be offend with me if I speak your language so
                            badly."
                        "It strikes me you speak it most acceptably,"
                            interposed Percival.
                        "What is your name?" she asked abruptly. "I
                                 have heard you called the stowaway. No
                            one has speak your name to me."
                        "My name is Percival," said he.
                        "It is a pretty name," said she, dubiously.
                            "But surely you do not approve of me to call you Percival so
                            quick. What is the other name, the name I am to "
                        "That's the trouble with a name like mine. It sounds so
                            beastly informal when you leave off the Mister, and it sounds as if
                            you'd been a servant in the family for at least one generation
                            if you stick it on. If you could only call me Monsieur Percival, or Seor
                            Percival, or even Herr Percival, it wouldn't seem so bad, but
                            Mister Percival, well, it's pretty soft, isn't it,
                            Miss Clinton?"
                        "Please hold your hand still, Mr. Percival," ordered
                            the girl. She smiled up at the puzzled dancer. "His name is Mr.
                            Percival, Madame Obosky. That's the poor creature's
                            last name."
                        "Oh, I see. Then even you, Mademoiselle, may not call him
                            Percival?"
                        "No, I do not call him Percival."
                        "You see, she's known me such a very short
                            time," explained the subject of these remarks.
                        For a few moments Madame Obosky watched the bandaging process in silence.
                            When she spoke again it was to say:
                        "You are so skilful, so gentle, Mademoiselle. I am taking a
                            lesson in gentleness from you."
                        "It is quite simple, Madame. I am very awkward. I have had no
                            experience. But if we ever live to see home again, I shall prepare
                            myself at once for work in France. We are needed over there. We will be
                                 needed more than ever, now that
                            America has gone in. Our own soldiers are over there, God bless
                            them."
                        Madame Obosky gave her a pitying look.
                        "You may thank your God that you do not live in a land of
                            soldiers, Mademoiselle. If you did, you would not be so eager to nurse
                            them back to life. Do I shock you? Voil! When you
                            train a boy to be a soldier, as the boys are trained in my country and
                            in Germany, you make an animal of him, and not a very nice animal at
                            that. You nurse him back to life and strength and in return for your
                            kindness he outrages you, and goes his way rejoicing. No, I do not like
                            the soldiers."
                        Miss Clinton did not look up. Percival stared at the Russian for a moment
                            and then observed:
                        "I don't think you can say that of the French or the
                            English, Madame."
                        She shrugged her shoulders. "Quite true. But the French and the
                            English, Mr. Percival, are decadent races," she said coolly, as
                            if there were nothing more to be said on the subject. "Please,
                            Mademoiselle," she went on, briskly, "will you not let
                            me see how you have prepared his hands? I mean, how have you, is it
                            right to say fixed them?"
                        "Dressed them, you mean, Madame Obosky."
                        "I see. First you undress them, then you dress them, is it not
                            so?"
                        Ruth Clinton laughed. The woman was quaint.
                        "I am about to begin on the left hand. You may watch me, if you
                            care to do so."
                        "Will it not make you embarrass?"
                        "Why should I be embarrassed?" inquired Ruth, flushing.
                        
                        "I have said the wrong word," lamented the other.
                            "Nervous, zat, that is the word."
                        "They're not very lovely things to look at,"
                            said Percival. "All red and blistery and greasy. Miss Clinton
                            is a regular heroine to tackle 'em."
                        "I have witnessed some very terrible sights, Mr.
                            Percival," said the Russian, her eyes narrowing. "Have
                            you ever seen a little Jewish girl, but no, Mademoiselle, no! I have
                            catch the look in your eyes. I shall not tell you what I have seen. Go
                            on! I shall be silent and take my first lesson."
                        Closely, intently she watched the process. When it was all over and the
                            bottle containing ointment had been restored to the patient's
                            pocket, she spread out her hands and exclaimed:
                        "It is not difficult. May I inquire where the gauze bandages are
                            to be obtained, Miss Clinton? And do you always use the same safety
                            pins?"
                        She arose early the next morning. Rousing her maid, she ordered her to
                            apply to the ship's surgeon for bandages and to fetch them to
                            her at once.
                        "I know, yes, I know. You are dying, but do as I tell you. This
                            instant! Why should you, a great hulking beast of a woman, be dying
                            every minute of the day while I, not half your size, am tingling all
                            over with life? Go!"
                        "But, Madame," groaned the wretched woman, rolling her
                            eyes, "I shall be dashed to pieces against the walls. I cannot
                            stand. My legs will not hold me up. They "
                        "Enough! That is no excuse. My legs manage to hold me
                            up."
                        "But, Madame, it is my legs I am speaking of. My legs are not
                            like yours."
                        
                        "Any fool can see that," retorted her mistress, and the
                            ungainly maid staggered out on her mission.
                        Later on, supplied with a roll of gauze, Madame Obosky set out in quest
                            of her preserver. Even the veterans among the seamen gazed upon her in
                            wondering admiration as she made her way about the ship. She was a
                            revelation to them. The increasing fury of the storm had driven all save
                            the hardiest sailors and a few of the non-praying male passengers to
                            their rooms. Now and then one or two of the courageous, devoted nurses
                            appeared in the corridors, reeling from patient to patient, but except
                            for them the ship seemed entirely bereft of women. Small wonder then
                            that the lithe, undaunted Russian created a sensation among the sailors
                            who themselves were cold with dread.
                        She discovered him at last, coming up the steps from the devastated
                            engine room. He was with Mr. Mott and several other half-dressed men.
                            Their faces were grave, more serious than ever. They had been down to
                            investigate the leak. Percival was stripped to the waist. The glare of
                            the lanterns fell upon his broad shoulders and powerful arms, bronzed
                            and burnished by the sun of the high hills.
                        "Come," she said, laying her hand on one of his brawny
                            arms, "I have with me the bandages." She sent a swift
                            glance over him, and smiled. "But I see you have not the
                            bottle. Is it in your cabin, Mr. Percivail?"
                        He flushed darkly under his coat of tan. His companions stared for a
                            moment, and then went on.
                        "I am busy," he said. 'I haven't the
                            time now, Madame Obosky. Thank you, just the same." Then a
                            sense of loyalty to the girl who had been kind to him impelled him to
                            add: "Besides, Miss Clinton has been  taking care of my hands. She has got used to dressing them,
                            so I "
                        "But it is my duty now," she protested. "She
                            owes so little to you and I so much. Come, let us procure the lotion.
                            Where is your cabin?"
                        He held back. "You can't go to my cabin."
                        "And why not?" she exclaimed, in surprise.
                            "Does not Miss Clinton go to your cabin?"
                        "No, she does not!"
                        "But she goes to the cabins of other men who are wounded. I have
                            see her with my own eyes."
                        "That's different. They can't come to
                            her."
                        She looked searchingly into his eyes.
                        "I see," she said after a moment. "You are in
                            love with her."
                        "Ridiculous," he exclaimed, scowling.
                        "And so you prefer to have her fix your hands. I see, my friend.
                                Voil! If so is the case, I am outcast."
                        "But, confound it, it isn't the case," he
                            cried. "It's simply this: I wouldn't for the
                            world have her feel that I am not grateful, and that's exactly
                            what it would look like if I allowed you or any one else to butt in,
                            Madame Obosky."
                        "Butt in?" she said, a puzzled look in her dark eyes.
                            "What is that?"
                        "It's English for interfere," said he,
                            shortly.
                        She removed her hand from his arm. He was conscious of the abrupt
                            termination of an exquisite thrill.
                        "Very well," she said, lifting her chin. "I
                            shall not interfere."
                        "Forgive me, please," he said. "It's
                            mighty good of you. Please don't think me ungracious. You
                            understand, however, don't you?"
                        
                        "No, I do not," she replied, shaking her head slowly.
                            Suddenly her eyes widened. "Is it because I dance in my bare
                            feet, in my bare legs, that you think so vilely of me?"
                        He stared. "Good Lord! I don't think vilely of you,
                            Madame Obosky. I wasn't even aware that you danced in your bare
                            feet and legs."
                        "You have never seen Obosky dance?" she cried in
                            astonishment.
                        "Never."
                        She frowned. "Then, my friend, I was wrong in what I say just
                            now. Most men who have seen me dance think I am a bad woman, and so they
                            either covet me or despise me. If you have not had ze pleasure of seeing
                            me, Mr. Percivail, you do not either covet me or despise me. That is
                            fine. It is good to know that you do not despise me." Observing
                            the expression in his eyes, she went on calmly. "Oh, yes, I
                            shall be very much please to have you covet me. Zat that is all right.
                            But if you despise me, no, no, zat would be terrible."
                        For a moment he was dashed. He did not know how to take her remark. She
                            was a new, a strange type to him. After a sharp, quick look into her
                            eyes, however, he came to the conclusion that she was absolutely
                            sincere. So far as she was concerned, it was as if she had said nothing
                            more outrageous than: "I shall be please to consider you one of
                            my admirers."
                        "My dear Madame," he said, smiling, "permit me
                            to express the hope that both of us may go on to the end of our days
                            without having our peace of mind disturbed."
                        She looked puzzled for a moment, and then favoured him with her broad,
                            good-natured smile.
                        
                        "Spoken like a Frenchman," she cried, and added,
                            "and with equal sincerity, I fear. Go your way, Monsieur
                            Percivail. I shall keep my gauze. Some day when we are very old people
                            and very old friends I may then be permitted to bandage your hands. At
                            present, however, the risk is too great, eh? I am so inexperience. I
                            might by accident tie your hands in my clumsiness, and zat that would
                            make so much trouble for Miss Clinton to untie zem, yes?"
                        Now there was mockery in her eyes. His face hardened.
                        "I must be on my way," he said curtly. "We
                            have been looking things over down below. The Captain is waiting for our
                            report."
                        He bowed and started off. She swung along at his side.
                        "What have you discover, Mr. Percivail?" she inquired
                            anxiously.
                        "That, Madame Obosky, is something that will have to come from
                            Captain Trigger."
                        "I see. That means it is bad. I see."
                        The lurching of the ship threw her body against his. She righted herself
                            promptly, but did not reveal the slightest confusion nor utter a word of
                            apology.
                        "By Jove, you're a cool one!" he exclaimed.
                            "I don't believe you know the meaning of fear.
                            Don't you realize, Madame Obosky, that we are in the gravest
                            peril? Don't you know this ship has but one chance in a
                            thousand to pull through?"
                        "Ah, my friend, but it has the one chance, has it not? Surely I
                            know the meaning of fear. I am afraid of rats and snakes and thieves and
                            drunken soldiers. I am afraid of death, terribly afraid of death. Oh,
                            yes, I know what fear is, Mr. Percivail."
                        
                        "Then, why don't you show it now?" he cried.
                            "Good Lord, I don't mind confessing that I'm
                            scared half to death. I don't want to die like this, like a rat
                            in a trap."
                        "But you are not going to die," she proclaimed.
                            "I too would be groaning and praying in my bed if I thought we
                            were going down to the bottom of zis dreadful ocean. But we are not. I
                            have no fear. We shall come out all right on top, and some day we will
                            laugh and tell funny stories about how everybody else was frightened but
                            us, us apiece, I mean."
                        "Well, you're a wonder! And how the deuce do you manage
                            to keep your feet with the ship rolling like this?"
                        "Two things I have been taught, since I am ten years old. First,
                            to keep my head, and second to keep my feet. In my profession, one must
                            do both. You will always find me doing that. Good-bye, we part here. You
                            will not forget zat that I have retain the bandage for you? And you will
                            not ever despise me?"
                        As she turned away a roll that must have caused the wallowing vessel to
                            list thirty-five degrees at the very least, sent her headlong across the
                            passage. She slipped down in a heap. The same lurch had sent him reeling
                            against the wall some distance away. She sat up but did not at once
                            attempt to arise. Instead she clutched frantically at her skirt to draw
                            it down over her shapely ankles and calves. In the lantern light he saw
                            the dismayed, shamed look in her eyes and the vivid blush of
                            embarrassment that suffused her pale cheeks. As the ship rolled back, he
                            moved forward to assist her, but she sprang lightly to her feet and
                            hurried on ahead of him, disappearing around a corner.
                        
                        "Well, by gosh!" he muttered aloud in his surprise.
                            "And she dances half naked before thousands of people every
                            night! Can you beat it! The last person in the world you'd
                            think would care a whoop, and she turns out to be as finicky about her
                            legs as your grandmother. Women certainly are queer."
                        With this profound comment on the inconsistency of the sex, he took
                            himself off in the direction of the Captain's quarters, a
                            forward cabin which served in lieu of the dismantled bridge.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER VII
                        HE saw but little of her during the next forty-eight hours. She seemed to
                            avoid him. At any other time and in other circumstances he undoubtedly
                            would have resented her indifference, a very common and natural
                            masculine failing, but in these strenuous hours he was too fully
                            occupied with the affairs of life and death. Once she stopped him to
                            inquire if Miss Clinton was still able to dress his wounds.
                        "Once a day," he replied. "She's even
                            pluckier than you are, Madame Obosky."
                        Her eyes narrowed. "Indeed?"
                        "Yes, because she believes we are going to die every one of us.
                            It takes pluck to keep going when you've got that sort of thing
                            to face, doesn't it?"
                        Her gesture took in the dozen or more men within range of her vision.
                            "It should take no more pluck to keep a woman going than a man,
                            my friend. You do not call yourself plucky, do you? I do not call myself
                            plucky. On the contrary, I call myself a coward. I am afraid to stay in
                            my stateroom. I like to be out in the open like zis. One has to be very,
                            very brave, Mr. Percivail, to lie in one's bed all alone and
                            think that death is waiting just outside the thin little walls. Miss
                            Clinton is splendid, but she is not plucky. She is as I am: afraid of
                            the darkness, afraid to be alone, afraid to be where she cannot know and
                            see all zat is happening. She has a woman's courage, just as I
                            have it, if you please. It is the courage that  depends so much on the courage of others. You think I am
                            brave. I am brave because I am with trained, efficient men. But if the
                            Captain were to come to me now, as I stand here, and say zat the ship is
                            to sink in ten minutes and that we all must go down with her, would I
                            face it bravely? No! I would throw myself down on the floor and scream
                            and pray and tear my hair. Why? Because the men had given up. I am kept
                            up by the courage of others. That is the courage of woman. She must be
                            supported in her pain, in her suffering, in her courage."
                        "Well, if you put it that way, there are very few men who would
                            take such an announcement from the Captain calmly."
                        "Perhaps not, my friend. But if there were room for but few in
                            the boats, who would stay behind and go down with the ship? Nine out of
                            every ten of the men. Why? Not because they are all courageous, I grant
                            you, but because of the horrible conceit that makes them our masters.
                            Pride and conceit constitute what stands for courage in most men. The
                            wild animal has no conceit, he has no pride. Does the male lion rush out
                            to be shot in place of his mate? He do not. He sneaks off in the high
                            reeds and leaves her to take care of herself. The Captain of this
                            steamer is so full of pride zat he will stay on it till it goes under
                            the wave. It is not courage, Mr. Percivail. It is his pride in the power
                            zat that God has give to his sex. These men here, you, my friend, face
                            the danger now so unflinching for why? Because for ages and ages you
                            have believe in and depend upon the man beside you, the men around you.
                            Zat is the difference between man and woman. Woman believes in and
                            depends on man. She has no faith in her own sex. So,  you see, my friend, when I say I am brave
                            and you say Miss Clinton is plucky, it is all because we have men about
                            us who are so proud and conceited zat they will die before they will
                            admit that they are not as helpless and as weak as we are in times like
                            zis."
                        "You may be right," he mused, struck by her argument.
                            "It's usually pride that makes a man stand up and
                            fight another, even when he knows he's sure to be beaten.
                            It's neither confidence nor courage. It's just plain
                            fear of being a coward."
                        "You will admit then that I understand the wonderful male animal
                            which struts on two legs and rules all the other animals of the world,
                            eh? It is the only animal in the whole big world zat that is completely
                            satisfied with itself. So now, Mr. Percivail, you have the secret of the
                            so-called courage of the male of our species."
                        "I hope all women haven't gone into the subject so
                            deeply," he said, with a rueful smile. "You make
                            rather small potatoes of us."
                        "Ah, do not say that," she cried, "for, alas,
                            I am denied potatoes."
                        "Well, then," he said, laughing, "if all women
                            understood us as well as you do, we wouldn't rule the world
                            very much longer. They'd yank us off the pedestal and revile us
                            forevermore."
                        "But you do not understand women, my friend. Did we not bring
                            you into the world? Are you not our sons, and therefore begotten to be
                            kings? We may despise our husbands, we may loathe our brothers and our
                            fathers, we women, but our sons are the gods we worship. My dear Mr.
                            Percivail, women will go on being ruled to the end of time unless they
                            cease populating the world with sons. The mother of the man is  the humblest subject of the son and yet
                            the proudest. The mothers of kings, of emperors, of presidents, do they
                            think of them as kings, emperors, presidents? No. They think of them as
                            sons. That is why man is supreme. That is why he rules. To be sure, we
                            women are not always disposed to have our husbands rule, we even go so
                            far as to say they are not fit to rule, but alas, the men we are
                            permitted to know the best of all are always the sons of some one else,
                            and so there you have the endless chain. Sons! Sons! Sons! Sons to
                            create new sons, sons without end, amen! God bless our sons!"
                        "And I say God bless our mothers!"
                        "In that one little sentence, Mr. Percivail, spoke from the
                            heart, you have reveal the secret history of the world. You have account
                            for everything."
                        "You are a million years old, Madame Obosky," he said,
                            looking into her deep, unfathomable eyes.
                        She smiled. "So? And which of my sons, Mr. Percivail, do you
                            think I love the most? Cain or Abel?"
                        "It would take a woman to answer that question. There's
                            one thing certain, however. You loved both of them more than you loved
                            Adam."
                        "True. But I followed Adam out of the Garden of Eden and I have
                            never left his heels from zat day to this. What more could any man
                            ask?"
                        On the second morning after the storm, the lookout fixed his straining
                            eyes on a far-distant, shadowy line that had not been a part of the
                            boundless horizon the day before. Dawn was breaking, night was lifting
                            her sheet from the new-born day. He waited. He could not be sure.
                            Minutes that seemed like hours passed. Then suddenly his hoarse shout
                            rose out of the silence:
                        
                        "Land ho!"
                        Down into the heart of the ship boomed the cry, taken from the
                            lookout's lips by one after another of the weary men below. The
                            sweating, exhausted toilers who manned the pumps paused for a moment,
                            then fell to work again revitalized. Out from the cabins, up from every
                            nook and corner of the ship scrambled the excited horde, fully dressed,
                            their faces haggard with doubt, their eyes aglow with joy. Land! In
                            every round little window gleamed a face, for a moment only along the
                            portside. Nothing but the same endless ocean on the port side of the
                            ship. Water! Sick and wounded drew themselves up to the portholes and
                            peered out from their cells for the first time.
                        "Where? . . . Where? . . . Where?" ran the wild, eager
                            cry of the scurrying throng, and there was disappointment bitter
                            disappointment in their voices. They had been tricked. There was no land
                            in sight! The glasses of the ship's officers, clustered far
                            forward, were directed toward some point off the starboard bow, but if
                            there was land over there it was not visible to the naked eye. A junior
                            engineer saluted Captain Trigger and left the group.
                        "There is land ahead, a long way off," he announced as
                            he passed through the throng in the saloon deck.
                        Up above the clamour of questions shouted from all sides as the crazed
                            people flocked behind the messenger of hope, rose the voice of Morris
                            Shine.
                        "Land ahoy! Ahoy-yoy-yoy!" he yelled over and over
                            again, his chin raised like that of a dog baying at the moon.
                        Every person on deck was either carrying a life-belt  or was already encased in one. Grim orders of the night
                            just past. Here and there were to be seen men who clutched tightly the
                            handles of suitcases and kit bags! Evidently they were expecting to step
                            ashore at once. In any case, they belonged to the class of people who
                            never fail to crowd their way down the gang-plank ahead of every one
                            else. The fashionable ocean liners always have quite a number of these
                            on board, invariably in the first cabin.
                        Percival ranged the decks in quest of Ruth Clinton. She was well aft on
                            the boat deck, where the rail was not so crowded as it was forward. Her
                            arm was about the drooping, pathetic figure of her aunt. They were
                            staring intently out over the water, the girl's figure erect,
                            vibrant, alive with the spirit of youth, her companion's
                            sagging under the doubt and scepticism of age. He hesitated a moment
                            before accosting them. Nicklestick, the Jew, was excitedly retailing the
                            news to them. He went so far as to declare that he could see land quite
                            clearly, and so could they if they would only look exactly where he was
                            pointing. He claimed to have been one of the very first men on board to
                            see the land.
                        Ruth was hatless. Her braided brown hair had been coiled so hastily, so
                            thoughtlessly that stray strands fell loose about her neck and ears to
                            be blown gaily by the breeze across her cheek. Her blouse was open at
                            the neck, her blue serge jacket flared in the wind. Every vestige of the
                            warm, soft colour had left her face. She was deathly pale with emotion.
                        Percival was suddenly conscious of a mist bedimming his eyes.
                        Several people were grouped near them at the rail,  listening to Nicklestick. The stowaway joined them. As if
                            sensing his presence, Ruth turned suddenly and saw him.
                        "Oh!" she cried, tremulously. "Have have you
                            seen it, Mr. Percival?"
                        "No," he replied. "It won't be
                            visible for an hour or so longer. It's off there all right,
                            though. The lookout, Captain Trigger and several others got a glimpse of
                            it before the sun began to pull the mist up to obscure it for a little
                            while. That's mist over there," he went on, turning to
                            Nicklestick. "You couldn't see the Andes Mountains if
                            they were where that strip of land is hidden. It won't be long,
                            Miss Clinton, before we all can see it."
                        "How far away is it?" she asked, controlling her voice
                            with an effort. "Do they know? Can they estimate?"
                        "I'll tell you what let's do," he
                            said abruptly. "Let's go up on the sun deck.
                            I've got Mr. Gray's glasses. We can see better up
                            there. Let me assist you, Mrs. Spofford. The sun deck is pretty badly
                            smashed up and littered with all sorts of wreckage, but we can manage it
                            all right."
                        Mrs. Spofford looked at him intently for a moment.
                        "I remember you now," she said. "Are you sure,
                            are you positive there is land over there?"
                        "I have Captain Trigger's word for it."
                        "And mine, too," added Mr. Nicklestick. "You
                            may rest assured, Mrs. Spofford, that we will all be on dry land before
                            many hours."
                        Percival leaned close to the speaker and said in a very low but emphatic
                            tone:
                        "You don't know a damn' thing about it, so
                            keep your trap closed. If you're a man, you won't go
                            on  raising false hopes in the breasts of
                            these women."
                        Nicklestick's jaw fell. He whispered:
                        "My God, ain't we you don't mean to say there
                            is a chance we won't be able to "
                        But Percival had turned away with the two women. Mrs. Spofford took his
                            arm, leaning heavily against him. Her figure had straightened, however.
                            He had given her the needed confidence.
                        They made their way up the steps leading to the topmost deck. Others had
                            already preceded them. A dozen men and women were looking out over the
                            sea through their binoculars. They recognized Landover, Madame
                            Careni-Amori (clutching her jewel case), Joseppi, Fitts and one or two
                            more. Olga Obosky was well forward, seated on the edge of a partially
                            wrecked skylight and ventilator. Her three dancing girls were with her,
                            closely grouped.
                        Percival purposely remained near the steps. He knew full well that the
                            ship's hours were numbered. It was only a question of time when
                            she would founder. In the lee of one of the big stacks they huddled
                            close together and waited for the lifting of the veil. The wind was soft
                            but strong up there at the top of the vessel. He took hope in the fact
                            that it was blowing toward the shores of that unseen land, and that
                            slowly but surely the Doraine was drifting thither.
                        Suddenly, as if a curtain were being raised, a far-off line appeared on
                            the surface of the waters. Higher rose the curtain, and like magic the
                            line developed into an irregular ridge, the ends of which sank below the
                            horizon far to the right and left.
                        Percival felt the girl's hand on his arm. He shot a swift glance
                            at her face. It was turned away. She was staring at the mystic panorama
                            that was being  unveiled off there on the
                            rim of the world. Her eyes were bright, her lips were parted in the
                            ecstasy of hope revived, she was breathing deeply. The pulse in her
                            smooth white neck was beating rapidly, rythmically. He could see it. He
                            laid his bandaged hand firmly upon hers and pressed it tightly to his
                            arm. She did not look around. Her every thought was centred upon the
                            unfolding vision.
                        "There are trees," she murmured, enthralled.
                            "Trees, and hills! See, Auntie, but oh, how far away they
                            are!"
                        For many minutes they stood there without speaking. Then from all sides
                            came the clamour of voices, shouts of joy, cheers, laughter! She looked
                            down at the clumsy object that imprisoned her hand, then swiftly up into
                            his eyes. A warm flush spread over her face.
                        "I I couldn't help it," he muttered.
                            "It it looked so helpless."
                        "It isn't half as helpless as yours, Mr.
                            Percival," she said, and smiled. She waited a moment before
                            withdrawing her hand. "May I have the glasses, please? Had you
                            forgotten them?"
                        "Completely," he replied.
                        Later, while Mrs. Spofford was peering through the glasses, she drew him
                            aside.
                        "Tell me about the water in the hold," she said in a
                            low tone. "Is it serious?"
                        He looked grave. "Very. If you will take a peep over the side of
                            the ship, you'll see how low down she is in the
                            water."
                        "My aunt doesn't know the ship is leaking,"
                            she went on, hurriedly. "I want to keep it from her as long as
                            possible." He nodded his head.
                        "Mr. Mott figures we'll stay afloat for ten or twelve
                                 hours, maybe longer. I will see to it
                            that you and Mrs. Spofford get into one of the boats in case we well,
                            just in case, you know. We will be given ample warning, Miss Clinton.
                            Things don't look as hopeless as they did last night."
                            He pointed toward the land. "It looks like heaven,
                            doesn't it?"
                        Her face clouded. "But only a very few of us may " she
                            stopped, shuddering.
                        "You poor little girl!" he cried brokenly. He steadied
                            himself and went on: "It wouldn't surprise me in the
                            least if every blessed one of us got safely ashore."
                        "You do not believe that, Mr. Percival. I can tell by the look
                            in your eyes. I want you to promise me one thing. If we have to take to
                            the boats, you will come with us "
                        He drew himself up. "My dear Miss Clinton, there is quite a
                            difference between being a stowaway on an ocean liner and being one in a
                            lifeboat. I have no standing on this ship. I have no right in one of her
                            boats. I am the very last person on board to be considered."
                        She looked searchingly into his eyes, her own wide with comprehension.
                            "You mean you will make no effort to leave the ship until every
                            one else is "
                        He checked her with a gesture of his hand. "I may be one of the
                            first to leave. But I'll not rob any one else of his place in a
                            boat or his space on one of those rafts. I'll swim for
                            it."
                        Slowly the land crept down upon the Doraine. The
                            illusion was startling. The ship seemed to be lying absolutely
                            motionless; it was the land that approached instead of the other way
                            round. A thin white beach  suddenly emerged
                            from the green background to the left, to the right an ugly mass of
                            rocks took shape, stretching as far as the eye could reach. Farther
                            inland rose high, tree covered hills, green as emeralds in the blazing
                            sunlight. On a sea of turquoise lolled the listless Doraine.
                        
                        Soundings were taken from time to time. Even the bottom of the ocean was
                            coming up to meet the Doraine. Its depth appreciably
                            lessened with each successive measurement. From fifty fathoms it had
                            decreased to ten since the first line was dropped.
                        At four o'clock, Captain Trigger ordered a boat lowered and
                            manned by a picked crew in charge of the Second Engineer. The Doraine was about five miles off shore at the time,
                            and was drifting with a noticeably increased speed directly toward the
                            rock-bound coast. He had hoped she would go aground in the shallow
                            waters off the sandy beach, but there was now no chance that such a
                            piece of good fortune was in store for her. She was going straight for
                            the huge black rocks.
                        The boat's crew rowed in for observations. Even before they
                            returned to report, the anxious officers on board the vessel had made
                            out a narrow fissure in the rocky coast line. They assumed that it was
                            the mouth of a small river. The Second Engineer brought back the
                            astonishing information that this opening in the coast was the gateway
                            to a channel that in his judgment split the island into two distinct
                            sections. That it was not the mouth of a river was made clear by the
                            presence of a current so strong that his men had to exert themselves to
                            the utmost to prevent the boat being literally sucked into the channel
                            by the powerful tide, which apparently was at its full. This opening,
                                 the water rushed into it so swiftly
                            that he was satisfied it developed into a gorge farther back from the
                            coast, was approximately two hundred yards wide, flanked on either side
                            by low lying, formidable bastions of rock. The water was not more than
                            fifty feet deep off the entrance to the channel.
                        Gradually the prow of the Doraine swung around and
                            pointed straight for the cleft in the shore. The ship, two miles out,
                            had responded to the insidious pressure of the current and was being
                            drawn toward the rocks, at first so slowly that there was scarcely a
                            ripple off her bows; then, as she lumbered onward, she began to turn
                            over the water as a ploughshare turns over the land.
                        At precisely six o'clock she slid between the rocky portals and
                            entered a canal so straight and true that it might have been drilled and
                            blasted out of the earth under the direction of the most skilful
                            engineers in the world.
                        Soundings were hastily taken. Discovering that the water was not deep
                            enough even at high tide to submerge the vessel when the inevitable came
                            to pass and she sank to the bottom, Captain Trigger renewed his efforts
                            to release the anchor chains, which had been caught and jammed in the
                            wreckage. He realized the vital necessity for checking the Doraine in her flight before she accomplished the miracle of
                            passing unhindered through the channel and out into the open sea beyond.
                            The swiftness of the current indicated plainly enough that this natural
                            canal was of no great length.
                        The ship slid on between the tree lined banks. The trees were of the
                            temperate zone, with spreading limbs, thick foliage and hardy trunks.
                            There were no palms visible, but in the rarely occurring open spaces a
                            large  shrub abounded. This was instantly
                            recognized by Percival, who proclaimed it to be the algaroba, a plant
                            commonly found on the Gran Chaco in Argentina. While the woodland was
                            thick there was nothing about it to suggest the tropical jungle with its
                            impenetrable fastnesses.
                        The keel of the half-sunken Doraine was scraping
                            ominously on the bed of the channel. She shivered and swerved from
                            frequent contact with submerged rocks, but held her course with uncanny
                            steadiness, while every soul on board gazed with stark, despairing eyes
                            at the land which mocked them as they passed. Far on ahead loomed the
                            lofty hills, and beyond them lay What? The ocean?
                        Gradually the passage widened. Its depth also increased. The ship no
                            longer scraped the bottom, she no longer caromed off the sunken rocks.
                            On the other hand, water poured into her interior with increasing force
                            and volume, indicating a disastrous rent forward. She was sloshing along
                            toward the centre of a basin which appeared to be half a mile wide and
                            not more than a mile long. Directly ahead of her the hills came down to
                            meet the water. A dark narrow cut, with towering sides, indicated an
                            outlet for the tiny, inland sea. This gorge, toward which the Doraine was being resistlessly drawn, appeared to be
                            but little wider than the ship itself.
                        Almost in the shadow of the hills, and within a dozen ship-lengths of the
                            sinister opening, the worn, exhausted, beaten Doraine
                            came to rest at the end of her final voyage. She shivered and groaned
                            under the jarring impact, forged onward half her length, heeled over
                            slightly and died! She was anchored for ever in the tiny landlocked sea,
                            proud leviathan whose days  had been spent
                            in the boundless reaches of the open deep.
                        And here for the centuries to come would lie the proud Doraine, guided to her journey's end by the pilot
                            Chance, moored for all time in the strangest haven ever put into by man.
                        Behind the stranded vessel stretched centuries incalculable, and in all
                            these centuries no man had entered here. Screened from the rest of the
                            world, untended by chortling tugs, unheralded by raucous sirens,
                            welcomed only by primeval solitude, the Doraine had
                            come to rest.
                        She settled down on her bed of rocks to sleep for evermore, a mottled
                            monster whose only covering was the night; indifferent to storm and
                            calm, to time and tide, to darkness and light, she sat serene in her
                            little sea. Her lofty walls towered high above the waves that broke
                            tremblingly against them, as if afraid of this strange object from
                            another world that could rest upon the bottom of the ocean and yet be so
                            far above them.
                        Reported "Lost with all on board!"
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER VIII
                        CAPTAIN TRIGGER and a dozen men stood on the boat deck with guns and
                            revolvers, facing several hundred sullen, determined men and women from
                            the steerage. Night had not yet fallen; the shadow of the hills,
                            however, was reaching half way across the oval pool; gloom impenetrable
                            had settled on the wooded shores.
                        With the striking of the Doraine, nearly every one on
                            board was hurled to the decks. As she heeled over five or six degrees in
                            settling herself among the rocks, a panic ensued among the ignorant
                            people of the steerage. They scrambled to their feet and made a rush for
                            the boats, shouting and screaming in their terror. Other passengers were
                            trampled under foot and sailors standing by the davits were hurled
                            aside.
                        Captain Trigger, anticipating just such a stampede, rushed up with
                            members of the gun crew. The gaunt, broken old master of the Doraine drove the horde back from the boats, but as he
                            stood there haranguing them in good maritime English he could see
                            plainly enough that they were not to be so easily subdued. The first
                            panic was over, but they were crazed by the fear that had gripped them
                            for days; they believed that the ship was soon to sink beneath their
                            feet; safety lay not more than a hundred yards away, and it was being
                            denied them by this heartless, unfeeling despot.
                        They were mainly low-caste Portuguese bound for  Rio and Bahia, and they had obeyed him through all those
                            tortuous days out on the deep where he was the shepherd and they the
                            flock. But now, now they could well afford to turn upon and rend him,
                            for he had brought them safe to land and they no longer owed him
                            anything!
                        "My God, I don't want to shoot any of them,"
                            groaned the Captain, steadying himself against the rail. "But
                            they've got guns, and they're crazy. I "
                        Some one touched his arm, and a firm, decisive voice spoke in his ear.
                        "I'm used to handling gangs like this, Captain Trigger.
                            They don't understand you, but they'll damn soon
                            understand me, if you'll turn the job over to me. I'm
                            not trying to be officious, sir, and I'm not even hinting that
                            you can't bring 'em to their senses. I know how to handle 'em and you don't,
                            that's all. They're not sailors, you see. And it
                            isn't mutiny. They need a boss, sir, that's what they
                            need. And they need him damned quick, so if you don't mind
                            saying the word, they're ready to make a rush, and if
                            "
                        "Go ahead, Percival, if you can hold them "
                        "Say no more!" shouted Percival, and stepped resolutely
                            forward. His hands were bare, swollen, red and ugly; his eyes were as
                            cold as steel, his voice as sharp as a keen-edged sword. He spoke in
                            Spanish to the wavering, threatening horde.
                        "You damned, sneaking, low-lived cowards! What sort of swine are
                            you? Have you no thought for the women you've trampled upon and
                            beaten out of your path, your own women, as well as the others, think of
                            them and ask yourselves if you are men. I'm in command of this
                            ship now, and, by God, I'm going to  let you get into those boats and start for shore.
                            Don't cheer! You don't know what's coming to
                            you. I'm going to turn that cannon on you up there and blow
                            every one of you to hell and gone before you get fifty feet from the
                            side of this ship. You don't believe that, eh? Well,
                            that's exactly what I'm going to do. Lieutenant
                            Platt!" He called over his shoulder in English to the young
                            commander of the gun's crew. "Get some of your men up
                            there and train that gun so as to blow these boats to smithereens.
                            Quick!" In a half-whisper to the Captain:
                            "It's all right. I know what I'm talking
                            about." Then to the crowd: "We don't want you
                            on board this ship a minute longer than we can help. We've got
                            no room for dogs here among decent white men and women. Do you
                            understand that? We don't want to have anything more to do with
                            you, either here or on shore. I'm going to wipe you out, every
                            damned one of you, men women and children. You're not fit to
                            live. You're going to climb into those boats now and get off
                            this ship. You'll never realize how safe you are here till you
                            get down there in the water and hear that gun go off. Come on! Get a
                            move! We're through with you, now and for ever.
                            Nobody's going to stop you. I'm even going to have the
                            boats lowered for you, so as not to delay matters." He shouted
                            after Lieutenant Platt: "Be lively, please. You've got
                            your orders. We'll make short work of this pack of
                            wolves." To Captain Trigger, authoritatively:
                            "Withdraw your men, sir. I am going to let them leave the ship.
                            At once, sir! Do you mean to disobey me, sir?" He gave the
                            captain a sly wink.
                        Then as the bewildered master withdrew with his armed men, he turned once
                            more to the mob. "Come  on! Step
                            lively, now! No rushing! Take your turn. Every blasted one of you, I
                            mean. What the hell are you hanging back for, you? You
                            were so darned eager to go a little while ago, what's the
                            matter with you now? No one's trying to stop you. Here are the
                            boats. Put up your guns and knives, and pile in. You're
                            absolutely free to go, you swine. We'll be damned good and rid
                            of you, and that's all we're asking. It's a
                            pity to waste powder and cannon-balls on you, when we may have use for
                            all we've got later on, killing the lions and tigers and
                            anacondas up there in the woods, but I'm going to do
                            it."
                        He stepped back. Not a man or woman moved. They stood transfixed, packed
                            in a huddled mass along the deck. Then a woman cried out for mercy. The
                            cry was taken up by other women. Percival halted and faced them once
                            more.
                        "Get into those boats!" he roared savagely.
                            "It won't do you a bit of good to whine and pray and
                            squeal. I'm through with you. You've got to
                            Well?"
                        Several of the men edged forward, some of them trying to smile.
                        "Would you kill us when we are only trying to save our
                            lives?" called out one of them, finding his courage and voice.
                        "I don't want to talk to you. Get in!"
                        "We have as much right to remain on this ship as anybody
                            else," shouted another. "We paid for our passage. We
                            are honest, hard-working "
                        "No use! I'll give you ten minutes to climb into those
                            boats."
                        There was a moment's silence.
                        "And what will you do if we refuse to leave the  ship?" cried one of the men.
                            "Be quiet!" he bawled at the whimpering women.
                            "We cannot hear what the gentleman has to say."
                        "You'll soon find out what I'll do, if you
                            don't obey me inside of ten minutes," replied
                            Percival.
                        "But the ship is not going to sink any more," protested
                            another, looking over the rail timidly. "She is safe. We do not
                            wish to leave now."
                        Captain Trigger and Mr. Mott joined Percival. In an undertone he told
                            them what he had said to the mob.
                        "And now, gentlemen," he whispered in conclusion,
                            "it's up to you to intercede in their behalf.
                            They're as tame as rabbits now. They know the ship's
                            all right, and they believe I intend to blow 'em to pieces if
                            they once put off in the boats. Start in now, Captain, and argue with
                            me. Plead for them. They know who I am. They know I come from the hills
                            and they think I'm a bloodthirsty devil. They're like
                            a lot of cattle. Most of them are simple, honest, God-fearing people,
                            and if we handle them properly now we'll not have much trouble
                            with them in the future. And only the Good Lord knows what the future is
                            going to bring."
                        So the three of them argued, two against one. Finally Percival threw up
                            his hands in a gesture of complete surrender.
                        "All right, Captain. I give in. Perhaps you are right. I suppose
                            it would be butchery."
                        There were a few in the crowd who understood English. These edged forward
                            eagerly, hopefully. They called out protestations against the
                            "slaughter."
                        "Tell them you have reconsidered, Mr. Percival," said
                            the Captain. "They are to remain on board."
                        
                        Excited shouts went up from the few who understood, and then the word
                            went among the others that they were to be spared. There were cries of
                            relief, joy, gratitude, and not a few fell upon their knees!
                        Percival stood forth once more. Silence fell upon the throng.
                        "The Captain has put in a plea for you, and I have decided to
                            grant it. You may remain on board. Now, listen to me! No one is to leave
                            this ship until tomorrow morning. We are safe here. We are stuck fast on
                            the bottom, and nothing can happen to us at present. Tomorrow we will
                            see what is best to be done. Every man and woman here is to return to
                            the task he was given by Mr. Mott at the beginning of our troubles.
                            We've got to eat, and sleep, and Wait a minute! Well, all
                            right, beat it, if you feel that way about it."
                        He stood watching them as they excitedly withdrew toward the bow of the
                            ship, breaking up into clattering groups, all of them talking at once.
                        Captain Trigger laid his hand on the young man's shoulder.
                        "If it had not been for you, Percival, this deck would now be
                            red with blood, and some of us would be dead. You saved a very ticklish
                            situation. I take off my hat to you, and I say, with a full heart, that
                            I shall never again doubt your ability to handle men. No one but an
                            American could have tricked that mob as you did, my lad."
                        From various points of vantage the foregoing scene had been witnessed by
                            uneasy, alarmed persons from the upper cabins. Overwhelmed and dismayed
                            by the rush of the yelling mob, the elect had fled for safety,  urged by a greater fear than any that had
                            gone before, the fear of rioting men.
                        A few of them, more daring and inquisitive than the rest, had ventured
                            recklessly into the zone of danger. Among them were Ruth Clinton and
                            Madame Olga Obosky, who, disregarding the command of Mr. Mott, were the
                            only women to venture beyond the protecting corner of the deck building.
                            They stood side by side, bracing themselves against the downward slope
                            of the deck. Half-way forward were Trigger and the armed gunners, and
                            beyond them the dense, irresolute mass of humanity. Percival, in
                            rounding the corner to go to the assistance of Captain Trigger, observed
                            with dismay the exposed position in which the two women had placed
                            themselves. He paused to cry out to them sharply:
                        "What are you doing here? Get back to the other side.
                            Can't you see there is likely to be shooting? Don't
                            stand there like a couple of idiots! You're right in line if
                            that gang begins to fire."
                        "He is tearing off his bandages," cried Ruth, as
                            Percival hurried on.
                        Madame Obosky was silent, her gaze fixed intently on the brisk,
                            aggressive figure of the man who had called them idiots. She understood
                            every word he uttered to the Portuguese. Her eyes glistened with pride
                            when he stepped forward to tackle the mob single-handed, and as he went
                            on with his astonishing speech she actually broke into a soft giggle.
                            Her companion looked at her in amazement.
                        "Why do you laugh?" she demanded hotly. "Those
                            dreadful creatures may tear him to pieces. He is unarmed and
                            defenceless. They could sweep him "
                        "You would laugh also if you understood," interrupted
                                 Olga, her eyes dancing. "Oh,
                            what a grand what do you call it? bluff? What a magnificent bluff he is
                            doing! It is beautiful. See, they whisper among themselves, they have
                            back down completely. Wait! I will presently tell you what he have said
                            to them."
                        "I never dreamed any man could be so fearless. Look at the odds
                            against him. There are scores of them, and they "
                        "Pooh! Do you suppose he would stand up and fight them if they
                            rushed at him? Not he! He would turn and run as fast as he could. He is
                            no fool, my dear. He is a very intelligent man. So he would run if they
                            make a single move toward him."
                        "I think this is rather a poor time to accuse him of cowardice,
                            Madame Obosky, in view of what he "
                        "Have I accused him of cowardice?"
                        "I'd like to know what you call it. You say he would
                            run if they "
                        "But that would not be cowardice. It would be the simplest kind
                            of common sense. He is so very sure of himself. It is not courage. It is
                            confidence. That is his strength. He would be a fool to stand in front
                            of them empty-handed if they were to charge upon him. Maybe when you
                            have known him as long as I have, you will realize he is not a fool,
                            about himself or any one else."
                        Ruth stared at her. "Unless I am greatly mistaken, Madame
                            Obosky, I have known Mr. Percival as long if not longer than you
                            have."
                        "You do not know him at all," rejoined the Russian
                            brusquely. "Be still, please! I must hear what he is saying to
                            them now." A little later she turned to the American girl and
                            laid her hand on her arm. "Forgive  me, if I was rude to you. I am so very much older than you that I how
                            old are you, Miss Clinton?"
                        "I am twenty-five," replied the other, surprised into
                            replying.
                        "And I am twenty-six," said Madame Obosky, as if she
                            were at least twice the age of her companion. "See! They are
                            dispersing. It's all over. Come! Let us go back to the other
                            side."
                        "I am not ready to go back to the other side,"
                            protested the American girl, resisting the hand on her arm.
                            "Why should we go back, now that the danger is over?"
                        "Because we must not let him catch us here," urged Olga
                            in some agitation.
                        "And why not, pray?"
                        The Russian looked at her in astonishment. "But surely you heard
                            him tell us to go back to the other side. You heard him call us idiots,
                            Miss Clinton?"
                        And Ruth Clinton suffered herself to be hurried incontinently around the
                            corner of the deck building.
                        "Once, in Moscow, I saw a Grand Duke confront a mob of students
                            who had gathered in the street near his house. They were armed and they
                            had come to destroy this man himself. There were hundreds of them. He
                            walked straight toward them, his head erect, his shoulders squared, and
                            when they stopped he spoke to them as if they were dogs. When he had
                            finished, he turned his back upon them and walked away. They might have
                            filled him with bullets, but they did not fire a shot. At the corner he
                            entered his carriage and disappeared. And then what did he do? He
                            fainted, that Grand Duke, he did. Fainted like a stupid, silly young
                            girl. But while he was standing before zat  that mob of terrorists he was the strongest man in Russia.
                            Nevertheless, he was afraid of them. You have therefore the curious
                            spectacle to perceive, Miss Clinton, of one man being afraid of
                            hundreds, and of hundreds of men at the same time being afraid of one.
                            Man, he is a queer animal, eh?"
                        It was not long before the doubts and fears of all on board the Doraine gave way to a strange, unnatural state of
                            exhilaration. It represented joy without happiness, relief without
                            security, exultation without conviction, for, after all, there still
                            remained unanswered the question that robbed every sensation of its
                            thrill. While they were singing the hymns of thanksgiving in the saloon
                            that night, and listening to the fervent prayers; while they ate, drank
                            and were merry, their thoughts were not of the day but of the morrow.
                            What of the morrow? In the eyes of every one who laughed and sang dwelt
                            the unchanging shadow of anxiety; on every face was stamped an
                            expression that spoke more plainly than words the doubts and misgivings
                            that constituted the background of their jubilation. They had escaped
                            the sea, but would they ever escape the land? Had God, in answer to
                            their complaints and prayers, directed them to a land from which the
                            hand of man would never rescue them? Were they isolated here in the
                            untraversed southern seas, cast upon an island unknown to the rest of
                            the world? Or were they, on the other hand, within reach of human
                            agencies by which the world might be made acquainted with their plight?
                        Uppermost in every mind was the sickening recollection, however, that for
                            days they had ranged the sea without sighting a single craft. They were
                            far from the travelled lanes, they were out of the worthwhile  world. Hope rested solely on the
                            possibility that the hills and forests hid from view the houses and
                            wharves of a desolate little sea-town set up by the far-reaching people
                            of the British Isles.
                        The story of Percival's achievement was not long in going the
                            rounds. It went through the customary process of elaboration. By the
                            time it reached his ears, through the instrumentality of Mr. Morris
                            Shine, the motion picture magnate, it had assumed sufficient magnitude
                            to draw from that enterprising gentleman a bona fide offer of quite a
                            large sum for the film rights in case Mr. Percival would agree to
                            re-enact the thrilling scene later on. In fact, Mr. Shine, having
                            recovered his astuteness and his courage simultaneously, was already
                            working at the preliminary details of the most
                            "stupendous" picture ever conceived by man. His
                            deepest lament now was that he had neglected to bring a good camera man
                            down from New York, so that on the day of the explosion he could have
                            "got" the people actually jumping overboard, and
                            drowning in plain sight (although he did not see them because of the
                            trouble he was having to get a seat in one of the life-boats), and the
                            wounded scattered over the decks, the fire, the devastation, the
                            departure and return of the boats, the storm and all that followed,
                            including himself in certain judiciously preserved scenes, and the whole
                            production could have been made at practically no cost at all. There
                            never had been such an opportunity, complained Mr. Shine the moment he
                            felt absolutely certain that the opportunity was a thing of the past.
                        "No wonder he got away with it," said Mr. Landover to a
                            group of rejuvenated satellites. "He is hand in glove with
                            them, that fellow is. I wouldn't trust  him around the corner. Why, it's perfectly plain
                            to anybody with a grain of intelligence that he's the leader of
                            that gang of anarchists. All he had to do was to speak to them, in their
                            own language, mind you, and back they slunk to their quarters. They
                            obeyed him because he is their chosen leader, and that's all
                            there is to this What say, Fitts?"
                        Mr. Fitts, who was not a satellite but a very irritating Christian
                            gentleman, cleared his throat and said:
                        "I didn't speak, Mr. Landover. I always make a noise
                            like that when I yawn. It's an awfully middle-class habit
                            I've gotten into. Still, don't you think one obtains a
                            little more shall we say enjoyment? a little more enjoyment out of a
                            yawn if he lets go and puts his whole soul into it? Of course, it
                            isn't really necessary to utter the
                            'hi-ho-hum!' quite so vociferously as I do, in fact,
                            it might even be better to omit it altogether, if possible, when some
                            one else is speaking. There are, I grant you, other ways of expressing
                            one's complete mastery of the art of yawning, such as a
                            prolonged but audible sigh, or a sort of muffled howl, or even a series
                            of blissful little shrieks peculiar to the feminine of the species, any
                            one of these, I admit, is a trifle more elegant and up-to-date, but they
                            all lack the splendid resonance, you might even say grandiloquence, of
                            the old-fashioned 'hi-ho-hum!' to which I am addicted.
                            Now, if you will consider "
                        "My God!" exclaimed the banker, with a positively
                            venomous emphasis on the name of the Deity. "Who wants to know
                            anything about yawns?"
                        Mr. Fitts looked hurt. "I am sorry. My mistake. I thought you
                            were trying to change the subject when you interrupted my
                            yawn."
                        
                        "That fellow's a damn' fool," said
                            the banker, as Fitts strolled off to join another group.
                        "Try one of these cigars, Mr. Landover," said Mr.
                            Nicklestick persuasively. "Of course, they're nothing
                            like the kind you smoke, but "
                        "Is mine out? So it is. No, thank you. I'll take a
                            match, however, if you have one about you."
                        Four boxes were hastily thrust upon the great financier.
                        "Haf you noticed how poor the matches are lately, Mr.
                            Landover?" complained Mr. Block.
                        "As for this vagabond being superintendent of a mining
                            concession up in Bolivia," continued Landover, absentmindedly
                            sticking Mr. Nicklestick's precious box of matches into his own
                            pocket, "that's all poppy-cock. He's an
                            out-and-out adventurer. You can't fool me. I've
                            handled too many men in my time. I sized him up right from the start.
                            But the devil of it is, he's got all the officers on this boat
                            hypnotized. And most of the women too. I made it a point to speak to
                            Mrs. Spofford and her niece about him this morning, and the poor girl
                            has been making quite a fool of herself over him, you may have observed.
                            Mrs. Spofford owns quite a block of stock in our institution, so I
                            considered it my duty to put a flea in her ear, if you see what I
                            mean."
                        "Certainly, certainly," said Mr. Nicklestick.
                        "She should have been very grateful," said Mr. Block.
                        Mr. Landover frowned. "I'm going to speak to her again
                            as soon as she has regained her strength and composure. Nerves all shot
                            to pieces, you understand. Everything distorted, er shot to pieces, as I
                            say. I dare say I should have had more sense than to er  ahem! two or three days' rest,
                            that's what she needs, poor thing."
                        "Absolutely," said Mr. Nicklestick.
                        "You can't tell a woman anything when she's
                            upset," said Mr. Block, feelingly.
                        "Miss Clinton is a very charming young lady," said Mr.
                            Nicklestick, giving his moustache a slight twist. "I should
                            hate to see her lose her head over a fellow like him."
                        "She is a splendid girl," said Landover warmly.
                            "One of the oldest families in New York. She deserves nothing
                            but the best."
                        "That's right, that's right,"
                            assented Mr. Nicklestick. "I don't know when
                            I've met a more charming young lady, Mr. Landover."
                        "I didn't know you had met her," observed the
                            banker coldly.
                        "Oh, yes," replied Mr. Nicklestick. "We were
                            in the same lifeboat, Mr. Landover, you know, all night, you know, Mr.
                            Landover."
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER IX
                        EARLY the next morning, Percival turned out long before there were any
                            sounds from the galley or dining-room. The sun had not yet cleared the
                            tree-tops to the east; the decks of the Doraine were
                            still wet with dew. A few sailors were abroad; a dull-eyed junior
                            officer moodily picked his way through the debris on the forward deck.
                            Birds were singing and chattering in the trees that lined the shore;
                            down at the water's edge, like sentinels on duty, with an eye
                            always upon the strange, gigantic intruder, strutted a number of
                            stately, bright-plumaged birds of the flamingo variety (doubtless they
                            were flamingoes); the blue surface of the basin was sprinkled with the
                            myriad white, gleaming backs of winged fishermen, diving, flapping,
                            swirling; on high, far above the hills, soared two or three huge birds
                            with wings outspread and rigid, monarchs of all that they surveyed.
                        The stowaway leaned on the port rail and fixed his gaze upon the crest of
                            the severed hill, apparently the tallest of the half dozen or so that
                            were visible from his position.
                        With powerful glasses he studied the wooded slope. This hill was probably
                            twelve or fourteen hundred feet high. He thought of it as a hill, for he
                            had lived long in the heart of the towering Andes. Behind him lay the
                            belt of woodland that separated the basin from the open sea, a scant
                            league away. The cleft through the hill lay almost directly ahead.
                            It's walls apparently were perpendicular; a hundred feet or
                            less from the  pinnacle, the opening
                            spread out considerably, indicating landslides at some remote period,
                            the natural sloughing off of earth and stone in the formation of this
                            narrow, unnatural passage through the very centre of the little
                            mountain. For at least a thousand feet, however, the sides of the
                            passage rose as straight as a wall. That the mountain was of solid rock
                            could not be doubted after a single glance at those sturdy, unflinching
                            walls, black and sheer.
                        "Well, what do you make of it?" inquired a voice at his
                            elbow. He turned to find Mr. Mott standing beside him.
                        "Earthquake," he replied. "Thousands of years
                            ago, of course. Split the island completely in two."
                        "Sounds plausible," mused the First Officer.
                            "But if that is the case, how do you account for the
                            shallowness of the water in the passage and out here in the basin? An
                            earthquake violent enough to split that hill would make a crack in the
                            earth a thousand fathoms deep."
                        "I have an idea that if we took soundings in this basin
                            we'd find a section twenty or thirty feet wide in the centre of
                            it where we couldn't touch bottom. The same would be true of
                            the passage if we plumbed the middle. When we came through it the ship
                            scraped bottom time and again. As a matter of fact, the way I figure it
                            out, she was simply bumping against the upper edges of a crevice that
                            reaches down God knows how far. We took no soundings, you will remember,
                            until we swung out into this pool. I'll bet my head that that
                            cut through the hill yonder is a mile deep. Earthquake fissures seldom
                            go deeper than that, I've heard. Generally they are mere
                            surface cracks, a hundred feet deep at the outside. But this one,  My God, it gives me the creeps, that
                            crack in the earth does."
                        "Umph!" said Mr. Mott, his elbows on the rail beside
                            the young man, his chin in his hands. He was looking down at the water.
                            "Captain Trigger is planning to send a couple of boats outside
                            to survey the coast. I dare say he'll be asking you to go out
                            in one of them. You're a civil engineer and so he feels
                            "
                        "Excuse me, Mr. Mott, but what's the sense of sending
                            boats out to explore the coast before we find out how big the island
                            is?"
                        "What's the sense? Why, how are we to find out how big
                            the island is unless we make the circuit of it? And how in thunder are
                            we to find out that there isn't a village or some sort of
                            trading port on it What are you pointing up there for?"
                        Percival's finger was levelled at the top of the higher half of
                            the bisected mountain.
                        "See that hill, Mr. Mott? Well, unless we're on a
                            darned sight bigger island than I think we are, we can see from one end
                            of it to the other from the top of that hill. It isn't much of
                            a climb. A few huskies with axes to cut a path through the underbrush,
                            and we might get up there in a few hours. I've been figuring it
                            out. That's why I got up so early. Had it on my mind all night.
                            The sensible thing to do is to send a gang of us up there to have a look
                            around. Strange Captain Trigger never thought of it. I suppose
                            it's because he's an old sea-dog and not a
                            landlubber."
                        Mr. Mott coughed. "I fancy he would have thought of it in good
                            time."
                        "Well, in case he doesn't think of it in time, you
                            might suggest it to him, Mr. Mott."
                        
                        The result of this conversation was the formation of a party of explorers
                            to ascend the mountain. They were sent ashore soon after breakfast,
                            well-armed, equipped with axes and other implements, boat-hooks,
                            surveying instruments, and the most powerful glasses on board. Percival
                            was in command. The party was made up of a dozen men, half of them from
                            the gun crew, with an additional complement of laborers from the
                            steerage.
                        Ruth Clinton, as soon as she learned of the proposed expedition, sought
                            out Percival and insisted upon re-bandaging his hands.
                        "You must not go into all that tangle of brush-wood with your
                            hands unprotected," she declared, obstinately shaking her head
                            in response to his objections. "Don't be foolish, Mr.
                            Percival. It won't take me five minutes to wrap them up. Sit
                            down, I insist. You are still one of my patients. Hold out your
                            hand!"
                        "They are ever so much better," he protested, but he
                            obeyed her.
                        "Of course they are," she agreed, in a matter-of-fact
                            tone. "You did not give me a chance last night to tell you how
                            splendid you were in tackling that crazy mob. I witnessed it all, you
                            know. Madame Obosky and I."
                        "Then, you didn't beat it when I told you to,
                            eh?"
                        "Certainly not. What are you going to do about it?"
                        "What can I do? I can only say this: I'm glad Captain
                            Trigger's opinion of me is based on my ability to reason with
                            an ignorant mob and not on my power to intimidate a couple of very
                            intelligent young women."
                        
                        "I wouldn't have missed it for worlds," she
                            said coolly. She looked up into his eyes, a slight frown puckering her
                            brow. "Do you know, Madame Obosky had the impertinence to say
                            that you would have turned tail and fled if those people had shown
                            fight."
                        He grinned. "She's an amazing person, isn't
                            she? Wonderful faculty for sizing the most of us up."
                        "You would have run?"
                        "Like a rabbit," he answered, unabashed.
                            "That's a little too tight, I think, Miss Clinton.
                            Would you mind loosening it up a bit?"
                        "Oh, I'm sorry. Is that better? Now the other one,
                            please."
                        "Yes, I'm an awful coward," he said, after a
                            long silence.
                        She looked up quickly. Something in his eyes brought a faint flush to her
                            cheek. For a second or two she met his gaze steadily and then her eyes
                            fell, but not before he had caught the shy, wondering expression that
                            suddenly filled them. He experienced an almost uncontrollable desire to
                            lay his clumsy hand upon the soft, smooth brown hair. Through his mind
                            flashed a queer rush of comparison. He recalled the dark, knowing eyes
                            of the Russian dancer, mysterious and seductive, man-reading eyes from
                            which nothing was concealed, and contrasted them with the clear, honest,
                            blue-grey orbs that still could fall in sweet confusion. His heart began
                            to pound furiously, he felt a queer tightening of the throat. He was
                            afraid to trust his voice. How white and soft and gentle were her hands,
                            and how beautiful they were.
                        Suddenly she stroked the bandaged hand, as an amiable manicurist might
                            have done and arose.
                        "There!" she said, composedly. Her cheek was cool  and unflushed, her eyes serene and
                            smiling. "Now you may go, Mr. Percival. Good luck! Bring back
                            good news to us. I dreamed last night that we were marooned, that we
                            would have to stay here for ever."
                        "All of us?" he asked, a trifle thickly.
                        "Certainly," she replied, after the moment required for
                            comprehension. Her eyes were suddenly cold and uncompromising.
                        "If I never come back," he began, somewhat dashed,
                            "I'd like you to remember always, Miss Clinton, that I
                            well, that I am the most grateful dog alive. You've been
                            corking."
                        "But it isn't possible you won't come
                            back," she cried, and he was happy to see a flicker of alarm in
                            her eyes. "What what could happen to you? It
                            isn't "
                        "Oh, all sorts of things," he broke in, much in the
                            same spirit as that which dominates the boy who wishes he could die in
                            order to punish his parents for correcting him.
                        "Are are you really in earnest?"
                        "Would you care very much?"
                        She hesitated. "Haven't I wished you good luck, Mr.
                            Percival?"
                        "Would you mind answering my question?"
                        "Of course I should care, very much indeed," she
                            replied calmly. "I am sure that everybody would be terribly
                            grieved if anything were to happen to you out there."
                        "Well, good-bye, Miss Clinton. I guess they're waiting
                            for me."
                        "Good-bye! Oh, how I wish I were in your place! Just to put my
                            foot on the blessed, green earth once more. Good-bye! And and good luck,
                            again."
                        
                        "If you will take a pair of glasses and watch the top of that
                            hill, there is a bare knob up there, you see, you will know long before
                            we come back whether this island is inhabited or not. I am taking an
                            American flag with me. If we do not see another flag floating anywhere
                            on this island, I intend to plant the Stars and Stripes on that hill,
                            just for luck!"
                        She walked a few steps at his side, their bodies aslant against the slope
                            of the deck.
                        "And if you do not raise the flag, we shall know at once that
                            that there are other people here?" she said, her voice eager
                            with suppressed excitement. "It will mean that ships "
                            Her voice failed her.
                        "It will mean home, some day," he returned solemnly.
                        The one remaining port-side boat was lowered a few minutes later and to
                            the accompaniment of cheers from the throng that lined the rails, the
                            men pulled away, heading for a tiny cove on the far side of the basin.
                            The shore at that point was sloping and practically clear of
                            undergrowth.
                        It was while Percival was waiting to take his place in the boat that Olga
                            Obosky hurried up to him.
                        "I have brought my luck piece for you," she said, and
                            revealed in her open palm a small gold coin, worn smooth with age and
                            handling. "Carry it, my friend. Nothing will happen to you
                            while it is in your possession. It was given me by the son of a Grand
                            Duke. It was his lucky piece. It brought me luck, for he was killed zat
                            very same day, and so I was saved from him. Keep it in your pocket till
                            you come safely back and then then you shall return it to me, because I
                            would not be without my luck, no." She slipped her hand deep
                            into his trousers pocket. "There is no hole.  That is good. I have place it there. It
                            is safe. Au revoir! You will have good luck, my friend."
                        Withdrawing her warm hand from his pocket she turned and walked swiftly
                            away.
                        The throng on board the Doraine watched the party land;
                            hats and handkerchiefs were waved as the adventurers turned for a last
                            look behind, before they disappeared into the forest.
                        Hours passed, long interminable hours for those who were not engaged in
                            the active preparations for the landing of people and stores. Captain
                            Trigger was making ready to transfer the passengers from the ship at the
                            earliest possible moment. He was far from certain that the Doraine would maintain its rather precarious balance on the
                            rocks. With safety not much more than a stone's throw away, he
                            was determined to take no further risk.
                        At last a shout went up from some one on the forecastle deck. It was
                            taken up by eager voices. Out upon the bald crest of the mountain
                            straggled the first of the explorers to reach the goal. They were
                            plainly visible. One after another the rest of the party appeared. The
                            illusion was startling. It was as if they had actually emerged from the
                            tree-tops. With straining eyes the observers below watched the group of
                            figures outlined against the sky. They spoke in subdued tones. As time
                            went on and the flag was not unfurled, they took hope; eyes brightened,
                            the hushed tones increased to a cheerful, excited clatter, the tenseness
                            that had held them rigid for so long gave way before the growing
                            conviction that another flag already fluttered somewhere beyond the
                            screening hills.
                        And then, when hope was highest, the Stars and Stripes went up!
                        
                        Captain Trigger assembled the ship's company on the forward deck
                            later in the day. The landing party returned about three
                            o'clock. Acting on advance instructions, they made their report
                            in private to the Captain, denying all information to the clamorous
                            passengers. A brief conference of officers, to which a number of men
                            from the first cabin were invited, was held immediately after
                            Percival's return. A course of action was discussed and agreed
                            upon, and then all on board were summoned to the open deck to hear the
                            result of the expedition.
                        Percival reported the following facts and conclusions:
                        1. The island was approximately fifteen miles long and six or seven miles
                            wide in the centre. The basin in which the Doraine
                            rested was about midway between the extreme points, and about two miles
                            inland from the northern shore. The southern slope of the range
                            descended to a flat plain, or perhaps moor, some two miles across at its
                            broadest point and ran in varying width from one end of the island to
                            the other. It was green and almost entirely devoid of timber. The
                            central eminence from which the observations were taken was the loftiest
                            of a range of ten or twelve diminishing hills that formed what might
                            actually be described as the backbone of the island. The eastern
                            extremity tapered off to a long, level, low-lying promontory that ended
                            in a point so sharp and wedge-like that it bore a singular resemblance
                            to the forward deck and prow of a huge ironclad. The hills, as they
                            approached the plateau, terminated altogether a couple of miles from the
                            tip of land. The western half of the island (strictly speaking, it was a
                            separate bit of land, cut off from its neighbour by the ribbon-like
                            channel), was of a  more rugged character,
                            the hills, in fact, extending to the sea, forming, no doubt, steep and
                            precipitous cliffs, rising directly from the water's edge.
                        (Since his return, Percival had painted on a large piece of canvas a
                            fairly accurate outline map of the bisected island as it had appeared to
                            him from the top of the mountain. This crude map was hung up in full
                            view of the spectators, and served him well in an effort to make clear
                            his deductions. His original sketch is reproduced later on in this
                            chronicle.)
                        2. There was no visible sign of past or present human habitation.
                            Absolutely nothing appeared to indicate that man had ever attempted to
                            claim or occupy this virgin land.
                        3. The channel through the mountain was less than one hundred feet wide.
                            The walls of this gorge at one point were fully seven hundred feet high,
                            absolutely perpendicular, and of solid rock. It was as if the hill had
                            been split wide open with one blow of a tremendous broad-ax. Beyond the
                            elevation the channel spread out fan-fashion, creating a funnel-like bay
                            or inlet from the sea.
                        4. There was no other land in sight. As far as the eye could reach with
                            the aid of lenses there was nothing but water, a mighty waste of water.
                        5. The wind, which had veered around to the south, was cold and dry.
                        6. A curving beach of almost snowy whiteness extended for a mile or so
                            along the northern shore, about half way between the entrance to the
                            channel and the eastern point of land. Inside the fringe of trees that
                            lined this beach stretched what appeared to be a long strip of rolling
                            meadow-land, reaching far up the hill-sides.
                        
                        7. Monkeys, parrots and snakes abounded in the forest. An occasional
                            gay-plumaged bird of the toucan variety, but larger than the ordinary
                            South American species, was seen, while large numbers of plump birds of
                            the tinamou family went drumming off through the forest at the approach
                            of the party. Penguins strutted in complete "full
                            dress" among the rocks of the southern shore. A dead armadillo
                            of extraordinary dimensions was found near the foot of the slope. It was
                            at least thrice the size of the common South American mammal. The same
                            could be said of the single iguana encountered. This large lizard, which
                            was alive, must have been fully ten feet from head to tail, and gave
                            rise to the belief that the supposedly extinct iguanodon, described by
                            the scientists as attaining a length of thirty feet, might any day be
                            discovered in the fastnesses of this unexplored land. The mere existence
                            of this rather amiable, unfrightened monster was of the greatest
                            significance. If it were known to man, why had it never been reported in
                            zoological or natural history journals?
                        8. The trees on the mountain-side were thick and stunted, with
                            interlocking limbs that created a sort of endless canopy which the sun
                            was unable to penetrate. The cool, dry wind that swept the slope would
                            account, however, for the surprising absence of moisture in soil and
                            vegetation in the dense shade of the trees. Oak, elm, spruce, even
                            walnut, and other trees of a sturdy character indigenous to the
                            temperate zone were identified. What appeared to be a clump of cypress
                            trees, fantastic, misshapen objects that seemed to shrink back in terror
                            from the assaulting breakers, stood out in bold relief upon a rocky
                            point to the south and west of the observation hill. Their gaunt,
                            twisted trunks  leaned backward from the
                            sea; their shorn limbs, racked by gales, were raised as if in
                            supplication to the sombre forest behind them. Trunks of enormous trees
                            that had fallen perhaps a century ago were found half-buried in the
                            earth, while scattered along the northern base of the range, overlooking
                            the downs, a few of their gigantic counterparts, alive and flourishing,
                            raised their lofty heads far above the surrounding forest, and stood
                            like sentinels, guarding the plain.
                        9. A small river wound its devious way, with serpentine crooks and
                            curves, through the downs and across the meadow, emptying into the ocean
                            some distance east of the gleaming beach. That its source was far up in
                            the secretive hills was not a matter of conjecture, however; the
                            incessant hiss and roar of a cataract was plainly heard by the
                            investigators.
                        Here is the crude, hastily sketched map of the island as made by
                            Percival:
                        
                        
                            1. Position of stranded vessel in basin.
                            2. Entrance to channel from the north.
                            3. Entrance to channel from the south.
                            4. Narrow strip of woodland from channel almost to
                                river's mouth.
                            5. Strip of meadow-land clear of trees.
                            6. River.
                            7. Stretch of lowland leading down to the water.
                            8. Crest of hill from which observations were taken with range
                                extending east and west.
                            9. Point of rocks with cypress trees.
                            10. Buttress-like west end of island.
                            11. Dense forest reaching to channel.
                            12. Rocky cape.
                            13. Level plateau, without trees.
                            14. Beach.
                            15. Penguins.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER X
                        AFTER the second reading of the foregoing report, the first being in
                            English, Percival requested his fellow explorers to verify the
                            statements contained therein. This they did promptly. He then went on:
                        "I am delegated by Captain Trigger and the officers of this
                            vessel, after a conference just concluded, and of which you are all well
                            aware, to put before you as briefly and as clearly as possible the
                            decision that has been reached. I may as well confess in the beginning
                            that this decision is based on the recommendations of the party who went
                            to the top of the mountain. It is out of the question for the people on
                            board this vessel to go ashore until further investigations have been
                            made. For the present, we are all safe here on board the ship. We
                            don't know what perils exist in the absolutely unexplored
                            country that surrounds us. Additional parties are to be sent out to
                            explore the island, especially the eastern section of it. There is no
                            use mincing matters. We are confronted by a very plain situation. It is
                            possible, even probable, that we are the first human beings ever to set
                            foot on this land. If that be true, we are now so far out of the path of
                            the few ships and steamers sailing these southern seas that there is
                            small hope or chance of a speedy rescue. As a matter of fact, it
                            isn't likely that we will be discovered until
                            the island itself is discovered, if you see what I
                            mean.
                        
                        "There isn't the slightest chance that the ship
                            we're now standing on will ever float again. Even if the
                            engines could be put in order, and that is possible, I
                            am told, the vessel cannot be raised. If anybody has been nursing that
                            sort of hope, he may as well get rid of it. It's no good. We
                            are here to stay, unless help comes from the outside. There's
                            the plain English of it. We may have to live here on this island, like
                            poor old Robinson Crusoe, for years, for a great many years.
                            I'm going to stop just a few seconds to let that soak into your
                            brains. We've got to face it. We've got to make the
                            best of it. It is not for Captain Trigger or me or any one else to say
                            that we will not be taken off this island some time maybe sooner than we
                            think. Whaling vessels must visit these parts. That's neither
                            here nor there. We've got our work cut out for us, friends.
                            We've got to think of the present and let the future take care
                            of itself. Now, here are the facts. We cannot remain on board this
                            wreck. We've got to go to work, every man, woman and child of
                            us. I don't know what can be cultivated on this island, but
                            we've got to find out, and when we find out we've got
                            to begin raising it. If we don't, my friends, we'll
                            starve to death in a very short time. And what's more, if we do
                            not get out there and put up houses to live in, we'll freeze to
                            death when winter comes along.
                        "According to calculations, winter is still five or six months
                            away. We won't get it, I dare say, before next April or May.
                            All you have to do is to take a look at all these trees around here to
                            realize that we are a long way from the tropics. It gets as cold as
                            blazes here in the dead of winter, I can tell you that. We've
                            got to build homes. We've got to build a camp, not a flimsy,
                            half-way sort of camp, but a good,  solid,
                            substantial one, my friends. There is what you might call a minority
                            report in regard to the situation. Captain Trigger asked me to speak for
                            him and others who look at it as I do. Mr. Landover, who is, I
                            understand, one of the leading bankers in the United States of America,
                            contends that we are well enough off as we are, on board the Doraine, where we've got cabins and beds and
                            shelter from the elements. He may be right. All I have to say to him is
                            this, I don't believe I mentioned it at this conference, Mr.
                            Landover, simply because I'm one of those unhappy individuals
                            who always think of the brilliant things I might have said when
                            it's too late to say them, all I have to say is this: if Mr.
                            Landover and his supporters expect to sit snugly on this ship while the
                            rest of us build houses and plant crops, and then conclude to come out
                            and bone the rest of us for a square meal and a nice warm place to
                            sleep, they are going to be badly fooled. We're all equal here.
                            A couple of million dollars, more or less, doesn't cut any ice
                            on this little island. What counts here is muscle and commonsense and a
                            willingness to use both.
                        "A little while ago I asked Mr. Landover how much money he has
                            with him. He informed me that while it wasn't any of my
                            business, he has about five hundred dollars in American money and a
                            couple of hundred pesos besides, but that his letter of credit is still
                            good for fifteen thousand. Mr. Nicklestick has about five hundred
                            dollars in money, and so has Mr. Block and one or two others.
                            They've all got letters of credit, express cheeks, and so
                            forth, and I suppose there is a wheelbarrow full of jewellery on board
                            this ship. Now, if money is to talk down here, I wish to state that the
                            men and women from the steerage have  got
                            more real dough than all the first and second cabins put together. They
                            haven't any letters of credit or bank accounts in New York, but
                            there are a dozen men in the steerage who have as much as two or three
                            thousand pesos sewed up inside their clothes. So far as I can make out,
                            the only people who can afford to hire anybody to
                            build a hut for them, and pay for it in real money, are the plutocrats
                            from the steerage.
                        "Mr. Landover's letter of credit is good for fifteen
                            thousand if he ever gets back to New York, but it isn't worth
                            fifteen cents here. His life is insured for one million dollars, I am
                            told. I don't know who the beneficiaries are, but, whoever they
                            are, they are going to put in a claim for the million if he
                            doesn't show up in New York pretty shortly. He is going to be
                            declared officially dead, and so are all the rest of us, after a
                            reasonable time has elapsed. Now, I don't say that we are never
                            going to be rescued. We may be found inside of a month. Some of us
                            don't quite realize the fix we are in. Mr. Codge, the purser,
                            was saying a little while ago that a lady from the first cabin nearly
                            took his head off when he told her it was impossible to send a cable
                            message to her people in Boston. A number of passengers have already
                            demanded that their passage money be refunded.
                        "You have doubtless heard how I came to be on board this
                            steamer. I am a stowaway. I have no standing among you. I
                            haven't a penny in my pocket, aside from a luck-piece that
                            doesn't belong to me. I wanted to get back to the States so
                            that I could carry a gun or something over in France. I wanted to fight
                            for my country. I wasn't thinking very much about my life when
                            I started for home and France, but  I want
                            to say that I'm thinking about it now. I don't intend
                            to starve or freeze to death if I can help it. I am going to fight for
                            my life, not for my country.
                        "This is no time to be sentimental. It is no time to sit down
                            and pity ourselves or each other. God knows I am just as sorry for
                            myself as you are for yourselves, but that isn't going to get
                            me anywhere. We've got to work. That means all of us. It means
                            the women as well as the men. It means the women with soft, white hands
                            and the men who never did a stroke of manual labour in their lives, just
                            as much as it means the people who have never done anything else but
                            work. Something will be found for every one of us to do, and, ladies and
                            gentlemen, we will have to do it without whining.
                        "Captain Trigger is accountable for the cargo on board this
                            ship. Naturally he is opposed to our confiscating anything that has been
                            entrusted to him for safe delivery. He takes a very sensible attitude,
                            however. He will officially protest against the removal of anything from
                            the hold of his vessel, but he will not employ force to resist us when
                            we begin to land stores, foodstuffs and all that sort of thing. He
                            understands the situation perfectly.
                        "Now, here is what we will have to do. We must select a site for
                            our camp, or town, you may well say, and we must build upon it without
                            delay. That is to be our first step. Details will come later. There are
                            over six hundred of us here. We represent a fair-sized village. We have
                            mechanics, carpenters, farmers, surveyors, masons, and merchants, to say
                            nothing of cooks, housekeepers, and so on. The ship contains all sorts
                            of tools to work with, canvas for temporary quarters, beds and bedding,
                            cooking utensils,  in fact, we have
                            everything that Robinson Crusoe didn't have, and besides all
                            that, we've got each other. We are not alone on a desert
                            island. We are, my friends, as well off as the Pilgrims who landed on
                            Plymouth Rock, and we are better off than the hardy colonists who laid
                            the foundation for the country that flies that flag up there. Centuries
                            ago bold adventurers set out to discover unknown lands. They were few in
                            number and poorly equipped. But they ventured into the wilderness and
                            built villages that grew to be cities. They went through a thousand
                            hardships that we will never know, and they survived.
                        "Captain Trigger and the others selected me to make this talk to
                            you because I have had some practical experience in establishing and
                            developing a camp, such as we will have to build. Experience has taught
                            me one thing above all others: work, hard work of a constructive nature,
                            is our only salvation. Unless we occupy ourselves from one
                            day's end to another in good, hard, honest toil, we will all go
                            mad. That's the long and the short of it. If we sat still on
                            this boat for thirty days, doing nothing, we'd lose our minds.
                            There isn't a man in this crowd, I am sure, who
                            wouldn't work his head off to spare the women an hour of
                            hardship. But the greatest hardship you women could possibly know would
                            be idleness. There will be work for every one to do, and we can thank
                            God for it, my friends. We will have to work for nothing. We will have
                            to help each other. There is but one class on this island at present,
                            and that is the working class.
                        "We've all got people at home waiting for us. By this
                            time the whole world knows that the Doraine is three
                            weeks overdue at Rio Janeiro, and that no word has been had from her.
                            The ocean is being searched.  Our friends,
                            our relatives are doing everything in their power to get trace of this
                            lost ship. You may depend on that. In a little while, a few weeks, at
                            best, the ship will be given up for lost. We will be counted as dead,
                            all of us. That's a hard, cruel thing for me to say, and I hate
                            to say it, but we've just got to realize the
                            position we're in. It's best that we should look at it
                            from the worst possible angle. I do not speak jestingly when I say that
                            we may as well consider ourselves dead and forgotten. I am as full of
                            hope and confidence as anybody and I am an optimist if there ever was
                            one, but I don't work on the theory that God takes any better
                            care of an optimist than He does of a pessimist.
                        "It will require months, maybe years, for us to construct a
                            ship, and even then it will not be big enough to transport all of us.
                            The most we can hope for is a craft that will be stout enough to go out
                            and bring help to the rest of us. I am trying, at Captain
                            Trigger's suggestion, to convince you that we can't
                            build a ship, that we can't expect to get away from this island
                            by our own endeavours, unless we go about it in the proper and sensible
                            way. That means, first of all, that we must safeguard ourselves against
                            time. We've got to live and we've got to keep our
                            strength.
                        "Mr. Landover has made a very generous proposition. He agrees to
                            give a hundred thousand dollars to any boat's crew that will
                            take one of these lifeboats and make port somewhere. He fails to mention
                            the compensation they are to receive if they never
                            make port. He forgets that this big ship floundered around for a good
                            many days without sighting anything but water. He would have been
                            perfectly safe in offering a hundred million dollars, because he would
                            never be  called upon to pay it. I
                            understand, however, that his offer still stands.
                        "Tomorrow morning surveying parties will be sent ashore to look
                            for a possible site for our town. Volunteers will undertake this work.
                            As soon as possible thereafter a temporary camp will be set up, and
                            practically every one on board will be moved from this ship. Captain
                            Trigger and a few chosen men will remain on board. It is his wish,
                            ladies and gentlemen. He is the captain of the Doraine. He will not leave her. We are all here today, and alive,
                            because Captain Trigger would not leave his ship. We owe our lives to
                            him. This is not the time to propose three cheers for the gallant master
                            of the Doraine. It is not the time to cheer for
                            anybody or for anything. We do not feel like cheering. We've
                            done all the praying that is necessary, we've offered up all
                            the thanksgiving that the situation calls for, so now we've got
                            to roll up our sleeves and go to work."
                        He stepped down from the gun-platform. There were no cheers. Every voice
                            was stilled, every face was set. Many seconds passed before there was
                            even the slightest stir among those who had listened so intently.
                        Then the few English-speaking people from the steerage began to whisper
                            hoarsely to their bewildered companions.
                    
                
                
                
                    BOOK TWO
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER I
                        THE warm, summer season was well-advanced in this far southern land
                            before the strenuous, tireless efforts of the marooned settlers began to
                            show definite results.
                        Some six weeks after the stranding of the Doraine,
                            staunch log cabins were in course of completion along the base of the
                            hills overlooking the clear, rolling meadow-land to the north and east.
                            Down in the low-lands scores of men were employed in sowing and
                            planting. The soil was rich. Farmers and grain-raisers among the
                            passengers were unanimously of the opinion that almost any vegetable,
                            cereal or fruit indigenous to Argentina (or at the worst, Patagonia),
                            could be produced here. Uncertainty as to the duration of the warm
                            period, so vital to the growing and maturing of crops, was the chief
                            problem. No time was to be lost if there were to be harvests before the
                            cold and blighting weather set in.
                        It was extremely doubtful if the spring and summer seasons combined
                            covered more than five months in this latitude. Assuming that the
                            climate in this open part of the world was anything like that of the
                            Falkland Islands, the rainy season was overdue. Midwinter usually comes
                            in July, with the temperature averaging between 35 and 10 above zero
                            over a period of four or five months. At the time of the wreck, the
                            thermometers were registering about 70 during the day, and dropping to
                            50 or thereabouts after nightfall. This would indicate that spring was
                            fairly well-advanced,  and that midsummer
                            might be figured on as coming in January. It was now the end of
                            November. Warm weather probably would last until February or March.
                            Possibly they would be too late with their planting, but they went about
                            it speedily, determinedly, just the same.
                        All of them had had crop failures before. All of them had seen the labour
                            of months go for naught in the blight of an evening's frost, or
                            the sweep of a prairie fire. So here on this virgin isle, in soil whose
                            sod had never been turned, they sowed from the bins of the slumbering
                            ship. Wheat and oats and flax, brought from the Argentina plains;
                            potatoes, squash and beet-root; even beans and peas were tried, but with
                            small hope. And there were women ready to till the soil and work the
                            gardens, women to draw the strangely fashioned ploughshares as willing
                            beasts of burden, to wield the hoe and spade, and to watch for the
                            cherished sprout that was to glorify their deeds.
                        The ring of the ax resounded in the forest; the clangour of hammer and
                            nail, the rasp of the saw, the clatter of timber went on from dawn to
                            dusk, for there was no eight-hour law in this smiling land, nor was
                            there any other union save that of staunch endeavour, no other
                            Brotherhood except that of Man. There was never a question of wage,
                            never a dispute as to hours, never a thought of strike. Every labourer
                            was worthy of his hire, and his hire was food!
                        The Doraine was gradually being dismantled. She was
                            being stripped of every bit of material that could be used in
                            constructing and furnishing the huts. The new camp lay not more than a
                            mile and a half from the basin. A road had been cleared through the wood
                                 from the small, hastily constructed
                            dock and runway on the eastern side of the basin to the open territory
                            beyond.
                        Material, supplies, equipment were carried through the densely shaded
                            avenue, and later on, after the ware-houses and granaries had been
                            built, the leafy lane witnessed the transportation of ton upon ton of
                            stores, patiently borne in hundredweight lots, in bushel bags, in clumsy
                            parcels, by men whose work seemed endless; wheat, barley, oats, sugar,
                            coffee and other commodities entrusted to the steamship company for
                            delivery in the United States. Tobacco, canned and refrigerated meats,
                            olives, flour, figs and dates in large quantities were included in the
                            vast cargo, to say nothing of the enormous supply of canned fruits and
                            vegetables. Washed wool, tanned leather, homespun cotton and woollen
                            cloth, silks, hides, furs, rugs, laces, linseed oil, blankets, all these
                            came ashore in course of time, but of the sinister treasure that had
                            inspired the destruction of the ship, i.e., the manganese, the rubber,
                            the nitrates, the copper bars, and the stacks of high explosives, not a
                            pound was moved. All this was left for another and more leisurely day.
                        In the end, the once luxurious liner was to be reduced to "skin
                            and bones," to employ a trite but eminently appropriate phrase.
                            Ultimately she became a black, unlovely skeleton, bereft of every
                            vestige of her former opulence. Her decks were torn up and the timbers
                            hauled away to make floors in the huts; the doors, mirrors, stairways,
                            windows, rails, carpets, pipes, bathtubs, toilets, lamps, every foot of
                            woodwork from stem to stern, berths, washbasins, kitchen ranges,
                            boilers, in fact, everything that man could make use of was  taken from the ship, leaving nothing of
                            her but a hollow, echoing shell through which the wind howled or moaned
                            a ghostly requiem.
                        Much of this material was carefully stacked or stored away against the
                            day when it could be utilized in the construction of a small but sturdy
                            ship, in which a chosen company of sailors were to fare out to sea once
                            more in search of the world they had lost.
                        Tireless and indomitable engineers later on succeeded in transferring
                            portions of the damaged machinery, including dynamos, to the camp, where
                            in course of time their skill and ingenuity bade fair to triumph over
                            seemingly insurmountable difficulties in the matter of restoration.
                        Fully six weeks elapsed, however, before the women were allowed to leave
                            the ship for their new homes on the land, and even then they came but a
                            few at a time and only as huts were ready and fully equipped to receive
                            them. Each hut contained a combination kitchen and living-room, with a
                            single bedchamber. A substantial fireplace, built of stone and mortar,
                            with a tall chimney at the back, was a feature in every house. The
                            cracks between the logs, and all chinks, were sealed with thick layers
                            of mortar; the ceilings, made of stout saplings, were treated in a
                            similar manner, while the roof, resting on a sturdy ridge-pole, and
                            securely anchored, was of three layers of poles, interstices mortared
                            and the whole covered with a vast quantity of seaweed, moss and reeds
                            held in place by several well-fastened sections of iron railing from the
                            decks of the Doraine.
                        
                        While the huts were uniform in size, shape and construction, there was
                            nothing to prevent the occupant from subsequently enlarging and
                            improving his house.  For the present,
                            however, the interests of all were best served by speed and compactness.
                        The superintendent of construction was Algernon Adonis Percival. As a
                            matter of fact, the end of the first week found him occupying the
                            position of General Manager for the whole enterprise, an unsolicited
                            honour but one which he was resolved that no one, great or small, should
                            deride. He had one stormy "run-in," as he described
                            it, with Mr. Landover and his group of satellites. This occurred about
                            the middle of their first week on the island when practically every
                            able-bodied man from the Doraine was at work cutting a
                            way through the forest or in constructing the dock at the
                            water's edge. As the incident is entitled to a very definite
                            place in this narrative, a more or less extended account of it may be
                            given here and now, even at the risk of being classed as a digression,
                            or a step backward in the sequence of the history.
                        Mr. Landover, Mr. Block, Mr. Nicklestick and two or three other men were
                            grouped on the after-deck early one morning decrying the brainless
                            scheme to build a camp out there in the open. Their audience included
                            several women, among them Mrs. Spofford, Ruth Clinton, Madame
                            Careni-Amori, Madame Obosky, Mrs. Block and a couple of loquacious Rio
                            Janeiro ladies.
                        Percival bore down upon this group. He wasted no time in getting to the
                            point.
                        "We've been at work for two days out there, gentlemen,
                            and up to date not one of you has turned to with the rest of us. The
                            understanding was that "
                        Mr. Landover whirled on him, white with anger. "That will
                            do!" he exclaimed. "Clear out! I do not intend to
                            allow any such riff-raff as you to order 
                            me to Oh, pray do not be alarmed, ladies! This rowdy is not likely to
                            assault me. Nothing will happen, I assure you. Clear out, you bum, do
                            you hear me?"
                        Percival was smiling. "I wish you wouldn't interrupt
                            me, Mr. Landover. As I was saying, it was understood that every man on
                            this ship who is well enough to "
                        "Can't you see that there are ladies present?
                            Haven't you an atom of decency about you?"
                        " understood that every man on this ship was to do his share of
                            the work laid out. I owe these ladies an apology for reminding you in
                            their presence that the boats are leaving for shore and that if you do
                            not get off in the next relay you will be compelled to swim to that
                            landing over there, and I doubt very much whether any of you can make
                            it."
                        "Wha-what's that?" demanded Mr. Block.
                        Mr. Landover was speechless. A hard glitter came to Percival's
                            eyes, the smile left his lips.
                        "You heard what I said, Mr. Block. I'll make it
                            plainer, however. If you men don't get into the next boat
                            leaving this ship, I'm going to have you thrown overboard and
                            made to swim to your work. I regret exceedingly,
                            ladies, that I have been obliged to resort to harsh words in your
                            presence, but time is so precious that I can't afford to give
                            them a private audience."
                        "Oh, my goodness gracious!" cried Mrs. Block, twisting
                            her fat hands in an agony of alarm. "Maybe you better go,
                            Moses. You vas nearly drownded twice yet in pool at White
                            Sulphur."
                        "This is the most outrageous, high-handed," began
                            Landover, explosively, but stopped short as Percival levelled his
                            unlovely forefinger at him.
                        
                        "Cut it out, Mr. Landover, cut it out," he snapped,
                            inelegantly. "Now, listen to me. For two days you and these
                            boon companions of yours have been loafing on the job. While the rest of
                            us have been working like dogs, you and your friends, you
                            needn't look insulted, because by the looks of things they are your friends, you've been sitting up here
                            talking to the ladies, smoking cigars, and telling every one how
                            successfully you conduct a bank in New York. Now, Mr. Landover,
                            you're not an old man. If you were, I'd be the first
                            to suggest the easiest sort of work for you. You are under fifty and
                            you're a strong, healthy man. You ride every morning in Central
                            Park, you play golf in winter and summer, and you're one of the
                            men who made Muldoon famous.
                        "You are able to work as the rest of us are working. Your hands
                            are in a much better condition than mine. If we were in New York I would
                            take off my hat to you and admit that you are one of the greatest
                            bankers in the world, and that you know your business. But
                            we're not in New York. We're down here on a lonely
                            island. You know how to build and conduct banks, I know how to build and
                            conduct camps. We have no use for scientific bankers here, but we have
                            considerable use for experienced camp builders. I have been put in
                            charge of this work. I'm going to see it through. Up in the
                            hills I got a full day's work out of my men, and there were
                            worse men among them than you will ever be. There were gunmen, knife
                            flingers, cutthroats and bullies, but they had to work, just the same.
                            Just a minute, if you please. I'm not through. I think I
                            appreciate your position, Mr. Landover.
                        "You regard me as a four-flusher, a tramp, maybe  a thief or worse. I am but little more
                            than half your age and I am a person of absolutely no importance.
                            That's neither here nor there. I have been selected to run this
                            job because Captain Trigger, with Mr. Mott and virtually every other man
                            on this ship, believes that I know how to handle it. But even that's neither here nor there. What
                            I'm coming to is this. As long as I am in charge of this job,
                            every man, woman and child has got to do something.
                            Just at present there isn't much that the women and children
                            can do, but there is work for every man who can stand on his feet. You
                            needn't glare at me. I'm not afraid of you, Mr.
                            Landover. You say you are going to stay on this ship. Well,
                            I've come here to tell you that you are not going to do
                            anything of the sort. The women and children are to remain on board
                            until we've got houses built for them on shore, or until the
                            time comes when there is work for them to do. If they choose to come
                            ashore occasionally it will be to watch the men work and to cheer them
                            up with their presence. But no man is to stay on this ship after
                            we've once got the real job going out there. Now
                            you've heard my statement, sir. I am willing to listen for a
                            few minutes to your side of the question. Don't all speak at
                            once, and please be careful, there are ladies present."
                        While Percival did not take his eyes from Landover's face during
                            this speech, he was aware that Miss Clinton and her aunt had turned
                            abruptly away and were leaning against the rail a few yards distant,
                            their backs to him. Olga Obosky and Careni-Amori were regarding him with
                            shining, approving eyes, while Mrs. Block, gulping furiously, clasped
                            her husband's arm and kept up a constant muttering. Something
                                 told him that Ruth Clinton and Mrs.
                            Spofford had turned against him.
                        "I have nothing to say to you," said Landover, curtly.
                            Turning on his heel, he joined the two ladies at the rail. He spoke a
                            few words to them in a lowered tone, and then the three of them strode
                            off without so much as a glance at the young man.
                        Percival flushed a dull red under his tan. His eyes followed them until
                            they disappeared around a corner. Down in his heart he hoped that Ruth
                            would not deny him a fleeting look of encouragement and approval.
                        Landover carried himself like a soldier. He was tall, well set-up, and
                            almost offensively erect. He was a handsome man of perhaps forty-eight.
                            His cleanshaven face was firm, aggressive, domineering. There was not a
                            trace of grey in his dark hair. He typified strength, mentality,
                            shrewdness and that most essential quality in the standards of wealth
                            and power, arrogance. In a word, he personified Finance.
                        "Now, see here, Percival," began Nicklestick, in a most
                            cavalier manner, greatly encouraged by the lofty conduct of the Money
                            King, "you know you can't do this sort of thing. We
                            won't stand for it, not for a minute. We object to this
                            high-handed business. You got to realize that"
                        "Object and be hanged!" snapped Percival. "The
                            next thing, you'll be calling yourselves conscientious
                            objectors. Well, it's no use, Nicklestick. There's no
                            such animal on board this Ark. I see a couple of boats returning from
                            shore. You've got about fifteen minutes to shed that Stein
                            & Bloch suit and hump into something that will never need
                            pressing again, your working clothes. I'm doing you a kindness.
                            That gang  out there won't stand
                            for slackers. If you're wise you'll take my word for
                            it."
                        He was turning away when Nicklestick intercepted him.
                        "What do you think they would do, Mr. Percival?" he
                            inquired in some agitation. "We are gentlemen. We got a right
                            to decide for ourselves vat ve shall do. We can pay for "
                        "You will find a lot of gentlemen out there who have already
                            decided for themselves, and very cheerfully, too. You will not be
                            lonely. If you desire any further information as to the class of
                            labourers you will come in contact with, Mr. Nicklestick, I would
                            suggest a careful study of the first cabin list, the second cabin list,
                            and finally the third cabin list, if you can find such a thing. You will
                            also run up against some excellent material from the United States Navy,
                            to say nothing of a fine lot of able seamen. They've adopted a
                            common name. Do you know what they call each other?"
                        "No," said Nicklestick, wiping his brow. "Vat
                            vat do they call each other?"
                        "Men," said Percival, and walked away.
                        He was followed closely by Careni-Amori and Olga Obosky, and at some
                            distance by the whispering, gesticulating Jews. The great soprano was
                            profoundly agitated. Obosky, a pace or two behind her, was tense and
                            silent. Her head was slightly bent. There was a strange, dog-like
                            expression in her eyes as they regarded the back of Percival's
                            head.
                        "But what will you do?" Careni-Amori was crying, as she
                            clutched his arm. "He is a great man. He is a millionaire. He
                            owns part of this steamship line, so he have inform me. You will not
                            throw him into the water, yes?"
                        
                        "As sure as you are a foot high, Madame Careni-Amori,"
                            said he, grimly.
                        "Oh, mon Dieu! You hear him, Obosky? He means what he have
                            say."
                        "Be careful, my friend," said Obosky, drawing alongside
                            of Percival. "Do you not see how the wind blows?"
                        "What do you mean?"
                        "Have you count the cost of victory? You may lose more than you
                            will gain."
                        Percival looked at her intently for a moment; then, in a flash, the
                            meaning of her words was revealed to him.
                        "Even so, Madame Obosky," he returned, his jaw setting,
                            "I am a good loser."
                        "The spoils do not always go to the victor," she warned
                            him.
                        "I still have your luck-piece," said he, smiling as he
                            slapped his trousers-leg.
                        "It has always brought me luck," she said, looking
                            straight into his eyes. "It may continue to do so, who knows?
                            Alas for you, my friend, you may yet have to turn to me for consolation.
                            It is the ill-wind that blows nobody good. Am I not shocking, Mr.
                            Percivail?"
                        They had lost Madame Careni-Amori, who was behind them, shrieking a
                            command through a port-hole to her maid.
                        He looked at her in amazement. "I don't know what to
                            think of you, Madame Obosky." Then he grinned. "Good
                            Lord! You you can't be making me an offer of
                            marriage?"
                        "Heaven forbid!" she cried. "I have had all I
                            want of marriage, my friend. You will never catch me  doing anything so foolish as that again.
                            No, no! I do not desire to marry you, Mr. Percivail. Nothing so dreadful
                            as that! Suppose we would be married, what zen? Poof! Because I am an
                            honest woman I would have to tell you some time zat I have had ze honour
                            to be once the mistress of a Crown Prince, and then you would hold up
                            your holy hands and cry out, 'My God, what kind of a woman is
                            this I have marry?' and Oh, but I would not tell you about zat
                            Crown Prince until we have been married a year or two, so do not look so
                            pleased! In a year you would be hating me so much zat you would rejoice
                            to hear about the Crown Prince, and I would be loathing you so much zat
                            I would probably have to kill you, because I do not believe in divorce
                            any more than I believe in marriage. You see? Most women hate their
                            husbands. They never hate their lovers. It is so difficult to get rid of
                            the one, and so easy to keep the other, zat is the explanation. So! Now
                            you may know zat love is the humblest thing in the world, and passion
                            the noblest, for love is for the weak while passion is for the strong.
                            Love is easily deceived, passion never. Love endures, passion conquers.
                            Love is blind, passion is sight itself. Love rules the world, but
                            passion rules love. Love consents, passion demands. Love is law, passion
                            is life. I could go on for ever, but I see you do not like my discourse.
                            Zat is because you are already in love, my friend. Poof! You will get
                            over that!" She laughed.
                        Percival was white clear through. He was red-blooded, but at the same
                            time his heart was clean. Once more he found himself contrasting the
                            honesteyed, pure-hearted Ruth with this sensual scoffer. There was no
                            denying the physical appeal of the lithe, 
                            sinuous Russian, there was no gainsaying the call of the blood. On the
                            other hand, the American girl stood for everything his own mother
                            exemplified in flesh and spirit.
                        As it is with all men, he was absolutely incapable of associating passion
                            with the mother who bore him, or with sisters who marry and give them
                            nieces and nephews to adore. It was impossible, utterly impossible that
                            they should have possessed the instincts of this woman beside him. But
                            even as the thought raced through his mind he experienced the sudden,
                            almost staggering realization that after all the chief, probably the
                            only difference between his women and Olga Obosky was
                            that they were good!
                        
                        "Do you want me to tell you what I think of you?" he
                            inquired, his eyes hardening.
                        "Yes," she said calmly. "But not now. When you
                            have more time, my friend. I shall be very much interested to hear what
                            you think of me. In the meantime, I am troubled for you. You are in love
                            with her, oh, yes, you are, and I am very much afraid zat you will lose
                            her if you are not careful. I am your friend. Be warned in time, Mr.
                            Percivail. She is sorry for him. Landover. You have humiliated him
                            before all of us. He is the friend of her family. Go slow, my friend, or
                            she will turn against you and you will lose her. You have still a good
                            chance. She is more nearly in love with you than she suspects. A little
                            good judgment on your part, my friend, and you will win. She will marry
                            you, and when she have done so, zen you may with impunity toss Mr.
                            Landover in the sea, but not now, my friend, not now."
                        "By Jove, you've got me guessing, Madame
                            Obosky,"  he exclaimed, frankly
                            puzzled. "I can't make you out at all."
                        She shrugged her shoulders.
                        "Zat is because I am a thousand years old and very, oh, so very
                            wise, Mr. Percivail," she returned, with a smile. "Au
                            revoir!"
                        Percival went straight to Captain Trigger.
                        "See here, Captain," he said at once,
                            "I'm up against it with Landover. He refuses to take
                            orders from me. I don't want to do anything drastic without
                            consulting you. If you say I'm to let him off, that's
                            the end of it so far as I'm concerned. Of course, I
                            can't answer for the rest of the crowd. But if you say I am to
                            go ahead along the line originally laid out, I'll do
                            it."
                        Captain Trigger's eyes, red from loss of sleep, pinched with
                            anxiety, rested for a few seconds on the three boats coming across the
                            basin. Then he turned to the young man.
                        "Mr. Landover is one of the owners of this steamship line,
                            Percival."
                        "So I understand, sir."
                        "He notified me this morning that he will see that I am
                            dismissed from the service if I continue to support this silly, suicidal
                            plan to build a camp on shore."
                        "Yes, sir. And you?"
                        "I promptly tendered my resignation as master of this
                            vessel," answered the Captain.
                        "You did?" cried Percival, dismayed.
                        "To take effect when I have tied her safely up to her pier in
                            New York," said the old man, striking the rail with his fist.
                        "Great!" cried Percival.
                        "He has just come to me with the complaint that  you have threatened to throw him
                            overboard. Is that true, Percival?"
                        "Yes, sir, in a way. I mentioned an alternative."
                        "Mr. Landover is no better than any of the rest of us. You will
                            proceed to throw him overboard, Percival, if he refuses to do his share
                            of the work."
                        Percival gulped, and then saluted.
                        "Orders, sir?"
                        "Orders!"
                        The young man started away, but the Captain called him back.
                        "What are you going to do after you have had him thrown into the
                            water?"
                        "Why, dammit all," exclaimed Percival, "what
                                can I do but jump in and save his life? You
                            don't suppose I'd let him drown, do you? And, God
                            knows, nobody else would save it. They want to tar and feather him, as
                            it is, or lynch him, or make him walk the plank."
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II
                        THE first of the two boats came alongside, and men began to go clumsily,
                            even fearfully down the ladders. Throughout the early stages of activity
                            on shore, the passengers and crew went out in shifts, so to speak.
                            Percival and others experienced in construction work had learned that
                            efficiency and accomplishment depend entirely upon the concentration of
                            force, and so, instead of piling hundreds of futile men on shore to
                            create confusion, they adopted the plan of sending out daily detachments
                            of fifty or sixty, to work in regular rotation until all available man
                            power had been broken in and classified according to fitness and
                            strength. For example, certain men developed into capable wood-choppers,
                            while others were useless in that capacity. Each successive draft,
                            therefore, had its choppers, its strippers, its haulers, its
                            "handy men," and its water-boys. Moreover, this
                            systematic replacement of toilers made it possible for those who were
                            not accustomed to hard, manual labour to recover from the unusual tax on
                            strength and endurance.
                        It should be explained, however, that this system was not applied to
                            individuals selected for the purpose of exploration and research. Four
                            parties, well-armed and equipped, were sent out to explore both sections
                            of the island. These expeditions had numerous objects in view: to
                            determine, if possible, whether the island had ever been visited or
                            occupied by man; to determine the character of the fruits and
                            vegetables; extent and variety  of animal
                            life; the natural food resources, etc. The groups were made up of men
                            familiar with nature in the rough. Lieutenant Platt headed one group,
                            Professor Flattner another, a Bolivian ranchman and an English horse
                            buyer the remaining two.
                        Abel Landover was to have gone out with the first day's shift to
                            work on the road through the wood. He refused point-blank to leave the
                            ship. This state of affairs lasted through the next two days, the banker
                            stubbornly ignoring the advice and finally the commands of Captain
                            Trigger. In the meantime he had been joined in his rebellion, a word
                            used here for want of a milder one, by half a dozen gentlemen who did a
                            great deal of talking about how the Turks were maltreating the
                            Armenians, but, for fear of being suspected of pro-Germanism, studiously
                            avoided pre-war dissertations on the conduct of the Russians.
                        The first shift's turn had come around once more in the natural
                            order of things, and practically all of the men had been landed.
                            Landover had refused to go out with either of the other shifts. He had
                            stood his ground obstinately. Percival's ultimatum, sweeping
                            like wildfire throughout the ship's company, brought nearly
                            every one on board to the rails to see whether he would carry out his
                            threat. Would he dare throw the great capitalist, this mighty Croesus,
                            this autocrat, into the sea?
                        The first boat carried off Nicklestick, Block, Shine and the other
                            objectors. Landover was in his state-room.
                        "Just a minute," called out Percival to the oarsmen, as
                            they waited for him to take his place in the last boat.
                            "We're shy a man, I see." His eye ranged the
                            deck. His face was a sickly yellow. It would  have been white save for the tan. "Where is
                            Landover?" he demanded of the crowd.
                        Some one answered: "He went to his cabin a couple of minutes
                            ago," and another volunteered: "It's Number 9
                            on the promenade deck."
                        Half a minute later Percival rapped peremptorily on the door of Number 9.
                        "We're waiting for you, Mr. Landover," he
                            called out.
                        "Wait and be damned," came strongly from the stateroom.
                            "The door is unlocked. If you put a foot inside this room,
                            I'll shoot you like a dog."
                        "You will have the satisfaction of killing a mighty good
                            dog," said Percival, and threw the door wide open. He did not
                            enter the room, however. Standing just outside the door, he faced the
                            banker. Landover stood in the centre of the luxurious cabin, a revolver
                            in his hand.
                        "I mean exactly what I say, Percival. I will shoot the instant
                            you put a foot through that door."
                        "I don't believe you would," said Percival,
                            "but, just the same, I'm not going to chance it. If I
                            ever conclude to commit suicide, I'll go off somewhere and blow
                            my brains out with my own gun. At present, I have no thought of
                            committing suicide, so I'll stay right where I am. I
                            didn't come here to kill you, Mr. Landover. I have no gun with
                            me. I simply came to tell you that the last boat is leaving, and we are
                            waiting for you."
                        For many seconds the two men looked straight into each other's
                            eyes.
                        "Are you coming?" demanded the young man levelly.
                        "Certainly not!"
                        
                        Percival's shoulders sagged. His face wore an expression of
                            complete surrender.
                        "Well, if you won't, I suppose you
                            won't," he muttered.
                        A triumphant sneer greeted this abject back-down on the part of the
                            would-be dictator.
                        "I thought so," exclaimed Landover.
                            "You're yellow. You can bully these poor,
                            ignorant"
                        He never finished the sentence. Percival cleared the eight or nine feet
                            of intervening space with the lunge of a panther. His solid, compact
                            body struck Landover with the force of a battering ram. Before the
                            larger and heavier man could fire a shot, his wrist was caught in a grip
                            of steel. As he staggered back under the impact, Percival's
                            right fore-arm was jammed up under his chin. In the fraction of a
                            second, Landover, unable to withstand this sudden, savage onslaught,
                            toppled over backwards and, with his assailant clinging to him like a
                            wildcat, found himself pinned down to the spacious, inset washstand.
                        The revolver was discharged, the bullet burying itself in the floor. An
                            instant later the weapon fell from his paralysed fingers. With his free
                            left hand he struck wildly, frantically at Percival, but with no effect.
                            The broad back and shoulders of his assailant proved a barrier he could
                            not drive past. And that rigid, merciless right arm, as hard as a bar of
                            steel, was pressing relentlessly against his throat, crushing, choking
                            the life out of him. He was a strong, vigorous man, but he was helpless
                            in the grasp of this tigerish young fighter from the slopes of the
                            Andes. He heard Percival's voice, panting in his ear.
                        "I can keep this up longer than you can. I don't want
                            to break your neck, do you understand? I 
                            don't want to break your neck, Landover, but if you
                            don't give in, I'll I'll " The
                            pressure slackened perceptibly. "Say it! Now's your
                            chance. Say you've got enough!"
                        Landover managed to gasp out the word. He could still feel his eyes
                            starting from his head, his tongue seemed to fill his mouth completely.
                        Percival released him instantly and fell back a yard or so, ready,
                            however, to spring upon his man again at the first sign of treachery. No
                            more than sixty seconds elapsed between the beginning and the end of the
                            encounter. It was all over in the twinkling of an eye, so to speak. In
                            fact, it was over so quickly that the first man to reach the door after
                            the report of the revolver rang out, found the two men facing each
                            other, one coughing and clutching at his throat, the other erect and
                            menacing. For the first time, Percival took his eyes from the purplish
                            face of the banker. They fell first upon a head and pair of shoulders
                            that blocked one of the two port-holes. He recognized the countenance of
                            Soapy Shay, the thief. To his amazement, Soapy grinned and then winked
                            at him!
                        "The boat is ready to leave, Landover," said the victor
                            briskly. "We have no more use for this thing at
                            present," he went on, shoving the revolver under the berth with
                            the toe of his boot. The banker stared past him at the agitated group in
                            the corridor. The man was trembling like a leaf, not so much from fear
                            as from the effects of the tremendous physical shock.
                        Percival was a generous foe. He experienced a sudden pity, a rush of
                            consideration for the other's feelings. He saw the tears of
                            rage and mortification well up in the eyes of the banker, he heard the
                            half-suppressed  sob that broke from his
                            lips. Whirling, he ordered the crowd away from the door.
                            "It's all right," he said. "Please
                            leave us." He addressed Soapy Shay. "Beat it,
                            you!"
                        Soapy saluted with mock servility. "Aye, aye, sir. I saw the
                            whole show. It was certainly worth the price of admission."
                            Having delivered himself of that graceful acknowledgment, he effaced
                            himself.
                        "Just a word or two, Mr. Landover," said Percival as
                            the crowd shuffled away from the door. "I am sorry this had to
                            happen. Even now I am not sure that you fully understand the situation.
                            You may still be inclined to resist. You are not in the habit of
                            submitting to force, reason or justice. I am only asking you, however,
                            to recognize the last of these. You will be happier in the end. I
                            don't give a hang how much you hate me, nor how far you may go
                            to depose me. I don't want your friendship any more than I want
                            your enmity. I can get along very nicely without either. But that
                            isn't the point. At present I am in charge of a gang of
                            workmen. Every man on this ship belongs to that gang, you with the rest.
                            I ask you to look at the matter fairly, honestly, open-mindedly. You
                            accuse me of being high-handed. I return the charge. It's you
                            who are high-handed. You set yourself above your fellow-unfortunates.
                            You refuse to abide by the will of the majority. I represent the
                            majority. I am not acting for myself, but for them. God knows, I am not
                            looking for trouble. This job isn't one that I would have
                            chosen voluntarily. But now that it has been thrust upon me, I have no
                            other alternative than to see it through. You ought to be man enough,
                            you ought to be fair enough to see it in that light. If conditions  were reversed, Mr. Landover, and you were
                            in my place, I would be the last to oppose you, because I have learned
                            in a very tough school that it pays to live up to the regulations.
                            Everywhere else in the world it is a question of capital and labour.
                            Here it is a question of labour alone. There is no such thing as
                            capital. Socialism is forced upon us, the purest kind of socialism, for
                            even the socialist can't get rich at the expense of his
                            neighbour. But I'm beginning to lecture again. Let's
                            get down to cases. Are you prepared to go out peaceably, I'll
                            not say willingly, and do your share on the job as long as you are
                            physically able?"
                        "I submit to brute force. There is no other course left open to
                            me," said Landover hoarsely.
                        "Very well, then. Come along, we're wasting valuable
                            time here."
                        "I will follow you in a few minutes."
                        "You will come now," said Percival levelly.
                            "You and I, Mr. Landover, are jointly concerned in the
                            establishment of a very definite order of discipline. We represent the
                            two extremes." He stood aside. "Precede me, if you
                            please."
                        After a moment's hesitation, the other lifted his chin and
                            walked past the young man. The corridors were clear. Percival followed
                            close behind. He kept up a glib, one-sided conversation.
                        "You see, there was no other way to handle you. I was obliged to
                            resort to punitive measures. That's always the case when you
                            are dealing with sensible, intelligent, educated men. It is impossible
                            to reason with an intelligent, educated man. He invariably has opinions,
                            ideas, viewpoints of his own. He is mentally equipped to resist any kind
                            of an argument. Take  our United States
                            Senators, our Congressmen, even our Presidents. You can't
                            reason with them. No doubt you've tried it a thousand times,
                            you and the other capitalists. We've all tried it.
                            You've got to hit 'em on the head with some sort of a
                            club or big stick if you want to bring 'em to time. You have to
                            club them to death at the polls, so to speak. Now, you take these wops.
                            They can't argue. They haven't got
                            that sort of intelligence. They're considerably like the common
                            or garden variety of dog. No matter how much you beat them and scold
                            them, you can always get along with them if you feed them and let them
                            see that you're not afraid of them. If they once get an idea
                            that you are afraid of them, well, it's all off. They begin to
                            be sensible right away, and then they form a labour union. And the more
                            sensible and intelligent they become, the easier it is for the labour
                            leaders, the walking delegates, and blood-sucking agitators to make
                            fools of 'em. It's all a matter of leadership, Mr.
                            Landover, as you will admit, any way you look at it. Well, here we
                            are."
                        Landover paused before starting down the ladder to the boat. He turned to
                            address Percival in a loud, clear voice.
                        "You will not long be in a position to browbeat and bully the
                            rest of us, young man. Your reign will be short. I would like my
                            fellow-passengers to know that I have never refused to work with them. I
                            have merely declined to work under an outlaw. Life is as dear to me as
                            it is to any one else on this ship. I am taking this step against my
                            will, rather than subject myself to further indignities and the
                            cruelties you would inflict if I held out against you. I am sorry to
                            deprive you of the spectacular hit you might have made by  throwing me into the sea, a treat which
                            you doubtless led all of these people to expect."
                        He climbed down the ladder and dropped into the boat. As he took his
                            seat, he ran his eye along the line of faces above. Finding the persons
                            he sought, he smiled, shook his head slowly to signify a state of
                            resignation, and then set his flushed, angry face toward the land.
                        Percival, following him, did not look up at the row of faces.
                        Careni-Amori sang that evening in the main saloon. Signor Joseppi, tired
                            and sore after his hard day's work, wept, and after weeping as
                            publicly as possible created a profound sensation by kissing the great
                            prima-donna in full view of the applauding spectators. Then, to cap the
                            climax, he proclaimed in a voice charged with emotion that Madame
                            Careni-Amori never had sung better in all her life! This to an artist
                            who had the rare faculty for knowing when she was off the key, and who
                            knew that she was very badly off on this particular occasion.
                        Percival was standing near the door as Ruth Clinton and her aunt left the
                            saloon on the way to their rooms. He joined them after a
                            moment's hesitation. The two ladies bowed coldly to him. He was
                            the essence of decision. As usual, he went straight to the point.
                        "I can't take back what I did this morning, and I
                            wouldn't if I could," he said, falling in beside Mrs.
                            Spofford. "I know you are displeased with me. Can't we
                            thresh it out now, Mrs. Spofford?"
                        The elder woman raised her chin and stared at him coldly. He shot a
                            glance past her at the girl's face.  There was no encouragement to be found in the calm,
                            unsmiling eyes.
                        "I fail to see precisely why we should thresh anything out with
                            you, Mr. Percival," replied Mrs. Spofford.
                        "It is barely possible that you are not quite clear as to my
                            motives, and therefore unable to gauge my actions."
                        "I understand your motives perfectly, and I approve of them.
                            Your actions are not so acceptable. Good-night, Mr. Percival."
                        He smiled whimsically at Ruth. "My left hand is rather in need
                            of attention, Miss Clinton. I suppose I am so deeply in your bad graces
                            that I may not hope for er the same old kindness?"
                        She stopped short. "Is this a request or a command? Mr.
                            Percival, I will be quite frank with you. Mr. Landover is our friend. I
                            am not, however, defending him in the position he has taken. There is no
                            reason why he should not do his share with the rest of the men. But was
                            it necessary to humiliate him, was it necessary to insult him as you did
                            this morning? He is a distinguished man. He "
                        "Are you coming, Ruth?" demanded Mrs. Spofford,
                            sharply.
                        "In just a moment, Aunt Julia."
                        "You will oblige me by coming with me at once. We have nothing
                            more to say to this young man."
                        "I have asked him a question. I shall wait for his
                            answer."
                        "I will answer it, Miss Clinton, by saying it was necessary," said he steadily. "There are
                            other distinguished men here who are further distinguishing  themselves by toeing the mark without
                            complaint or cavil. Mr. Landover was appealed to on three distinct
                            occasions by Captain Trigger and the committee. He ignored all private
                            appeals and commands. The time had come for a
                            show-down. It was either Landover and his little band of sycophants, or
                            me and the entire company of men on this ship. It may interest you to
                            know that you and Mrs. Spofford are the only two people on board,
                            outside of Mr. Landover's retrievers, who blame me for what I
                            did this morning."
                        "You can hardly expect me to be interested in what other people
                            think of my position, Mr. Percival," she
                            said, raising her eyebrows slightly.
                        "No more, I dare say, than Landover cares what they think of
                            his," was his retort.
                        She lifted her chin. "I am beginning to appreciate Mr.
                            Landover's attitude toward you, Mr. Percival," she
                            said icily.
                        "And to justify it, I suppose," he said dejectedly.
                            "I want your friendship, Miss Clinton, yes, I want a great deal
                            more than your friendship. You may as well know it. I'm not asking for it, I'm just telling you. Please don't go away. I promise not to make
                            myself ridiculous. You have been good to me, you have been wonderful. I
                            I can't bear the thought of losing your friendship or your
                            respect. I just had to bring Landover to time. You may think there was
                            some other way, but I do not. At any rate, it isn't a matter
                            that we can discuss. Some day you may admit that I was right, but I
                            don't believe I will ever see the day when I will admit that I
                            was wrong. Won't can't we be friends?"
                        "I do not believe I can ever feel the same toward you after
                            witnessing what I did this morning," said  she, shaking her head. "You deliberately,
                            intentionally degraded Mr. Landover in the presence of others. Was that
                            the act of a gentleman? No! It was the act of an overbearing, arrogant
                            bully who had nothing to fear. You took advantage of your authority and
                            of the fact that he is so rich and powerful that he is practically
                            without a friend or champion. You knew only too well that ninety-nine
                            per cent of the people on board this ship were behind you in your attack
                            on him because he represents capital! You had nothing
                            to fear. No, Mr. Percival, I don't believe we can be friends. I
                            am sorry."
                        "You heard what Mr. Landover said to me this morning, Miss
                            Clinton," said he, paling. "You heard what he called
                            me. Do you believe these things of me?"
                        She was silent for a moment. "No, I do not," she
                            replied slowly. "I believe that you are all you have
                            represented yourself to be."
                        "Thank you," he said, with gentle dignity. "I
                            am sorry if I have distressed you this evening. Please don't
                            think too harshly of me when I say that I just had to find out how we
                            stand, you and I. Now that I know, I can only promise not to bother you
                            again, and you may rely on my promises. I never break them. Good-night,
                            Miss Clinton."
                        He bowed to Mrs. Spofford, who ignored him, and then to Ruth, a wistful
                            smile struggling to his lips and eyes as he did so. As he turned away,
                            she spoke to him.
                        "You mentioned your hand being bad again. If you would like me
                            to dress it for you, under the circumstances, I will do so."
                        "Ruth!" cried Mrs. Spofford in a shocked voice.
                        
                        He put his left hand behind his back. It was the one with which he had
                            gripped Landover's wrist that morning. The strain had reopened
                            the partially healed wounds.
                        "I injured it this morning in an encounter with your friend,
                            Miss Clinton. I can hardly ask you to dress it. Thank you, just the
                            same."
                        "I know all that happened in Mr. Landover's cabin, but
                            even so, I am ready and willing to do anything in my power to ease the
                            pain you are suffering." She spoke calmly, dispassionately,
                            almost perfunctorily.
                        He shook his head. "I shouldn't have spoken of
                            it," he said. "It isn't so bad that I
                            can't fix it up myself. Good-night."
                        She joined her aunt and they made their way in silence to the
                            latter's stateroom. It was not until after the door was safely
                            locked that Mrs. Spofford delivered herself of the thought that had been
                            in her mind the whole length of the slanting corridor.
                        "I hope he will not take advantage of his position to to bully
                            us to bully you, dearest, he might, you know. He has shown himself to be
                            perfectly capable of it. And we are so defenceless. No one but Abel
                            Landover to look to for help if he, for, of course, no one else would
                            dare oppose this lawless young, oh, you need not smile! He has the power
                            and it is quite plain now that he intends to exercise it. He will brook
                            no interference "
                        "I am not afraid of Mr. Percival, Aunt Julia," said the
                            girl, sitting down wearily on the edge of the berth. "He is a
                            gentleman."
                        "A a gentleman?" gasped Mrs. Spofford. "Good
                            gracious!"
                        "He will not annoy me," said Ruth, absently studying
                                 the tips of her slim, shapely shoes.
                            "Possess your soul in peace. I think I know him."
                        "Are you defending the braggart?"
                        "Not at all! I detest him," cried the girl, springing
                            to her feet, her face crimsoning. "He is perfectly
                            abominable."
                        "I I wouldn't speak quite so loudly, my dear,"
                            cautioned her aunt, glancing at the door uneasily. "It would be
                            like him to listen outside the door, or at any rate, one of his men may
                            have been set to spy upon "
                        "Don't be silly, Aunt Julia. And don't be
                            afraid. Mr. Percival isn't going to make us walk the plank for
                            mutiny, or put us in chains, or outrage us, if that is what you are
                            thinking. Now, go to bed, you old dear, and "
                        "I insist on your staying in my room, Ruth. He is in love with
                            you."
                        "He can be in love with me and still be a gentleman,
                            can't he, Aunt Julia? Don't worry! I shall sleep in my
                            own room. I may even go so far as to leave my door unlocked."
                        "What! And if he should come to "
                        "Ah, I shan't send him word that it's
                            unlocked, dear," scoffed Ruth, finding a malicious enjoyment in
                            her aunt's dismay. "Good-night. Sleep tight! We must
                            sleep while we have the opportunity, you know. Our lazy days will soon
                            be over. He says we've all got to work like, I think he said
                            dogs."
                        "Oh, dear me. I, I wonder what is to become of us?"
                            moaned the wretched lady. "After what he tried to do to Abel
                            Landover, there is no telling to what lengths he may go in By the way,
                            has Mr. Landover reported to Captain Trigger that the fellow attemped to
                            shoot him this morning?"
                        
                        "Of course not, Aunt Julia."
                        "Well, I think it is his duty to do so. Captain Trigger should
                            take drastic means to curb this "
                        "You forget that Mr. Landover maintains that Captain Trigger and
                            all the other officers are like putty in the hands of Mr. Percival. I am
                            beginning to believe it myself. He he has got them all
                            hypnotized."
                        "He hasn't got me
                            hypnotized!" exclaimed Mrs. Spofford.
                        "In any case, he is in the saddle," sighed Ruth.
                        "He deliberately tried to kill Mr. Landover," said the
                            other. "Is nothing to be done about it? We heard the shot,
                            every one heard it. And no one has the courage to say a word about it!
                            What a lot of cowards we are! I don't see why he refuses to let
                            me take the matter up with the Captain. Captain Trigger ought to know
                            the truth."
                        Ruth was silent for a moment or two. "It's hard for me
                            to believe, Aunt Julia, that he would attack a defenceless man with a
                            revolver. It it doesn't seem like him."
                        "But you have Abel Landover's word for it, Ruth. The
                            bullet grazed his head. The coward would have killed him most certainly
                            if he had not succeeded in knocking the pistol out of his hand and
                            overpowering him."
                        "If I did not believe Mr. Landover to be an absolutely truthful,
                            honourable man, I " began Ruth, a little furrow between her
                            eyebrows,"well, I might still believe a little in Mr.
                            Percival."
                        "And what chance had poor Landover with that highwayman, or
                            whatever he is, pointing a revolver at 
                            him through the porthole and threatening to blow his brains out if he
                            did not throw up his hands and let Percival alone?"
                        Olga Obosky bandaged Percival's hand. She intercepted him on his
                            way to Dr. Cullen's cabin.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III
                        DURING the days and weeks that followed, Percival maintained an attitude
                            of rigid but courteous aloofness. Only on occasions when it was
                            necessary to consult with Ruth and her aunt on matters pertaining to the
                            "order of the day" did he relax in the slightest
                            degree from the position he had taken in regard to them.
                        In time, the captious Mrs. Spofford began to resent this studied
                            indifference. She detested him more than ever for not running true to
                            the form she had predicted; her apprehensiveness gave way to irritation.
                            She resented his dignified, pleasant "good mornings";
                            she complained acidly to Ruth about what she was now pleased to describe
                            as "disgusting superciliousness."
                        The truth of the matter was, he failed to take any account whatsoever of
                            Mrs. Spofford in his calculations; he did not even make a pretence of
                            consulting her in matters relating to the common good of the common
                            people, and as she was in the habit of devoting a considerable portion
                            of her time, energy and executive ability to the interests of the common
                            or lower class people, the omission was an insult.
                        Nor was his cause benefited by the unnecessary and uncalled for deference
                            he seemed to feel was due her on account of her age. What had her age to
                            do with it? No one had ever deferred to her age in New York? She was one
                            to be reckoned with, she was accustomed to the deference that
                            hasn't anything at all to do with age. And here she was,
                            shunted to one side, ignored, disregarded, she who had been the brains
                            and inspiration  of a dozen charitable
                            enterprises, to say nothing of war-work and very important activities in
                            opposition to Woman Suffrage!
                        She found little consolation in Landover's contention that the
                            upstart was bound to hang himself if they gave him rope enough, or in
                            Ruth's patient reminder that Percival was getting results, and
                            getting them without bullying anybody.
                        Ruth accepted the situation with a calmness that exasperated her aunt.
                            She announced her intention to obey any order the
                            "boss" might issue, without recrimination, without
                            complaint. And so, when the day came for her to go forth with other
                            women to do her share of the cooking, washing, cleaning, and later on
                            the more interesting task of putting the huts in order for occupancy,
                            she went with a full understanding of what was required of her and
                            without a word of protest. The women with whom she toiled from early
                            morn till sombre dusk draped the land were under the immediate direction
                            of a stewardess of many years' experience, an Englishwoman
                            whose husband, an engineer, had been killed at the time of the
                            explosions.
                        Each night she returned to the ship tired and sore but uncomplaining. Her
                            strong young body stood the test with the hardiest; her spirit was
                            unflinching, her heart in the common cause. For she looked ahead with a
                            clear, far-seeing eye, and saw not one but many winters in this vast,
                            unguarded prison. And she wondered, wondered day and night, what was
                            ahead of her.
                        
                        She was young. The young do not dream of death. They dream of life, and
                            of its fullness. What did fate have in store for her? Sometimes she
                            crimsoned, sometimes she paled as she looked ahead.
                        
                        Bare-armed, her heavy sport skirt caught up with pins, her bonny brown
                            hair loosely coiled, thick golf stockings and sturdy shoes covering her
                            legs and feet, she presented a figure that caused more than one heart to
                            thump, more than one head to turn, more than one pair of eyes to follow
                            her as she went about her work. Her cheeks and throat and breast and
                            arms were browning under the fire of the noonday sun, her eyes glowed
                            with the fervour of enthusiasm; her voice was ever cheerful and her
                            smile, though touchd with the blight that lay upon the soul of all these
                            castaways, was unfailingly bright. And when she returned
                            "home" at night from her wageless day of toil, she
                            slept as she never had slept before.
                        Her aunt worked in what was known as the salvage corps. She was one of
                            the clerks employed in checking out the cargo and other materials seized
                            by the committee of ten, as the leaders in this singular enterprise were
                            called. Captain Trigger having protested against the dismantling of the
                            vessel and the confiscation of its cargo, which was as far as he could
                            go, announced that he would abide by any satisfactory plan to salvage
                            the property. He required an official, documentary report, however, in
                            which every item removed was accounted for, with its condition and value
                            set down and sworn to by responsible persons. The purser, Mr. Codge, and
                            First Officer Mott represented the Captain in this operation, while the
                            consignees were properly taken care of by Michael O'Malley
                            Malone, the lawyer, James K. Jones, the promoter, and Moses Block, the
                            rubber importer. It is unnecessary to deal further with this feature of
                            the situation. Suffice it to say, the transaction, if it may be so
                            denoted, was managed with the utmost regularity and formality.  Elderly men and women were chosen for the
                            clerical work which this rather laborious undertaking entailed.
                        On the crest of the loftiest hill there was established a permanent
                            observation and signal station. Near the top a sort of combination
                            dug-out and shanty was constructed by order of Captain Trigger, and day
                            and night, week in and week out, watches were kept similar to those
                            maintained on board ship.
                        While the entire company, high and low, worked with a zeal that
                            eventually resulted in a state of good-natured though intense rivalry in
                            skill and accomplishment, while they were generally cheerful and
                            courageous, there was a profound lack of gaiety. In the eyes of each and
                            every one of them lay the never-vanishing shadow of anxiety, an eternal
                            unspoken question. The hardest, fiercest faces wore a wistful
                            expression: the broadest smile revealed a touch of sadness. Over all,
                            however, the surpassing spirit of kindness and generosity presided.
                        Calamity had softened the hearts in the same crucible that hardened the
                            hands. The arrogance of the strong mellowed into consideration for the
                            weak; wisdom and culture went hand in hand with ignorance and brawn;
                            malice and rancour left the hearts of the lowly and met half-way the
                            departing insolence of the lofty; fellowship took root and throve in a
                            field rich with good deeds. The heart of man was master here, the brain
                            its humble servant.
                        Landover worked hard, doggedly. To all outward appearances, he had
                            resigned himself to the inevitable. He affected a spirit of camaraderie
                            and good humour that deceived many. Down in his heart, however, he was
                            bitterly rebellious. He despised these people as a  class. In his estimation, all creatures who worked for a
                            living were branded with the obnoxious iron of socialism; he even went
                            so far as to believe that they were, after a fashion, anarchists! His
                            conception of anarchy was rather far-reaching; it took in everything
                            that was contrary to his notion of a satisfactory distribution of
                            wealth. He believed that every man who worked for a wage was at heart an
                            enemy to law and order. He regarded the wage-earner as one whose hand is
                            eternally against the employer, absolutely without honour, justice or
                            reason. The workingman was for self, always for self, and to Landover
                            that was anarchy.
                        The thought that people, men and women, of the lower classes possessed
                            physical and mental qualities similar to those possessed by himself,
                            even in a modified form, was not only repugnant to him but incredible.
                            They had none of the finer emotions, such as love, for instance. He
                            could not conceive of a labouring man loving his wife and children; it
                            wasn't natural! He pictured the home-life of the lower classes
                            as nothing short of indecent; there couldn't
                            be anything fine or noble or enduring in the processes of birth,
                            existence and death as related to them. Nature took its course with
                            them, and society, as represented by the class to which he belonged,
                            provided for the litters they cast upon the world. In a word, Abel
                            Landover's father and grandfather and great-grandfather had
                            been rich men before him.
                        He despised Captain Trigger for the simple reason that that faithful,
                            gallant sailor was an employ of the company in which he was a director.
                            It meant nothing to him that Captain Trigger came of fine, hardy,
                            valiant stock; it meant less to him that he was  a law unto himself aboard the Doraine.
                            For, when all was said and done, Captain Trigger worked for just so much
                            money per month and doubtless hated the men who paid him his wage. On
                            board the Doraine, as was the case with all other
                            vessels on which he chose to sail, the banker sat at the
                            Captain's table. But he did not consider that to be a
                            distinction or an honour; it was his due. As a matter of fact, he looked
                            upon himself as the real-head of the Captain's table!
                        Half a dozen persons in all that company comprised Landover's
                            circle of desirables. Of the rest, most of them were impossible,
                            three-fourths of them were "anarchists," all of them
                            were beneath notice, except as listeners. As for Percival, if that young
                            man was not literally and actually a bandit, at least he had all the
                            instincts of one. In any case, he was a "bum."
                            Whenever Mr. Landover was at a loss for a word to express contumely for
                            his fellow-man, and he was seldom at a loss, he called him a
                            "bum."
                        The women on board were divided into three classes in Landover's
                            worldly opinion: the kind you would marry (rare), the kind you
                            wouldn't marry (plentiful), and the kind you wouldn't
                            have to marry (common). He put Olga Obosky and Careni-Amori in this
                            rather extensive third class, and even went so far as to set what he
                            considered a fair value upon them as human commodities!
                        He worked with the gang of "log-toters," a term
                            supplied by Percival. They were the men who carried or dragged the
                            trimmed tree-trunks from the forest to the camp site, where they were
                            subsequently hewn into shape for structural purposes by the more skilful
                            handlers of ax and wedge and saw.
                        A certain man named Manuel Crust was the foreman  of this gang. He was a swarthy, powerful
                            "Portugee" who was on his way to Rio to kill the pal
                            who had run away with his wife. He was going up there to kill Sebastian
                            Cabral and live happily for ever afterward. His idea of future happiness
                            was to sit by the fireside in his declining years and pleasantly
                            ruminate over the variety of deaths he had inflicted upon the loathsome
                            Sebastian. In the first place, he was going to strangle him with his
                            huge, gnarled hands; then he was going to cut off his ears and nose and
                            stuff them into the vast slit he had made in his throat; then he would
                            dig his heart out with a machete; then, one by one, he would expertly
                            amputate his legs, arms and tongue; afterwards he would go through the
                            grisly process of disemboweling him; and, then, in the end, he would
                            build a nice, roaring fire and destroy what remained of Sebastian.
                            Inasmuch as either of these sanguinary and successive measures might
                            reasonably be expected to produce the desired result, it will be seen
                            that Sebastian was doomed to experience at least six horrific deaths
                            before the avenger got through with him. At any rate, if one could
                            believe Manuel, and there seemed to be no end of conviction in the way
                            he expressed himself, the luckless home-wrecker, if he lived long
                            enough, was absolutely certain to die.
                        Landover took a strange fancy to Manuel Crust. He was drawn to him in the
                            first place by the blasphemous things he said about Percival. In the
                            second place, he enjoyed Manuel's vituperative remarks about
                            cutting the liver out of the "boss." Notwithstanding
                            the fact that Manuel was more or less given to cutting the livers out of
                            remote and invisible persons, including King Alfonso, the Kaiser, Queen
                            Victoria (he didn't know she was dead), King Manuel, the Czar
                            of  Russia, the Presidents of all the
                            South American republics, the Sultan of Turkey, President Roosevelt, and
                            Sebastian Cabral, Mr. Landover positively loved to hear him talk. He
                            made a point of getting him to talk about Percival a great deal of the
                            time. He also liked the way in which the prodigious Manuel deferred to
                            him. It inspired the philanthropic motives that led him to share his
                            very excellent cigars with the doughty foreman. Moreover, he had
                            something far back in his mind, had Mr. Abel Landover.
                        Percival was indefatigable. He set the example for every one else, and
                            nothing daunted him. The sceptics, and there were many of them at the
                            start, no longer shook their heads as they went about what once had
                            loomed as a hopeless enterprise, for to their astonishment and
                            gratification the "camp" was actually becoming a
                            substantial reality.
                        The small group of men who, for obvious reasons, had courted the favour
                            of Abel Landover at the outset, now went out of their way to
                            "stand in" with the amazingly popular man of the hour.
                        He represented power, he stood for achievement, he rode on the crest of
                            the wave, and so they believed in him! Landover may have been a wizard
                            in New York, but the wizard of Trigger Island was quite another person
                            altogether, hence the very sensible defection.
                        These gentlemen openly and ardently opposed him on one occasion, however.
                            It was when he proposed that the island should be named for the beloved
                            Captain. They insisted that it be called Percival Island. Failing in
                            this, they advocated with great enthusiasm, but with no success, the
                            application of Percival's name to almost every noticeable
                            peculiarity that the island  possessed.
                            They objected fiercely to the adoption of such titles as these: Mott
                            Haven (the basin); Split Mountain; Gray Ridge (after the lamented Chief
                            Engineer); Penguin Rocks; The Gate of the Winds; Top o' the
                            Morning Peak; Dismal Forest (west of the channel); Peter Pan Wood (east
                            of the channel); Good Luck Channel; Cypress Point; Cape Sunrise (the
                            extreme easterly end of the island); Leap-frog River; Little Sandy and
                            Big Sandy (the beaches); Crackoday Farm; New Gibraltar (the western end
                            of the island); St. Anthony Falls. Michael O'Malley Malone
                            christened the turbulent little waterfall up in the hills. He liked the
                            sound of the name, he claimed, and besides it was about time the stigma
                            of shame that had so long rested upon the poor old saint was rewarded by
                            complete though belated vindication.
                        Strange to say, no name was ever proposed for the
                            "camp." Back in the mind of each and every member of
                            the lost company lay the unvoiced belief, amounting to superstition,
                            that it would be tempting fate to speak of this long row of cabins as
                            anything more enduring than "the camp."
                        Notwithstanding his dominant personality and the remarkable capacity he
                            had for real leadership, Percival was a simple, sensitive soul. He
                            writhed under the lash of conspicuous adulation, and there was a good
                            deal of it going on.
                        The satiric Randolph Fitts, notwithstanding his unquestioned admiration
                            for the younger man, took an active delight in denouncing what he was
                            prone to allude to as Percival's political aspirations. It is
                            only fair to state that Fitts confined his observations to a very small
                            coterie of friends, chief among whom was the subject himself.
                        
                        "You are the smartest politician I've ever encountered,
                            and that's saying a good deal," he remarked one
                            evening as he sat smoking with a half dozen companions in front of one
                            of the completed huts. They were ranged in a row, like so many birds,
                            their tired backs against the "faade" of the cabin,
                            their legs stretched out in front of them. "You're too
                            deep for me. I don't see just what your game is, A. A. If there
                            was a chance to graft, I'd say that was it, but you could graft
                            here for centuries and have nothing to show for it but fresh air. Even
                            if you were to run for the office of king, or sultan or shah, you
                            wouldn't get anything but votes, and you'd get about
                            all of 'em, I'll say that for you. To a man, the women
                            would vote for you, especially if you were to run for sultan. What is your game?"
                        Percival smoked in silence, his gaze fixed on the moonlit line of trees
                            across the field.
                        "And speaking of women, that reminds me," went on
                            Fitts. "When does my lord and master intend to transplant our
                            crop of ladies?"
                        "What's that, Fitts?" said Percival, called
                            out of his dream.
                        "Ladies, what about 'em? When do they come ashore to
                            occupy the mansions we have prepared for them?"
                        "Captain Trigger suggests next week."
                        "What's he got to do with it? Ain't you
                            king?"
                        "He's got a lot to do with it, you blithering
                            boob."
                        "Besides," drawled Peter Snipe, the novelist, picking
                            doggedly at the calloused ridges on one of his palms, "some of
                            the women object to moving in the dark of the moon. They say
                            it's sure to bring bad luck."
                        
                        "There's quite a mixup about it," observed
                            Flattner. "Part of 'em claim it's good luck.
                            Madame Obosky says she never had any good luck moving by the light of
                            the moon, and Careni-Amori says she doesn't blame her for
                            feeling that way. Sort of cattish way of implying that the fair Olga
                            could get along without any moon at all. Professional jealousy, I
                            suppose."
                        "I was speaking to Miss Clinton about it today,"
                            remarked Michael Malone.
                        "What does she think about it?" from Percival.
                        "I don't know. She asked me what I thought about
                            it."
                        "And what did you tell her?"
                        "I told her I wasn't a woman, and that let me out.
                            Being a man, I'm not entitled to a vote or an opinion, and
                            I'd be very much obliged to her if she'd not try to
                            drag me into it, and to answer my question if she could. Whereupon she
                            said she was in favour of moving by the light of the sun, and
                            payin' no attention at all to the moon. Which I thought was a
                            very intelligent arrangement. You see, if they move in the daytime the
                            damned old moon won't know anything about it till it's
                            too late and "
                        "You're the first Irisher I've ever seen who
                            wasn't superstitious, Mike," broke in Fitts, with
                            enthusiasm. "It takes a great load off my mind. Now I can ask
                            you why the devil you've never returned that pocket-knife of
                            mine. I thought you had some sort of superstition about it. A good many
                            people, really bright and otherwise intelligent people, firmly believe
                            it's bad luck to return anything that's been borrowed.
                            I suppose I've owned fifty umbrellas in my time. The only man
                            who ever returned one, but you know what happened without my telling
                            you. He got caught in a  sudden shower on
                            his way home from my apartment after making a special trip to return it,
                            and died some three years later of pneumonia. Sick two days, I heard.
                            So, as long as you're not a bit superstitious about it,
                            I'd thank you "
                        "I'd have you know that I never keep anything I borrow,
                            that is, never more than a day. It's against my principles.
                            Don't ask me for your dommed old knife. I
                            lent it weeks ago to Soapy Shay."
                        "You did?" cried Fitts, incredulity and relief in his
                            voice. "Much obliged. I haven't been able to look
                            Soapy in the face for a month. Did he recognize it?"
                        "I think he did. He kissed it."
                        "Landover tried to borrow my lead pencil yesterday,"
                            remarked Flattner. "Finally offered to put up his letter of
                            credit as security. I gave him the laugh. That lead pencil is worth more
                            than all the letters of credit lumped together. He wanted to write a
                            note. So I agreed to let him use it if he wouldn't take it out
                            of my sight and on condition that he didn't write more than
                            five or six lines. But when he made as if he was going to sharpen it, I
                            threatened him with an ax. Can you beat that for wastefulness? These
                            low-down rich don't know the meaning of frugality. Why, if I
                            hadn't stopped him he might have whittled off five thousand
                            dollars' worth of lead, just like that. I also had to caution
                            him about bearing down too hard while he was writing."
                        "What was he wanting to write a note for?" demanded
                            Malone. "Has he lost his voice?"
                        "It was a note of apology. He says he never fails to write a
                            note of apology when he's done something he's ashamed
                            of, or words to that effect. Lifelong practice, he says."
                        
                        "Who was he apologizin' to?"
                        "That little nurse, Miss Lake, the one with the coral ear-rings.
                            You know, Mike. I saw you carrying a bucket of water for her
                            yesterday."
                        "Her name isn't Lake," said Malone.
                            "It's Hardwickley. And if you had your eyes open,
                            you'd have seen me carrying one for her every day, so you
                            would, my lad."
                        "The damned villain!" exploded Flattner. "He
                            told me her name was Lake, word with only four letters, and she turns
                            out to have let's see, eleven! I call that
                            pretty shifty work, I do. You can't trust these wizards of Wall
                            Street. They'll do you every crack, if you don't keep
                            your eye peeled. Hornswoggled me out of seven letters."
                        "You've got to watch 'em," mused
                            Fitts. "What was he apologizing to her for?"
                        "Something to do with his washing. I don't just
                            remember what it was, but I think she didn't iron and fold his
                            handkerchiefs properly, or maybe it was his collars. In any case, he
                            panned her for it, and afterwards repented. Told me in so many words
                            that he felt like a blooming cad about it, and couldn't rest
                            till he had apologized."
                        Fitts took several puffs at his pipe and then remarked: "That
                            man has the biggest wash of anybody in this camp. I don't see
                            any real reason why he should change collars three times a day while
                            he's hauling logs down from the hills. As a matter of fact,
                            what's the sense of wearing a collar at all? Most of us
                            don't even wear shirts. See here, your majesty, begging your
                            pardon for disturbing your thoughts with my foot, why don't you
                            issue a manifesto or edict or something prohibiting the use of collars
                            except on  holidays, or at weddings,
                            funerals and so forth?"
                        Percival yawned. "If Landover didn't have a collar on
                            he'd think he was stark naked. Gosh, I'd like to go to
                            bed."
                        "Why don't you? We'll call you as soon as we
                            get any news," said Flattner.
                        "No, I'll stick it out a while longer. I say, Flat, it
                            begins to look as if there's real wheat coming up over there
                            after all. Old Pedro was telling me today that it looks like a cinch
                            unless we got it sowed too late and cold weather comes along too soon. I
                            never dreamed we'd get results. Putting out spring wheat in
                            virgin soil like this is a new one on me. If it does
                            thrive and deliver, by gosh, a whole lot of agricultural dope will be
                            knocked to pieces. I thought spring wheat had to be sown in land that
                            was ploughed the fall before. What's the explanation?"
                        "You can't explain nature, A. A.," said Percy
                            Knapendyke. "Nature does so darned many unnatural things that
                            you can't pin your faith to it at all. Of course, it was a pure
                            experiment we made. We happened to have a lot of hard spring wheat, and
                            this alluvial soil, deep and rich, was worth tackling. Old Pedro was as
                            much surprised as I was when it began to come up. Using that fertilizer
                            was an experiment, too. He swore it wouldn't help a bit. Now he
                            just scratches his head and says God did it. We've got fifty
                            acres out there as green as paint and you can almost see it grow. If
                            nothing happens we ought to harvest it by the middle of February, and if
                            God keeps on doing things for us, we may get as much as twenty-five
                            bushels to the acre. It's different with the oats. You can
                            plant oats on unploughed land, just as we did, and you can't
                            stop it growing. The oats field  up there
                            along the base of the hills is a peach. Takes about ninety days for oats
                            to ripen. That means we'll harvest it in about two months, and
                            we'll beat the cold weather to it. Forty or fifty to the acre,
                            if we have any luck at all. Potatoes doing well and Say, did I tell you
                            what I've found out about that stuff growing over there in the
                            lowlands beyond the river? Well, it's flax. It's the
                            same sort of thing that grows in New Zealand. Those plants I was
                            pointing out to you last week, the ones with the long brownish leaves,
                            like swords. There's no mistake about it. I took those two
                            Australian sailors over to look at 'em a day or two ago and
                            they swear it's the same plant, growing wild. Same little
                            capsule shaped fruit, with the little black seeds, and everything.
                            I've been reading up on it in the encyclopedia. You cut those
                            leaves off when they get to be full size, macerate 'em in water
                            for a few days, sun dry 'em, and then weave 'em some
                            way or another. We'll have to work that out. Strongest sort of
                            fibre in the leaves. Makes a very stout cloth, rope, twine, all that
                            sort of thing. Opens up a new and important industry, boys, particularly
                            obnoxious to married men. We'll be having dress-making
                            establishments in full blast before you know it, and model gowns till
                            you can't rest. I almost hate to spread the news among the
                            women. We won't have a cook, or a laundress, or a
                            school-teacher on the Island if this dressmaking craze gets started.
                            Every hut along this row will have a sign beside the door:
                            'Dressmaking Done Here.' On the other hand, I doubt
                            very much if we'll be able to get a single tailor-shop going,
                            and God knows I'll soon need a new pair of pants, especially if
                            we're going to have regular church services every Sunday, as
                            Percival says."
                        
                        "Father Francisco and Parson Mackenzie have finally got together
                            on it," said Malone gloomily. "For the first time in
                            the history of civilization we're going to have a combination
                            Catholic and Protestant Church. It's all arranged. Father
                            Francisco is going to conduct mass in the morning and Parson Mackenzie
                            is going to talk about hell-fire in the evening. I was wondering what
                            the Jews are going to do for a synagogue and a rabbi."
                        "I can't answer that question," said Peter
                            Snipe; "but Morris Shine tackled me the other day to write a
                            play for him, something with music and dancing in it. He's got
                            a great idea, he says. A stock company to use the church building once a
                            month. Expects to submit his scheme to Fitts as soon as he gets it
                            worked out, with the idea of having our prize little architect provide
                            for a stage with ecclesiastical props in the shape of pulpits and
                            chancels and so forth, which can be removed on short notice. Suggests,
                            as a matter of thrift, that footlights be put in instead of altar
                            candles. Free show, free acting, no advertising bills, no royalties to
                            authors, free programs, everything free, including supper."
                        "Grand little idea, Pete," said Percival. "Are
                            you going to write the play?"
                        "Sure. My faithful old typewriter is aching to be thumped once
                            more, and I've got half-a-dozen extra ribbons, thank God. Good
                            for two long novels and an epitaph. Just as soon as we can get the
                            ship's printing press and dining-room type ashore,
                            I'll be ready to issue The Trigger Island
                                Transcript, w.t.f. if you know what that means. I see you
                            don't. Weekly till forbidden."
                        "I've always wondered what those confounded letters  meant down in the corner of the half-inch
                            advertisements," said Flattner. "It will be a
                            rotten-looking newspaper if it's anything like the sheet the
                                Doraine put out on the trip down. No two letters
                            matched, and some of 'em were always upside down. Why were they
                            upside down, Pete? You're an old newspaper man. Tell
                            us."
                        "Because it's impossible to set 'em sideways.
                            If it was possible, the blamed printers could do it,
                            you bet. When I was writing leaders on the Saxville
                            Citizen years ago there was a ruffian up in the composing-room who
                            used to set whole paragraphs of my best editorials in em quads, and when
                            I kicked, Hello, isn't that a lantern, A. A.?"
                        They all scrambled to their feet and peered intently in the direction of
                            the wooded strip that lined the channel. This whilom conversation came
                            to an abrupt end. Ghostly forms suddenly took shape in front of other
                            huts, figures of men that were until then as logs in the shadows. Far
                            off in the road through the wood, a light bobbed, flashed and
                            disappeared intermittently, and finally emerged into the open and came
                            steadily forward. Detached knots of men down the line of huts, twos and
                            threes and fours, swiftly welded themselves into groups, and, hurrying
                            forward, swelled the crowd that congregated at the end of the
                            "street." Two hundred of them, tired but eager,
                            awaited the arrival of the man with the lantern.
                        These were the men who slept on shore, the unmarried men, those who had
                            no "feminine hearth," as Snipe put it dolefully one
                            dark and windy night. Since supper-time these men had been waiting and
                            watching. But few of them had gone to bed. Gentleman and  roustabout, one and all, were linked
                            together by a common anxiety. News of the greatest import was expected
                            during the night.
                        A child was coming to the pathetic little widow of Cruise, the radio-man.
                        Two messengers had gone down to the landing to wait for the report to be
                            shouted from the afterdeck of the Doraine, Soapy Shay
                            and Buck Chizler, the jockey. Now they were returning, and it was
                            nearing midnight.
                        They drew near, the lantern buffeting the legs of the one-time diamond
                            thief as he swung along in the rear of the more active jockey.
                        "It's a girl," called out Buck to the silent
                            mob. Not a sound, not a word from the eager crowd. "Mother and
                            kid both doing well," went on the jockey, a thrilling note of
                            triumph in his voice.
                        And then a roar of voices went up to the moonlit sky. The shackles of
                            doubt and anxiety fell away, and every heart swelled with joy and
                            relief. Men began to dance and laugh. Out in front of the crowd leaped
                            Percival.
                        "Come on now, fellows! Everybody up! Three cheers for the
                            Trigger Island baby! One two three!"
                        And while the last wild cheer was echoing back from the mountainside:
                            "Now, three good ones for the baby's mother, God bless
                            her!"
                        Thrice again the exultant yells echoed across the plain, and then out
                            leaped another excited figure. It was Nicklestick the Jew.
                        "Come on! Come on! Ve got to light the bonfires! Come on! I got
                            the matches! Vait! Vait!  Let's
                            vait while we take off our hats a minute, boys, take them off to our
                            baby's father, Jimmy Cruise. No cheers!"
                        A hush fell over the crowd. Every hat came off, and every head was bent.
                            To many of them James Cruise was no more than a name salvaged from the
                            shocking experiences of those first dreadful days. Few of them had come
                            in actual contact with him. The time had been too short. But Betty
                            Cruise, his widow, was known to all of them, high and low. They had
                            watched over her, and protected her, and slaved for her, for besides
                            pity there was in every man's soul the fiercest desire that
                            nothing, absolutely nothing, should be left undone to insure the happy
                            delivery of the babe they were counting so keenly upon!
                        She was a frail, delicate English girl whom Cruise had married in Buenos
                            Aires the year before. He was taking her up to his mother's
                            home in Connecticut. His death, alas, his annihilation! almost killed
                            her. There were those who said she would die of grief. But, broken and
                            frail as she was, she made the fight. And now came the news that she had
                            "pulled through."
                        There were mothers on board with tiny babies, three or four of them, in
                            fact, peevish, squalling infants that innocently undertook to inspire
                            loathing in the souls of these self-same men. They had no claim upon the
                            imagination or the sympathy of the eager crowd, no such hold as this
                            newcomer, the child born in their pockets, so to speak, an expression
                            first employed by an ardent champion of the impending infant in
                            defending his righteous solicitude when it was attacked by a
                            sophisticated and at the same time exasperated nurse.
                        Two bonfires were started in the open space known  as "The Green." The huge piles of twigs
                            and branches had been thrown up earlier in the evening. They were in
                            plain view of the "lookout" at the top of Split
                            Mountain. It had been agreed that if it was a boy one fire was to be the
                            signal; if a girl, two. The "watch" was to share in
                            the glad tidings!
                        The cheering awoke Abel Landover from a sound sleep. He turned in his
                            bunk and growled:
                        "The damned idiots!"
                        Mr. Landover did not like children. He declined to sit up half the night
                            to find out "how things were going." So he went to
                            bed, knowing perfectly well that his three bunkies would come piling in
                            at some outlandish hour and jabber about the "kid,"
                            and he wouldn't be able to get back to sleep again for hours.
                        He was what is commonly known as a "grass widower." His
                            wife rather too promptly married inside of a month after leaving Reno,
                            and, much to her own gratification and joy, proceeded to have three very
                            desirable children within a period of five years, causing him a great
                            deal of pain and annoyance for the reason that their father had once
                            been regarded as his best friend, and now he couldn't abide the
                            sight of him. He hated children. Now you know the kind of a man he was.
                        Five tired and thoughtful men were going to bed a little later on in one
                            of the huts.
                        "What shall we call her?" came from Randolph Fitts, as
                            he threw one of his clay-covered shoes into the corner.
                        "There's only one name for her," said Percival
                            firmly, from the edge of his bunk. "We'll call her
                            Doraine."
                        "Good shot!" cried Peter Snipe. "I had two
                            names  in mind, but Doraine's got
                            'em both beat. It may not be as pretty as Angelica, but
                            it's more appropriate. Mortimer was the other name I had in
                            mind."
                        "Yep," was the smothered decision of Michael Malone.
                            His shirt came off, and then he spoke more distinctly. "We
                            can't do better than to name her after her birthplace.
                            That's her name. Doraine Cruise. It sounds Irish. Got music in
                            it. All Irish names have, leaving out Michael and Patrick and Cornelius
                            and others applied solely to the creatures who don't take after
                            their blessed mothers and who grow up to be policemen and hod-carriers,
                            with once in awhile a lawyer or labour-leader to glorify the saints they
                            were named for, and Yes, begorry, Doraine's her name."
                        And so it was that, with an arbitrary quaintness, the babe was named
                            without so much as a thought of consulting the mother. They assumed a
                            proprietary interest in her, a sort of corporate ownership that had as
                            its basis a genuine affection for and pride in Cruise's widow.
                            It did not occur to one of them that she ought to have been considered
                            in the matter of naming her own child; they went to sleep perfectly
                            satisfied that when the question was put to a general vote on the morrow
                            there wouldn't be a single dissenting voice against the name
                            they had selected.
                        And Mrs. Cruise herself would be very grateful to them for the prompt
                            assistance they had given her at a time when she was in no condition to
                            be bothered with minor details!
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER IV
                        THE death of Betty Cruise occurred the second day after her baby was
                            born. In a way, this lamentable occurrence solved a knotty problem and
                            pacified two warring sexes, so to speak. For, be it known, the women of
                            the Doraine took a most determined stand against the
                            manner in which the men, viva voce, had arrogated unto
                            themselves the right to name the baby. Not that any one of the women
                            objected to the name they had given her; they were, in fact, pleased
                            with it. But, they protested, this was a matter over which but one
                            person had jurisdiction, and that person was Betty Cruise. If it was not
                            a mother's privilege to name her own child, especially in a
                            case where the infant's father was in no position to decide the
                            question for her, whether she consented or no, then all they could say
                            was that things had come to a pretty pass.
                        At any rate, they were going to see to it that the baby was not named by
                            a mob!
                        Ruth Clinton went straight to Percival.
                        "I hear you have named the baby, Mr. Percival," she
                            said, prefacing her remark by a curt "good morning."
                        It was the first time she had spoken to him in many days. Their ways not
                            only lay apart but she had made a point of avoiding him. She stopped him
                            this morning as he was passing the hut in which she and her aunt were to
                            live with two of the American nurses.
                        The three young women had spent several days in  the making and putting up of some very unusual and
                            attractive window curtains and portires; painting the stones that framed
                            the fireplace, the crude windowcasings and door jamb; and in draping
                            certain corner recesses which were to achieve dignity as clothes
                            closets. They were scrubbing the floor when Percival passed on his way
                            to the "office."
                        His "office," by the way, was a rude
                            "lean-to" at the extreme outer end of the street. It
                            was characteristic of him to establish headquarters at a point farthest
                            removed from the approach to the camp from the ship. Fitts was perhaps
                            the only person who sensed the real motive back of this selection. Every
                            one else attributed it to an amiable conclusion on Percival's
                            part to sacrifice himself for others by walking almost twice as far as
                            any of them. As a matter of fact, he had nothing of the sort in mind. He
                            deliberately arranged it so that all operations should be carried on
                            between headquarters and "home." It was his plan to
                            drive inward instead of outward, to push always in one direction. In
                            other words, thought Fitts quite correctly, he "never had to
                            look behind him for trouble."
                        To save his life, Percival could not subdue the eager, devouring gleam
                            that flashed into his eyes as he looked into hers. He could have cursed
                            himself. A swift warm flush raced from her throat to her cheeks. Her
                            direct, steady gaze faltered under fire, and a confused, trapped
                            expression flickered perceptibly for a moment or two. He mistook it for
                            dismay, or, on second thought, even worse, displeasure.
                        "I I can't help it," he stammered, surprised
                            into voicing the thought that was uppermost. "You know how I
                            feel. I I "
                        But she had recovered her self-possession. "Do  you really think you have the right to
                            name Mrs. Cruise's baby?" she inquired coolly.
                        He managed a wry, deprecatory smile. "Everybody seems to like
                            the name, Miss Clinton. The more I think of it myself, the better it
                            sounds. I tried it out last night in all sorts of combinations. It fits
                            nicely into almost any family tree even Nicklestick's. Just say
                            it to yourself. Doraine Nicklestick. Try any name you like. Doraine
                            Smith, Doraine Humperdinck, Doraine Landover even Doraine Shay and, I
                            tried it out with Clinton. Doraine Clinton. Don't you like it?
                            I even tried Percival. It isn't quite so satisfying tacked onto
                            a name like mine, and it's a poor beginning for Fitts, but with
                            good, sensible surnames, it's fine."
                        "It isn't a question of how it sounds, Mr.
                            Perrival."
                        "Don't you like Doraine Clinton?"
                        "I like almost anything better than Ruth. I suppose most people
                            loathe the names that other people have given them."
                        "No one knows that better than I. I sometimes wonder what they
                            might have called me if I were a girl. Nothing as nice as Doraine, or
                            Ruth, I'll bet my soul on that. Something like Guinevere
                            Aphrodite, or Desdemona Venus, or "
                        "We are getting away from the subject," she interrupted
                            crisply. "Has it occurred to you that poor little Mrs. Cruise
                            might like to name her own baby? Why should you men take it upon
                            yourselves to choose a name for her child? Don't you think you
                            were a trifle high-handed in the matter?"
                        "Of course, if Mrs. Cruise doesn't like Doraine, we
                            will "
                        "You will suggest another, I suppose," she broke in  scornfully. "Well, I may as well
                            inform you that you are about to strike a snag," she went on, a
                            trifle inelegantly in her desire to be emphatic. "We intend to
                            see to it that the mother of that baby gives it a name of her own
                            choosing."
                        "May I inquire just who you mean by we?" he asked.
                        "The women, three hundred of us, Mr. Percival, that's
                            who. I for one happen to know that Betty Cruise chose a name long ago.
                            Her heart is set on naming the baby after her mother, Judith, I think it
                            is. That's the name she wants, but do you
                            imagine she will have the hardihood or the courage, poor little scrap,
                            to oppose you, Mr. Percival? I mean you, personally. She thinks your
                            word is law. She would no more think of defying you than she would think
                            of "
                        "Pardon me, Miss Clinton," he interrupted gently,
                            "but don't you think that's a trifle
                            far-fetched? I am not a dictator, you know. I fancy Mrs. Cruise knows
                            that, even if you do not."
                        "I have heard all about your meeting last night," she
                            went on ruthlessly, her eyes flashing. "How you suggested the
                            name, how you settled the question to suit yourself, and how you called
                            the men together this morning and told them that the child was to be
                            called Doraine before you asked them to vote on it. Vote on it! What a
                            travesty! And no one had the nerve to stand up and say a word for that
                            poor little woman. Oh, you've got them well-tamed, Mr.
                            Percival."
                        By this time the two nurses had appeared in the doorway, and several
                            other women at work down the line, scenting the fray, were approaching.
                        "I guess you'd better call off the vote, Mr.
                            Percival," said one of the nurses, eyeing him unflinchingly.
                        
                        "I can't call it off. The men adopted the name
                            unanimously. I have no right to set aside their decision, no matter how
                            hastily it was made," said he, beginning to bridle now that he
                            tasted concerted opposition.
                        "I warn you that I intend to call the women, and what few men
                            there are with minds of their own, together this evening to see that
                            Betty Cruise gets fair play," said Ruth. "When she
                            hears that we are behind her, she'll have the backbone to tell
                            you men to mind your own business and "
                        "Have I a mind of my own or not, Miss Clinton?" he
                            interrupted.
                        "You certainly have," she declared with conviction.
                        "Then you may expect me to be one of the men to attend your
                            meeting. Good morning." He lifted his hat, smiled and walked
                            briskly away.
                        "He'll crab the whole thing," observed one of
                            the women, and despite her vocal rancour there was an admiring
                            expression in her eyes as they followed him down the road.
                        "If he wants to call that baby Andrew Jackson or George
                            Washington, he'll have his way," said another.
                            "Sex won't make any difference to him."
                        "You just wait and see," said Ruth, quivering with
                            indignation.
                        "Mercy, how you must hate him, Miss Clinton," cried one
                            of her house-mates.
                        "I only wish I were a man," cried the other, clenching
                            her fists.
                        "It would simplify matters tremendously," came in dry,
                            masculine tones from the outskirts of the group. They turned and
                            discovered Randolph Fitts. He was smiling sympathetically.
                        
                        "I don't quite see what you mean, Mr. Fitts,"
                            said Ruth, after a moment.
                        "Because if you were a man, Miss Clinton, you wouldn't
                            even think of hating him. You'd love
                            him."
                        Miss Clinton stared at him for a second or two and then, whirling,
                            entered the hut. Her cheeks were burning. Who shall say whether the
                            tears that sprang to her eyes as she fell to work scrubbing in the
                            corner were of anger or self-pity?
                        Briefly, the situation became quite strained as the day wore on. Women
                            gathered in little knots to discuss the unprecedented
                            "nerve" of the men. By night-fall they were pretty
                            thoroughly worked up over a matter that had mildly amused them at the
                            outset of the day. A comparatively small proportion had cared one way or
                            the other in the beginning. Most of them did not care at all. Given
                            time, however, to digest the thought, aided by such seasoning as could
                            be supplied by a half dozen determined and more or less eloquent voices,
                            they came in the course of a few hours to the conclusion that they never
                            had heard of anything so outrageous, and, to a woman, were ready to
                            fight for little Mrs. Cruise's rights!
                        Several of the stewardesses and two or three women from the second cabin
                            were avowed and bitter suffragettes. Indeed, two of the stewardesses,
                            being English, were of the hatchet-wielding, brick-throwing element that
                            made things so warm for the pained but bullheaded male population of
                            London shortly before the Great War began. These ladies harangued their
                            companions with great effect.
                        To have heard or witnessed the little gatherings at noon and at the close
                            of work for the day, one might have been led to believe that a grave,
                            portentous question  of state was
                            involved. Trifling and simple as all this may seem to the reader of this
                            narrative, it serves a definite purpose. It reveals to a no uncertain
                            degree the eagerness with which these castaways reached out hungrily for
                            the slightest morsel that would satisfy the craving of active minds
                            dulled by the constant, never-absent thought of self; minds charged with
                            thoughts that centred on something thousands of miles away; minds that
                            seldom if ever worked in harmony with hands that toiled.
                        The men took up the gauntlet. They considered themselves challenged.
                            Notwithstanding the secret conviction that the women were right, they stood united in defence of their action. Nothing
                            that Percival could say or do moved them. He tramped from one group of
                            toilers to another, always meeting with the same grins and laughter when
                            he suggested that they wait until Mrs. Cruise was able to approve or
                            disapprove of the name they had chosen.
                        "Good gosh!" cried one of the sailors. "Are
                            you goin' to give in to the women, boss?"
                        "Well, I've been thinking it over, boys. I guess we
                            were a little too officious. We meant well, God knows, but after all,
                            Betty Cruise ought to be consulted, now,
                            oughtn't she?"
                        "Sure," cried any number of them cheerfully.
                            "It's her kid."
                        "Well, there you are," he rejoined persuasively.
                        "But how do we know she won't be tickled to death with
                            our name? She'd ought to be. It's purtier than any
                            name I can think of," argued Jack Wales, a sailor.
                            "When she's well enough, we'll tell her the
                            kid's name is Doraine, and "
                        "She won't hold back a second, boss, when she finds  out that you picked it for her,"
                            broke in another. "Only a couple o' days ago she was
                            sayin' to one of the other women in my hearin' that if
                            it was a boy she was goin' to call him Percival, and she
                            didn't know what on earth she'd do if it was a girl.
                            Said she'd probably have to call it after her mother and she
                            didn't like her mother's name a little bit."
                        "I know, but after all, we did butt in a
                            trifle too soon with our "
                        "For God's sake, don't let any of these here
                            women hear you talk like that, boss," groaned Jack Wales.
                            "They'll think we're beginning to hedge. We
                            got to stand together in this thing. If we don't,
                            they'll rule this camp sure as you're a foot high. I
                            don't give a dern what the kid's name is, far as
                            I'm concerned, but on principle, boss, it's just got
                            to be Doraine. Doraine she is an' Doraine she stays."
                        Every one of them was good-humoured about it. They were taking it as a
                            rare and unexpected bit of politics. The thrill of opposition invested
                            them. They scoffed at surrender.
                        Buck Chizler, however, was seriously affected. He was courting one of the
                            nurses and he, for one, saw peril in preliminary defeat.
                        "There won't be any living with 'em,"
                            he proclaimed, scowling darkly. "I know what it is to have
                            'em get the bit in their teeth. You just can't manage
                            'em, that's all. Upset all the dope. Likely to throw
                            you clear over the fence. Experience ain't a particle of use.
                            The gad don't do a bit of good. They just shut their jaws, lay
                            back their ears, and "
                        "We're not talking about race-horses, Buck,"
                            interrupted Percival, smiling.
                        "Neither am I," said Buck forcibly.
                        
                        Ruth went to Olga Obosky. She did so only after a rather prolonged inward
                            struggle. The Russian's interest in Percival was not moderated
                            by the reserve supposed to be inherent in women. She was an open
                            idolatress. One had only to watch the way she followed him with her
                            dark, heavy-lidded eyes to know what was in her mind. Ruth tried not to
                            despise her. She tried not to care, when she saw Percival laughing and
                            talking with this beguiling sensualist, and it was not an infrequent
                            occurrence.
                        The dancer was seated on the floor of her hut, tailor-fashion, a
                            cigarette between her lips, her bare arms resting limply on her knees,
                            her body bent forward in an attitude of extreme fatigue. The three
                            "coryphees" were busy at work about the place with
                            Olga's maid. Ruth stopped in the doorway. Olga lazily removed
                            the cigarette from her lips and smiled.
                        "I once thought I was very strong and unbreakable," she
                            said, "but now I know I am not. See, I am all in, as we would
                            say in America. Suffering snakes, how tired I am! That also comes from
                            America. Won't you sit down, Miss Clinton? We have three or
                            four deck chairs, you see, and some cushions."
                        "Why do you sit there on the floor, all doubled up and heavens,
                            it must be uncomfortable, if you are so tired? How do you manage your
                            legs?"
                        "My legs? Oh, my legs are never tired. It is my poor
                            back." Whereupon she slowly, gracefully straightened out one of
                            her legs, and without changing the position of her body, raised it, with
                            toes and instep on a perfect line, until the heel was some three feet
                            from the floor. Then she swung it slowly backward, twisting her body
                            sinuously to one side. A moment  later the
                            foot was stretched out behind her and she lifted herself steadily,
                            without apparent exertion, upon the other knee, and then stood erect.
                            Ruth watched this remarkable feat in wonder and admiration.
                        "How how on earth do you do it?" she cried.
                            "Why, you must be as strong as as a " She was about to
                            say horse, and floundered.
                        "But I trust not as clumsy as one," said Madame Obosky,
                            stretching her body in luxurious abandon. "I sit on the floor
                            like zat, my friend, because my back is tired, not my legs. If I lie
                            back in ze deck chair when I am tired, I would relax, and would make so
                            much more regret for myself when the time came to get up again. Besides,
                            it is a good way to rest, zis way. Have you never tried it? Do,
                            sometime. The whole body rests, it sags; the muscles have nothing to do,
                            so they become soft and grateful. The backbone, the shoulders, the neck,
                            they all droop and oh, zey they are so happy to be like zat. It is the
                            same as when I am asleep and they are not running errands all the time
                            for my brain. The Arab sits like zat when he rests, and the Hindoo, and
                            they are strong, oh, so very strong. Try it, sometime, Miss Clinton,
                            when you are very tired. It is the best way to let go, all
                            over."
                        Ruth laughed. "I couldn't do it to save my
                            soul."
                        "Oh, I do not mean for you to get up as I did, or use your leg
                            as I did. You could not do zat. You are too old. That is one of the
                            fruits, one of the benefits of the cruelest kind of child labour. I was
                            a great many years in making myself able to do zat. See! Put your hand
                            on my leg. Now my back, my arm. What you think, eh?"
                        
                        Ruth, in some embarrassment, had shyly obeyed her. The dancer's
                            thigh was like a column of warm iron; her waist, free as ever from
                            stays, was firm and somehow suggestive of actual resilience; her
                            shoulders and back possessed the hard, rippling muscles of a
                            well-developed boy; her shapely forearm was as hard as steel. Ruth
                            marvelled.
                        "How strong you are!" she cried; "and yet you
                            are slight. You are not as big as I am, but oh, how much stronger you
                            are!"
                        "I have a perfect figure," said Olga calmly.
                            "It is worth preserving. No one admires my body so much as I do
                            myself. I must not get fat. When you are a fat old woman, I shall still
                            be as I am now. You will diet, and pray, and rave, because you are
                            growing old, and I shall do none of these things. I eat like a pig, I
                            never pray, and I do not believe in growing old. But you do not come to
                            see me about myself, Miss Clinton. You find me sitting idly with my legs
                            crossed, and you are surprise. I work as I dance, very, oh, so very hard
                            while I am at ze task, but with frequent periods of rest. So I do not
                            wear out myself too soon. It is the only way. Work for an hour, rest for
                            ten minutes, relax and forget, and you will see how well it goes. Why do
                            you come? Is it to talk about the baby?"
                        "Yes, it is, Madame Obosky. I have come to ask you to use your
                            influence with Mr. Percival. You "
                        "But I have no influence with Mr. Percivail,"
                            interrupted the other, staring.
                        Ruth flushed. "You are his friend. You "
                        "Ah, yes, but nothing more than zat. You too are his friend,
                            Miss Clinton."
                        "I see little or nothing of Mr. Percival," said Ruth
                                 stiffly. "We are not
                            friends, not really friends."
                        "But you admire him, eh? Quite as much as I admire him, and as
                            every one else does."
                        "There are certain things about him that I admire, of
                            course."
                        "You admire him for the same reason that I admire him. Because
                            he has a most charming and agreeable way of telling me to go to the
                            devil. Is that not so?"
                        "Madame Obosky!"
                        "It comes to the same thing. If you would like me to put it in
                            another form, he has a very courteous way of resisting. He is most
                            aggravating, Miss Clinton. He is most disappointing. He should be like
                            soft clay in our hands, and he isn't. Is that not so?"
                        "Is it not possible, Madame Obosky, that we, you and I, may have
                            an entirely different viewpoint so far as Mr. Percival is concerned? Or
                            any other man, for that matter?" Ruth spoke coldly, almost
                            insultingly.
                        "I dare say," agreed Olga, composedly, not in the least
                            offended by the implication. "You want to marry him. I do
                            not."
                        "How dare you say that? I do not want to marry that man. I do
                            not want to marry him, I say."
                        "How interesting. You surprise me, Miss Clinton. It appears,
                            then, that our viewpoint is in nowise different, after all."
                        "What do you mean by that?"
                        "I leave it to your imagination, and to reflection. Listen! We
                            may as well be friends. You do not wish to admit it, even to yourself,
                            but you are in love with him. So am I. The difference between us is that
                            I realize I can get along without him, and still be happy.  I am not jealous, my dear. If I were, I
                            should hate you, and I do not. He is in love with you. You know it
                            perfectly well, because you are not a fool. He is not in love with me.
                            No more am I a fool. He "
                        "I am not in love with him!"
                        "So be it," said Olga shortly. "Have your own
                            way about it. It is not my affair. You have come to me, however, because
                            you know he loves you and you know you do not love him. Why, therefore,
                            are you afraid of me?"
                        "It is useless to continue this "
                        "Oh, I see! You do not wish my girls to hear our
                            conversation." Without more ado, she ordered the three girls
                            out of the hut. "Go out and play," she commanded.
                            Then, as the girls departed in haste, she turned to Ruth. "I am
                            very thoughtless. You are not in the habit of discussing your love
                            affairs quite so generously as I. Poof! They do not care, those girls.
                            Love affairs mean nothing to my girls."
                        "I have no love affair to discuss, Madame Obosky. You need not
                            have sent them away. Good-bye. There is nothing more to be said
                            "
                        "Do not go away, please. You do not know whether to like me or
                            not. You do not understand me. You have never encountered any woman as
                            honest as I am, zat is the trouble. Sit down, please. Let us talk. We
                            may be here together on this island all the rest of our lives, Miss
                            Clinton. It would not be right for us to hate each other. When you are
                            married to Mr. Percivail, you will have nothing to fear from me. I give
                            you my solemn oath on zat, Miss Clinton. Our little world here is too
                            small. If we were out in the great big world, well, it might be
                            different then.  But, how, I ask you, is
                            it possible for me to run away with your husband when there is no place
                            to run away to?"
                        She spoke so quaintly that Ruth smiled in spite of herself.
                        "You are a most extraordinary person, Madame Obosky. I I
                            can't dislike you. No, thank you, I sha'n't
                            sit down. I came to see you about the naming of the baby. I suppose you
                            know that we women have decided to oppose the "
                        "Yes, yes, I know," interrupted the other.
                            "But why should we oppose? It is a very small matter."
                        "Do you really believe those men had or have the right to give a
                            name to Betty Cruise's baby? I don't believe it,
                            Madame Obosky."
                        "In the first place, can you blame Mr. Percivail for taking the
                            matter out of the mother's hands? Mothers are very, oh, so very
                            stupid sometime, you know. For example, my dear Miss Clinton, you have
                            but to see what Mr. Percivail's mother did to him when he was
                            an infant. She called him Algernon Adonis, and why? Because she thought
                            he was the most wonderful child in all the world, and because she was
                            silly. I can almost hear her arguing now with the father, poor man. One
                            day I asked Algernon Adonis what name his father called him by, I was so
                            sure he would not call him Algernon. He said that up to the day his
                            father died he called him Bud. That's a boy's name,
                            you see. I am in favour of children being named by outsiders,
                            disinterested outsiders, a committee or something,men preferably. I
                            think this child should be called Doraine. Betty Cruise she do not care
                            what she call it now that it is not possible to call it Jimmy Percivail
                            or Percivail Jimmy. Has it  occur to you
                            that if it had been a boy, all these men would have insisted on Jimmy,
                            without the Percivail?"
                        "I like the name Doraine, we all do. What we resent is Mr.
                            Percival's presumption in "
                        "Let me tell you one more thing. Do not permit Mr. Percivail to
                            address your indignation meeting tonight, for if you do, and he smiles
                            zat nice, good-humoured smile and tells the ladies zat he is sorry to
                            have displease them, and zat he is to blame entirely for the blunder,
                            poof! Zat will be the end!"
                        "I am not so sure of that," said Ruth. "There
                            are some very determined women among us, Madame Obosky." A
                            faint line appeared between her eyes, however, a line acknowledging
                            doubt and uncertainty. "And you will not join us in the
                            protest?"
                        "No," said Olga, shaking her head. "I am
                            content to let the men have their way in small things, Miss Clinton. It
                            makes zem them so much easier to manage when it comes to the big things.
                            I speak from experience. Once let a man think he is monarch of all he
                            surveys and he becomes the most humble of subjects. As I have said
                            before, we may all be here for a long, long time. No one can tell. So, I
                            say, we must pat our men on the back and tell zem what great, wise,
                            strong fellows they are, and how good and gallant too. Then they will
                            fight for us like the lion, and zey they will work for us like the ass
                            and the oxen, because man he enjoys to be applauded greatly. A man likes
                            to have his hair rubbed gently with the finger tips. He will smile and
                            close his eyes and if he knew how he would purr like the cat. But, my
                            dear, he do not like to have his hair pulled. Zat is something for you
                            to remember, you and all your determined women, as you call
                            them."
                        
                        "Of course you understand, Madame Obosky, I and the other women,
                            are thinking only of Betty Cruise in this matter."
                        "From what I have been told, all these men out here stayed awake
                            half the night thinking about her, Miss Clinton. They behave like so
                            many distracted fathers waiting for news from the bed-chamber. Bless
                            their hearts, you might think from their actions that the whole two
                            three hundred of them consider themselves the consolidated father of zat
                            single infant."
                        "I must be getting back to my work," said Ruth
                            abruptly. Her eyes were shining, her voice was soft and strangely thick.
                            "But," she went on bravely, after clearing her throat,
                            "we intend to fight it out with them, just the same, Madame
                            Obosky."
                        Olga went to the door with her.
                        "You mean, you intend to fight it out with Mr. Percivail, you
                            yourself, eh?"
                        "It is not a personal matter with me, let me remind you once
                            more. He is their leader. He dominates them. He is the force that holds
                            them together. That's all."
                        "And you would render that force impotent, eh? I see. How wise
                            you women are!"
                        Ruth stopped short, struck by the remark. "Say that again,
                            please."
                        Olga repeated the words slowly, significantly, and added: "They
                            might have a worse leader, Miss Clinton."
                        At another time, Ruth Clinton would have been deeply impressed by the
                            underlying significance of the Russian's words. But she was at
                            the mercy of a stubborn, rebellious pride. She chose to ignore the
                            warning that lay in Obosky's remark. She felt herself  beaten, and she was defiant. It was too
                            late to hark now to the mild, temperate voice of reason.
                        Something rankled-deep down in her soul, something she was ashamed to
                            acknowledge even to herself. It was the disagreeable conviction that
                            Percival ascribed her activities to nothing more stable than feminine
                            perversity, in fact, she had the uncomfortable feeling that he even went
                            so far as to attribute them to spitefulness. Something in his voice and
                            manner, as he left her that morning, suggested the kindly chiding of a
                            wilful child. Well, he should see!
                        "I don't care what it all comes to, Madame
                            Obosky," she said, a red spot in each cheek. "He shall
                            not name that baby."
                        The Russian smiled. "Forgive me for saying that you will not
                            feel so bitterly toward him when the time comes for him to name your baby."
                        Ruth's lips fell apart. She stared for a moment in sheer
                            astonishment. Then she paled with anger. Drawing herself to her full
                            height, she asked:
                        "Are you deliberately trying to make me despise you?"
                        "By no means," replied the other, quite cheerfully.
                            "I am merely giving you something to think about, zat is
                            all."
                        "Rubbish!" was all that Ruth flung over her shoulder as
                            she walked away.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER V
                        IT was the noon hour. Scores of men were resting in the shade of the huts
                            as she strode briskly past. They all smiled cheerily, but there was good
                            humoured mockery in their smiles. Here and there were groups of women
                            talking earnestly, excitedly.
                        Abel Landover was leaning in his doorway, watching her approach. His eyes
                            gleamed. She was very beautiful, she was very desirable. She had been in
                            his mind for months, this fine, strong, thoroughbred daughter of a
                            thoroughbred gentleman. His sleeves were rolled up, his throat was bare;
                            his strong, deeply lined face was as brown as a berry; if anything, his
                            cold grey eyes were harder and more penetrating than in the days when
                            they looked out from a whiter countenance. He was a strong, dominant
                            figure despite the estate to which he had fallen, a silent, sinister
                            figure that might well have been described as "The
                            Thinker." For he was always thinking.
                        "I understand you tackled the 'boss' this
                            morning, Ruth," he said as she came up.
                        "I daresay the news is all over the island by this
                            time," she replied, still angry.
                        "Was it worth while?" he inquired, a trace of derision
                            in his voice.
                        She was on the point of replying rather emphatically in the negative,
                            when suddenly she recalled the look in Percival's eyes and the
                            first words he spoke to her. She caught her breath. Her eyes sparkled,
                            her lips parted in a rosy smile.
                        
                        "Yes, Mr. Landover, it was worth
                            while," she said, and went on, leaving him to reflections that
                            were as perplexing as they were unanticipated.
                        She experienced a short spell of triumph. After all Percival was in love with her. She did not need Olga Obosky to tell her
                            that. She could see, she could feel for herself. A certain glee
                            possessed her, indeed, as she afterwards succeeded in analysing the
                            sensation, it bordered decidedly on malice. She had it in her power to
                            make him miserable and unhappy. She would enjoy seeing him unhappy!
                        The meanness of the woman who longs to injure the man who loves her,
                            whether loved or unloved, revealed itself for the moment in this
                            fair-minded, generous girl. (It is a common trait, admitted by many
                            fair-minded and generous women!) But even as she coddled and encouraged
                            the little sprout of vengeance, the chill of common-sense rushed up and
                            blighted it.
                        She had a sickening impression that Percival would fail to play the part
                            according to her conception. In fact, he was quite capable of not
                            playing it at all. He would pursue the even tenor of his way (she
                            actually made use of the time-honoured phrase in her reflections), and
                            she would get small satisfaction out of that.
                        Moreover, there was Olga Obosky to be reckoned with. She was conscious of
                            a hot, swiftly passing sense of suffocation as the thought of Olga
                            rushed unbidden into her brain, for an instant only, and then came the
                            reaction: a queer chill that raced over her body from head to foot. What
                            part would Olga Obosky play in the game?
                        The women congregated on the forward deck of the Doraine after supper that night. The evening repast  was no longer dignified by the word
                            dinner. The sky was inky black; not a star flickered in the vault above.
                            There were low, far off mutterings of thunder. The rail lanterns, few
                            and far between, threw their pallid beams down into the rippling basin
                            in a sickly effort to penetrate the gloom.
                        Captain Trigger and Mr. Mott, smoking their pipes on the makeshift
                            bridge, studied the throng of women in dour silence.
                        "I understand the farmers are praying for rain,"
                            remarked Mr. Mott, sniffing the air with considerable satisfaction.
                        "It would do no end of good," said Captain Trigger,
                            without taking his eyes from the chattering mass below.
                        Mr. Codge, the purser, joined them.
                        "What are they waiting for?" he asked. "Why
                            don't they call the meeting to order?"
                        "They did that half an hour ago," said Mr. Mott.
                            "Good Lord, man, can't you hear them talking? Have you
                            no ears at all?"
                        "But they're all talking at once."
                        "And why shouldn't they?" demanded the First
                            Officer. "It's their meeting, isn't
                            it?"
                        "I met Miss Clinton as I was coming up. She was going to her
                            room. I asked her how the meeting was getting along. I don't
                            believe she understood me, because all she said was
                            'good-night.' "
                        "I guess she understood you, all right," said Mr. Mott,
                            again sniffing the air. "Seems to me it's getting a
                            little nearer, Captain Trigger. There's a little breeze coming
                            up, too."
                        "A good thunder-storm," began the Captain, musingly,
                            but failed to complete the sentence.
                        
                        "Would settle something besides the dust," said Mr.
                            Codge, after a deferential wait of a few seconds.
                        A figure detached itself from the mass on the weirdly lighted deck below
                            and, approaching the perch of the three officers, came to a halt almost
                            directly below them. The light of a lantern fell fairly on the upturned,
                            smiling face of Olga Obosky.
                        "What is the hour, Captain Trigger?" she inquired.
                        "Almost nine, Madame Obosky.
                        "That is nearly two bells, eh, yes? How peaceful you look up
                            there, you three old owls."
                        "Come up!" invited the Captain cheerily. She joined
                            them a moment later. "Tell me, are they leaving a shred of
                            Percival and his band of outlaws?"
                        Mr. Codge struck a match and held it for her to light a cigarette. She
                            inhaled deeply and then expelled the smoke in what seemed like a
                            prolonged sigh of satisfaction.
                        "They are very funny, those women," she said, placing
                            her elbows on the rail and looking down at the crowd. "Do you
                            know what the trouble is now? It is this: they cannot think of a way to
                            condemn the action of those men as a body without also including Mr.
                            Percivail in the verdict."
                        "How's that?"
                        "Ninety-five per cent. of them want to exonerate Mr. Percivail,
                            but they don't know how to do it in view of the fact that he is
                            the guiltiest man of them all. That's why I say they are very
                            funny, those women. They approve of what he has done in naming the baby,
                            because whatever he does must be right, but they are almost unanimous in
                            charging that all the other men out there were wrong. So they are in a
                            great dilemma."
                        
                        Captain Trigger laughed. "I see. What was Miss
                            Clinton's position in the debate?"
                        "Oh, she was one of those who insisted that Mr. Percivail alone
                            be held accountable, the other men not at all. She was the chairman, you
                            see, and they were oblige to listen to her at first. But zen, presently,
                            one of those Brazilian ladies said it was a shame to put all the blame
                            on dear Mr. Percivail, who is such a gentleman and so splendid and all
                            zat, and zen then zat Mrs. Block jump up and say that if it was not for
                            Mr. Percivail her husband would have been killed last week when he fell
                            off of the landing into ten sousand feet of water. And the great
                            Careni-Amori she get up and say she would die for Mr. Percivail because
                            he is such a gentleman, and two of those nurses at the same time cry out
                            that he ought to be in the hospital because he is so worn-out working
                            for other people zat he can hardly drag his poor feet around. And so it
                            goes. Miss Clinton has departed, her chin in the air. But she does not
                            deceive me. She has gone to her room to have a good weeping."
                        "Well, I wish they'd get together on
                            something," growled the Captain; "so's we can
                            all go to bed and get a few hours' sleep."
                        "Like as not they're keeping the baby awake with all
                            this jabbering," said Mr. Codge. "And that
                            isn't good for babies, you know. They've got to have
                            plenty of sleep. Specially little ones."
                        "Will you tell me, Captain Trigger, why Mr. Percivail did not
                            come aboard tonight?" asked Olga suddenly. "They were
                            expecting him."
                        "And they were disappointed, eh?"
                        "I dare say. At any rate, a good many of them kept peering out
                            over the water most of the time,  and
                            listening for the sound of oars." She laughed softly.
                        The men chuckled. "Talk about strategy," said Mr. Mott,
                            "he's a bird at it. Keeps 'em guessing, he
                            does. By glory, I wish I'd known how to handle women as well as
                            he does. I might have been married fifteen or twenty times if I could
                            have kept 'em anxious and worried, but I couldn't. I
                            never did have any sense about women. That's why I'm a
                            bachelor instead of a grandfather."
                        "He told Miss Clinton he was coming," said Olga,
                            harking back to the unanswered question.
                        "I daresay he changed his mind," said the Captain,
                            rather evasively.
                        "I do not believe zat. There is some other reason. He is not a
                            woman, Captain Trigger."
                        "Well, to tell you the truth but don't let it go any
                            farther, Madame, he came aboard just before supper to find out how Mrs.
                            Cruise is getting along. Dr. Cullen told him exactly what all these
                            women down there know, that she's very low, so he went ashore.
                            Said something about not wanting to take part in any racket that might
                            disturb her, noisy talk, and all that, and left a bunch of wild flowers
                            for her in case she was better by morning."
                        There was a slight noise behind them. Turning, they saw the figure of a
                            woman in the shadow of the deck house.
                        "Who's there?" demanded Mr. Mott.
                        Ruth Clinton stepped forward into the light.
                        "Did he did he do that?" she asked huskily.
                        "He did," said the Captain.
                        "And is she so very ill? I did not know, Captain
                            Trigger."
                        
                        "She's likely to die, Miss Clinton, poor little
                            woman."
                        Ruth was silent for a moment. Then: "Do you think she she can
                            hear all that hubbub down there?"
                        "I am sure she cannot. But Percival was afraid she could, so he
                            well, he thought it best not to make it any worse by adding his groans
                            of agony when you women tore him limb from limb out here on deck.
                            That's the way he put it, so don't look at me like that."
                        Ruth suddenly hung her head and walked away. As she disappeared down the
                            steps, Mr. Codge remarked, sotto voce:
                        
                        "She isn't as rabid as she was, is she?"
                        "She's got it in for Percival ever since he took that
                            fall out of Landover," said Mr. Mott.
                        "Think she's er keen on Landover? He's a good
                            bit older than she is, twenty years or so, I should say."
                        "Don't ask me, Codge. As I was saying awhile ago, I
                            don't know anything whatsoever about women. They know all about
                                me, but, gosh, I'm worse than a baby goat
                            where they're concerned. There's no law against her
                            being in love with Landover, and there's no law against him
                            marrying a woman fifty years younger'n
                            himself if he feels like it. Now you take that good looking Russian over
                            there talking to the Captain. Who knows what's in her mind?
                            Nobody, sir, nobody. All I know is that Landover tried to "
                        "Sh! They've got ears like cats," cautioned
                            Mr. Codge.
                        " And she put him in his place so quick it made his head swim.
                            That's why he's got it in for her so  hard. He says she's not fit for
                            decent women to associate with. On the other hand, if she had been
                            willing to flirt a little with him, and so on, he would have said all
                            the other women were cats if they refused to take up with her.
                            That's a man all over for you, Codge. I hope Miss Clinton
                            ain't considering getting married to that man. He's
                            one of these here what-do-you-call-'ems? Er "
                        "Sybarites?" said Codge, who had picked up a good deal
                            from conversations with Peter Snipe.
                        "That ain't the word," said Mr. Mott.
                            "Now, I'll lay awake all night trying to think of that
                            word. Damn the luck!"
                        He fell into a profound state of mental concentration, from which he was
                            aroused a few minutes later by the swift and almost unheralded shower
                            that rushed up ahead of the thunderstorm. The rumble of the
                            "apple carts" in the vault above had suddenly become
                            ominous, and there were fitful flares of light in the blackness.
                        The indignation meeting broke up in a wild scurry of skirts. It is worthy
                            of mention that nothing definite had transpired. The speeches of the
                            ardent suffragettes from the wilds of London were all that the most
                            exacting could have demanded, for they covered all of the known and a
                            great many of the unsuspected iniquities that the masculine flesh is
                            heir to, but except for an introductory sentence or two they failed to
                            touch upon the object of the meeting. They all began with something like
                            "While I am frank to admit that Doraine is a very pretty
                            name," or "Notwithstanding the fact that Doraine is a
                            lovely name," or "If I had a child of my own, I should
                            not in the least object to calling her Doraine," and so on and
                            so forth, but they  cruelly abandoned the
                            baby in the next breath, leaving it to be revived by the ensuing
                            speaker.
                        The rain came just in time to prevent a vote being taken on a motion made
                            by Miss Gladys Spotts. She moved that a committee of three be appointed
                            to serve notice on Captain Trigger, et al, that it was the unanimous
                            sense of the meeting that the women should not only have voice and vote
                            on all public questions, but also representation in the official
                            government. She had learned that there was talk of electing a mayor, a
                            town clerk, a treasurer, a sheriff and a board of commissioners, and it
                            ought to be understood in advance that 
                        The torrent came at that instant, but it requires a very slight
                            stretching of the imagination in order to understand precisely what Miss
                            Spotts insisted ought to be understood.
                        It rained very hard all night, and thundered, and lightened, and blew
                            great guns. Not one, but all of the women, tucked away in their bunks,
                            wondered how those poor men were faring out there in that black and
                            lonely camp!
                        The next morning it was still raining. (In fact, it rained steadily for
                            three days and nights.) Betty Cruise died shortly after daybreak, and
                            with her death ended the controversy over the naming of her babe.
                        She was the first to be laid to rest in the burying-ground on Cape
                            Sunrise. Services were conducted on the Doraine by the
                            Reverend Mr. Mackenzie, assisted by Father Francisco. All work was
                            suspended on the morning of the funeral. Shortly before noon the entire
                            company walked, in a long, straggling procession, from the landing to
                            the spot three miles distant where the lonely grave awaited its
                            occupant. Careni-Amori  sang
                            "Lead, Kindly Light" and "Nearer, my God, to
                            Thee," at the graveside. There were tears in a thousand eyes,
                            and every voice was husky. To most of these people, Betty Cruise meant
                            nothing, but she was to lie out there alone on the wind-swept point, and
                            they were deeply moved. They all went back to work after the midday
                            meal, a strangely silent, thoughtful company, even down to the lowliest
                            "Portugee."
                        Mr. Mott, the gaunt old cynic, surprised every one, including himself, by
                            adopting the infant! He announced his decision on the day after the
                            funeral.
                        "That baby's got to have a father and a grandfather and
                            a mother, and all that," he declared to Captain Trigger,
                            "and I'm going to be all of them, Weatherby. It
                            ain't legal, I know, and I reckon I'll have to turn
                            her over to her proper relatives if they make any demand, provided we
                            ever get off this island, but while she's here she's
                            mine, and that settles it, and as long afterward as God's
                            willing. Chances are that no one at home will want to be bothered with
                            an infant that don't actually belong to 'em, so I
                            shouldn't wonder but what I'll have her always. What
                            are you laughing at?"
                        "I was just thinking that you didn't mention anything
                            about being a grandmother to her."
                        "Is that meant to be sarcastic?"
                        "Not at all," said the Captain hastily, noting the look
                            in Mr. Mott's eyes. "But for fear you may think it
                            was, I take it all back, Andrew."
                        "I laid awake all last night worrying about how lonely and
                            useless and unoccupied I'm going to be if we stick here on this
                            island for any considerable length of time, not to say always, and I
                            made up my mind that if I had that kid to bring up, life would be sort
                                 of worth while. I'll
                            probably live a good deal longer if I have something to live and work
                            for. Ain't that so?"
                        "It certainly is," agreed the Captain. "Do you
                            mind my asking how you're going to feed it?"
                        "I've got that all attended to," said Mr. Mott
                            calmly. "I've been to see three of these women
                            who've got tiny babies, and they've promised between
                            'em to nurse this one. It's all fixed, Captain. Of
                            course, I don't know how it's going to work out,
                            seeing as one of 'em is Spanish, one of 'em Portugee
                            and the other a full-blooded Indian, but they're all
                            healthy."
                        "It's very noble of you, Andrew," said the
                            Captain, laying his hand on the First Officer's shoulder.
                        "Absolutely not," snapped Mr. Mott.
                            "It's nothing but plain, rotten selfishness on my
                            part, and I don't give a damn who knows it."
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER VI
                        INSIDE of a fortnight after the events just chronicled, the women came
                            ashore to occupy the practically completed huts.
                        The Doraine was deserted except for Captain Trigger and
                            the half-dozen sailors who remained with him. These sailors were ancient
                            tars whose lives had been spent at sea. They were grizzled, wizened old
                            chaps. One of them, Joe Sands, had been an able seaman for forty-six
                            years, and, despite a perpetual crick in the back, he insisted that he
                            was still an abler seaman than ninety-five per cent. of the
                            thirty-year-olds who followed the sea for a living. When Captain Trigger
                            announced his resolve to stay on board, where he belonged, these
                            vainglorious old seadogs elected to remain with him to the end.
                        The exodus of women was hastened somewhat by the further listing of the
                                Doraine. This was due primarily to the removal of
                            thousands of tons from the holds, the galley and the engine room. A more
                            sinister cause for alarm, however, was the action of the greatly
                            lightened vessel when a tidal wave swept into the basin from the north.
                            This came at the tag end of the storm, on the third day, in fact. The
                                Doraine seemed actually to be afloat for a few
                            seconds, heaving, shuddering, groaning. Her bottom, after scraping and
                            grinding and giving up the most unearthly sounds, suddenly appeared to
                            have freed itself completely from the rocks on which it was jammed. She
                            seemed on the point of righting herself. Then she started to roll  over on her side! Almost as abruptly she
                            stopped, shivered, and then lay still again. But she was not in her old
                            position. She was lying over at least two degrees farther than before
                            the upheaval.
                        This same, tremendous tidal wave, driven up by the strong wind that had
                            blown steadily and viciously out of the north for three days, or perhaps
                            created by some vast internal convulsion of the earth, completely
                            inundated the low-lying point of land known as Cape Sunrise. At least
                            two miles of the island was temporarily under water. The high ridge
                            lining the shore alone prevented the sea from hurtling over into the
                            valley to destroy the fields and gardens and even to imperil the row of
                            huts along the opposite slope.
                        Out on Cape Sunrise the waters swept over the lonely grave of Betty
                            Cruise, but fell back baffled when they attacked the foothills that
                            protected the homes of the living. There were superstitious persons who
                            read meaning into this startling visitation of the sea. They made ugly
                            romance of it. For, said they, the lonely spirit of Jimmy Cruise was
                            trying to reach its mate, aye, striving to drag her body down to the
                            bottom of the sea to lie beside his own.
                        As the days went by, long days that were not governed by any daylight
                            saving law, the settlement took on the air and life of a sequestered
                            village. There was the general warehouse from which stores were
                            dispensed sparingly by agents selected for such duties. Women and men
                            went to market and carried home the provender. A fish market was
                            established; wood-yards, fruit and vegetable booths, a dispensary, and a
                            general store where leather, cloths of various description, and furs
                            were to be had by requisition.
                        In speaking of the dispensary, Dr. Cullen complacently  announced that the supply of medicine was
                            limited, but that it was nothing to worry about. He declared bluntly,
                            and with a twinkle in his eye, that people took too much medicine
                            anyhow.
                        "Medicine is a luxury," he said. "The more we
                            stuff into people the more they want, and the less they take the sooner
                            they forget they're sick. As your doctor, from this time on, I
                            shall be delighted to set your broken bones, sew up your gashes, and all
                            that sort of thing, but it is precious little medicine I'll
                            give to you. So don't get sick. The only epidemic we can have
                            here, according to my judgment, is an epidemic of good health. Am I
                            right, gentlemen?"
                        The two young American doctors put aside their dignity and grinned.
                        The wines and liquors from the Doraine were brought
                            ashore and locked away in the cellar beneath the ware-house. It could be
                            had only on the doctor's orders.
                        "It won't hurt any of us to drink nothing but water for
                            awhile," said Percival in discussing the matter; "and
                            the chances are we'll be less likely to hurt each other if we
                            let the grog alone. There'll be no drinking on this island if I
                            can help it. I understand some of you men are planning to put the pulp
                            of the algarobo through a process of fermentation and make chica by the
                            barrel. Well, if I have anything to say about it, you'll do
                            nothing of the sort. I know that stuff. It's got more murder in
                            it than anything I've ever tackled. We can make flour out of
                            that pulp, as some of you know, and that's all we are going to
                            make out of it. Besides, we can be decent longer on flour than we can on
                            chica.
                        "We'll find it harder to do without tobacco than
                            without booze, and unless we discover something to take  its place we'll be smokeless in
                            a few weeks. Professor Knapendyke is experimenting with a shrub he has
                            discovered here. He says it may be a fairly good substitute if properly
                            cured. But it won't be tobacco, so I guess we may as well make
                            up our minds to swear off smoking as well as drinking. I hope
                            there's nothing in the saying that the good die young. Because
                            if there is, we're in for an epidemic that will wipe out
                            four-fifths of our population in no time at all. We're going to
                            be so good we'll die like flies."
                        The weeks wore on and the fields of grain were harvested. The yield was
                            not a heavy one, but it was sufficient to justify the rather hap-hazard
                            experiments. The fifty-odd acres of wheat produced a little over a
                            thousand bushels. The twenty-acre oat-field had averaged forty bushels.
                            A few acres of barley, sown broadcast in the calcareous loam along the
                            coast, amounted to nothing.
                        Primitive means for grinding the grain had been devised. This first crop
                            was being laboriously crushed between roughly made mill-stones, but
                            before another harvest came along, a mill would be in operation on the
                            banks of Leap Frog River.
                        The exploration of the island had long since been completed. In certain
                            parts of the dense forest covering the western section there were
                            magnificent specimens of the Norfolk Island pine. Fruits of the citrous
                            family were found in abundance; wild cherries, wild grapes, figs, and an
                            apple of amazing proportions and exceeding sweetness. Pigeons in great
                            numbers were found, a fact that puzzled Professor Knapendyke not a
                            little.
                        He finally arrived at an astonishing conclusion. He connected the
                            presence of these birds with the remarkable  exodus of wild pigeons from their haunts in the United States in the
                            eighties. Millions of pigeons at that time took their annual flight
                            southward from Michigan, Indiana and other states in that region, and
                            were never seen again. What became of this prodigious cloud of birds
                            still remains a mystery. Knapendyke now advanced the theory that in
                            skirting the Gulf of Mexico on their way to the winter roosts in Central
                            America they were caught by a hurricane and blown out to sea. By various
                            stages the bewildered survivors of the gale made their way down the east
                            coast of South America, only to be caught up again by another storm that
                            carried them out into the Atlantic. A few reached this island, hundreds
                            of miles from the mainland, and here they remained to propagate. At any
                            rate, the naturalist was preparing to put his impressions and deductions
                            into the form of a paper which he intended to submit to the National Geographic Magazine as soon as he returned to the
                            United States.
                        The more practical Mr. Fitts decided to start a squab farm!
                        A few of the giant iguanas were seen, and many smaller ones. The meat of
                            the iguana is a great delicacy. There were no beasts of prey, no
                            herbaceous animals.
                        Lookouts on Top o' the Morning Peak reported the presence of
                            monstrous birds at rare intervals. Where they came from and whither they
                            went no one could tell. There were unscalable cliffs and crags at the
                            western end of the island, and it is possible that they had their nests
                            among them.
                        Lieutenant Platt described the first of these huge birds as being at
                            least thirty feet from tip to tip. It flew low above the top of Split
                            Mountain and disappeared  beyond the hills
                            to the west. When first descried by one of the lookouts, this bird was
                            far out over the ocean, approaching the island from the east. As it
                            soared over the heads of the men, several hundred feet above them, its
                            wings full spread, it was more like a small monoplane than a bird. In
                            colour it was a dirty yellow, with a black belly and head. Before any
                            one could procure a gun from the hut it was out of range, flying at an
                            incredible speed. A few days later another was seen, coming from the
                            same direction. It was flying much higher, and a few futile shots were
                            fired at it. Then, after a week or ten days without a single one of the
                            monsters being seen, five of them appeared in the west and flew eastward
                            over the island and out to sea.
                        "What was the name of that passenger-carrying bird they were
                            always talking about in the 'Arabian
                            Nights'?" inquired Platt.
                        "You mean the roc," replied Knapendyke. "If it
                            ever really existed outside of the fairy tales, it is now extinct. The
                            nearest thing to it in size is the condor, I suppose."
                        "I've seen some whopping big condors up in the
                            Andes," said Percival, "but twelve feet from tip to
                            tip was what the natives called a full-grown specimen. What do you make
                            of these birds, Flattner?"
                        "After seeing an iguana eighteen feet long, I'm ready
                            to believe anything, A. A. A protracted and an enforced spell of
                            sobriety is the only thing that keeps me from diagnosing my own case as
                            delirium tremens. There's one thing sure. Birds as big as
                            these, and iguanas as huge as the three we've seen, to say
                            nothing of the enormous flying fish Morris Shine claims to have seen,
                            take me back to the Dark Ages.  I daresay
                            we're seeing the tag end of the giants. God knows how old these
                            birds and reptiles are,hundreds of years, at least. I'd give
                            almost anything to get one of those birds and stuff him. There was once
                            a flying animal known as the pteranodon. It has been extinct for
                            millions of years. Belonged to the class called pterodactyls. Who knows?
                            If you fellows could shoot for sour apples, I'd have one of
                            'em."
                        Christmas and New Year's day, long since past, had been
                            celebrated in a mild, half-hearted way on board the Doraine. Easter was drawing near, and Ruth Clinton took upon
                            herself the task of arranging special services for the children. She was
                            going ahead with her plans when her aunt, with some bitterness, advised
                            her to consult the "King of Babylon" (a title
                            surreptitiously accorded Percival by the unforgiving lady) before
                            committing herself too deeply to the enterprise.
                        "It would be just like him to cut Easter out of the calendar
                            altogether," said she.
                        "He cannot possibly have any objection to an Easter
                            service," protested Ruth, her brow puckering.
                        "There's no telling what he will object to,"
                            said Mrs. Spofford.
                        "He is really quite tenderhearted, and awfully fond of children,
                            you know. I am sure he will be very much pleased with the
                            Besides," she broke off to say with considerable heat,
                            "Mr. Percival is not as high and mighty as he imagines himself
                            to be. Other people have something to say about the management of this
                            camp. You forget, and so does he perhaps, that we have a council of ten.
                            I rather fancy "
                        "Pooh!" sniffed her aunt. "He is worse than
                            all the Tammany bosses put together. The other men on  the council of ten eat out of his hand,
                            as Abel Landover says. His word is law, or, I should have said, his
                            smile is law. All he has to do is to grin and the argument is over.
                            I've never seen anything like the way people give in when he
                            smiles. It is disgusting."
                        "Please don't forget, Auntie, that he did not smile on
                            Saturday when Manuel Crust stopped him in front of the meeting-house and
                            said he was going to take Sunday off from work up in the woods. He
                            didn't smile then, did he? And there were a dozen men planning
                            to take the day off with Manuel Crust, too."
                        "I confess I was frightened," admitted Mrs. Spofford,
                            with a slight shudder. "That Manuel Crust is a a dangerous man.
                            He carries a knife. I saw it."
                        "Were your sympathies with Manuel Crust or Mr. Percival? Answer,
                            please."
                        "Naturally, my dear, I why, of course, they were with Percival.
                            He was one man against a dozen. Besides, he does
                            represent law and order. I have never questioned that, have I?"
                        "Weren't you a weeny, teeny bit proud of him yesterday,
                            Aunt Julia?"
                        "Weren't you?" countered the other.
                        "I could have hugged him," exclaimed Ruth, her eyes
                            sparkling. "I hate him, mind you, but I could have hugged him,
                            just the same."
                        Mrs. Spofford looked searchingly into the girl's clear, shining
                            eyes.
                        "I wish I knew just how much you hate him, Ruth."
                        "Be honest, Auntie. What you mean is, how little I hate him; isn't that so?"
                        "I don't believe you hate him at all."
                        "Well, the first chance you get, ask him how
                            much I hate him. He will tell you. Now let's talk about  Easter Sunday. I don't in the
                            least see why I should go down on my knees to Mr. Percival in order to
                            "
                        "Manuel Crust went down on his knees, didn't
                            he?"
                        "Don't be silly! Manuel Crust was leading a strike. I
                            am arranging a sacred entertainment."
                        "Still, if I were you, my dear, I would ask him what he thinks
                            about it."
                        "All right," cried Ruth, "I'll ask
                            him. And what's more, I shall ask him to sing in the choir. He
                            will love it."
                        Not only did Percival promise to sing in the choir, but he eagerly
                            offered to help her with the decorations. But when she announced that
                            she was going up into the hills in quest of the little red winter
                            berries that grew in profusion, he flatly put his foot down on the
                            project.
                        "I don't feel any too sure of Manuel Crust and his
                            gang," said he. "They're in an ugly mood and
                            they are brutes, Miss Clinton. Don't be alarmed.
                            They're not likely to molest you or any one else, but I
                            don't believe in taking chances. Just at present
                            they're pretty sore at me and they're doing all they
                            can to stir up discord. It will work out all right in the end, of
                            course. They may be beasts but they're not fools."
                        "Is it true that Manuel Crust claims that every man should have
                            his woman?" she asked steadily.
                        He was surprised by the frank, unembarrassed question. "Crust is
                            about as vile as they make them, Miss Clinton. Most of these fellows are
                            decent, however."
                        "But you have not answered my question."
                        "I will answer it by saying that if he has any such notion as
                            that in his mind he will have it taken out of him in short order if he
                            attempts to put it into practice. The women on this island will be
                            protected, Miss Clinton, if we have to kill Manuel Crust and his
                            followers.  It is true he has been
                            preaching that sort of gospel among the vicious and ignorant Portugees
                            and half-casts, but it's all talk. Don't pay any
                            attention to it."
                        "We can't help being worried. Suppose his following is
                            much larger than you think. They are a rough, lawless crowd, and
                            "
                        "Ninety-five per cent. of the men here are decent.
                            That's the only comfort I can give you." He smiled his
                            whimsical smile. "I think you will find that you will be
                            courted in the regular, old-fashioned way, and proposed to with as much
                            solemnity and uncertainty as if you were back at home, and it will be
                            left for you to choose your own husband. We have two ministers of the
                            gospel here, you know. I predict some rather violent courtships, and
                            perhaps a few ill-advised marriages, but you may rest assured that no
                            man is going to claim you until you claim him."
                        He was looking straight into her eyes. She felt the blood mounting to her
                            cheek, and was conscious of a strange, delicious sensation as of peril
                            stealing over her.
                        "You are most reassuring," she managed to say, scarcely
                            above a whisper, and then paused expectant.
                        Afterwards she was shamed by the exquisite pain of anticipation that had
                            coursed through her in that moment of waiting. She never could quite
                            account for the temporary weakness that assailed her and left her mute
                            and helpless under the spell of his eyes. She only knew that she waited
                            expectant, for something that never came! What she might have said in
                            response, what she might have done if he had uttered the words she was
                            prepared to hear, she did not care to contemplate, even in the privacy
                            of her own thoughts.  She only knew that
                            she was ashamed of the thrill that went over her and strangely bitter
                            toward him for being the cause of it. She would not admit to herself
                            that disappointment had anything to do with it, for she found herself
                            arguing, nothing could have been more distressing than to rebuff him
                            when he seemed so eager to help her in her plans for Easter Sunday.
                        The fact remains, however, that Percival held his tongue, and she never
                            quite understood why he did.
                        The time and the place of this encounter invited confession. There was a
                            full moon in the heavens, the night was still, the air crisp with the
                            tang of October in the north, and they were alone in the shadow of the
                            "tabernacle." Lights gleamed in the little windows
                            that stretched to the right and left of them. Far off somewhere in the
                            dark, an unseen musician was gently thrumming a fandango on his Spanish
                            guitar. She had been on her way home from Careni-Amori's cabin,
                            where she had gained the prima-donna's promise to sing, when
                            she saw him, walking slowly across the "Green." His
                            hands were clasped behind his back, his head was bent. She experienced a
                            sudden rush of pity for him, she knew not why, except that he looked
                            lonely and forgotten. It was she who turned aside from her course and
                            went out across the Green to join him.
                        "You are most reassuring," she had said. The dusky
                            light of the moon fell full upon her upturned face; her shadowy, limpid
                            eyes were looking straight into his; enchantment charged the air with
                            its soft and languorous breath, and yet he looked away!
                        After a moment he spoke. His voice was steady and, to her, almost
                            sardonic.
                        "The day of the cave-man is past. Likewise the  cannibal. I think I can promise that you
                            will neither be beaten nor eaten, but you do run a
                            little risk in being abroad on such a night as this, and
                            alone."
                        She stiffened. "I don't think there is the slightest
                            danger, Mr. Percival."
                        "I wasn't thinking of danger," he said.
                            "There is a lot of difference between danger and consequences.
                            You see, you might have been mistaken in your man. I might have turned
                            out to be Manuel Crust."
                        "I I I was sure it was you," she stammered, and wished
                            she had not said it. It was a confession that she knew his figure so
                            well that she could recognize it in the gloom of the night and at a
                            distance that should have rendered him almost invisible.
                        "Even so, I am Manuel's brother under the
                            skin," he said. "Like Judy O'Grady and the
                            Colonel's lady, you know. However, all's well that
                            ends well, so what's the use of magnifying the peril that
                            stalks through the land."
                        "You were brought up on the good, old-fashioned novels, I see.
                            That's the language of heroes, and heroes live only in novels,
                            where they are perfectly safe from harm, thanks to the benevolent
                            author."
                        "You're right. I was brought up among the old-fashioned
                            heroes. I lived through every adventure they had, I longed for every
                            girl they loved, I envied everything they did, and I dreamed the most
                            beautiful dreams about prowess and virtue and love. I rather fancy
                            I'm a better man for having been a swash-buckling boy. I
                            acquired the generous habit of falling in love with every heroine I read
                            about, and in my thoughts I performed even more prodigious deeds of
                            valour in her behalf than the hero to whom she inevitably plighted her
                            troth in the final chapter. In real  life,
                            however, I've never been in a position to do anything more
                            heroic than give up my seat in trolley-cars to ladies of all ages, By
                            the way, have you never longed desperately to be a heroine?"
                        "Of course, I have," she cried, smiling in spite of
                            herself. Her eyes were sparkling again, for the danger was past.
                            "And I have loved a hundred heroes, madly." She
                            hesitated and then went on impulsively: "We haven't
                            been very friendly, Mr. Percival. Perhaps I am to blame. In any case,
                            you have been very generous and forbearing. That is more than I have
                            been. I never thought I could bring myself to the point of saying this
                            to you. Can't we be friends again?"
                        He was silent for a moment.
                        "Do you mean to go back to where we were before Well, before we
                            clashed?"
                        "Yes, if you will put it in that
                            way."
                        "I can't go back to that stage," he said,
                            shaking his head. "You may have stood still, Miss Clinton, but
                            I have progressed."
                        "I don't know what you mean."
                        "You will, after you reflect awhile," he said.
                        She drew back, in a sudden panic. She spoke hurriedly, her composure
                            wrecked.
                        "I at least, Mr. Percival, I have done my part. If you do not
                            care to be friends, I I have nothing more to say. We must go on just as
                            we were, and I am sorry. I have done my part."
                        "I do not want to distress you," he said huskily.
                            "If I were to tell you why it is best for us to go on as we
                            are, you would lose what little faith you may still have in me. I have
                            not always been able to conceal my feelings. You do not care as I do,
                            and I  have been pretty much of a rotter
                            in showing you just how I feel from time to time, an ordinary bounder,
                            and God knows I hate the word, so there's nothing more I can
                            say without distressing and offending you. I want you to feel perfectly
                            secure so far as I am concerned. We are out here alone in the night. If
                            I were to let go of myself now and say what I want to say to you, well,
                            you would be frightened and hurt and, God knows I wouldn't hurt
                            you for the world. I hope you understand, Miss Clinton."
                        She had had time to fortify herself.
                        "Yes, I understand," she said, but not without a
                            strange wonder filling her mind.
                        He was fair, and yet he was baffling. She had not expected this rare
                            trait in him. Men she had known were not like this. The men who loved
                            her, and they had been many, were impetuous and insistent, demanding
                            much and offering everything, vain-glorious warriors who counted
                            confidently on easy conquest. She had come in contact with but one class
                            of men: the spoiled, cocksure sons of the rich who love in haste and
                            have it over with while there is yet time to love again. She caught
                            herself guiltily wondering how many men of her acquaintance would have
                            allowed this engaging opportunity to pass without making the most of it!
                            And why should this man be different from the others? She experienced a
                            sharp feeling of irritation, and out of that sprang the wilful desire to
                            hurt him because he was different. So she lifted her
                            chin, and looking straight into his eyes, said: "I understand
                            perfectly. You prefer that I should not put you in the class with Manuel
                            Crust."
                        "I'm not quite certain that Manuel's way of
                            handling women isn't the best after all," he said
                            musingly.  "Ride over
                            'em rough-shod, trample them under foot, kick them to one side
                            and then ask them whether they love you or not. If
                            they say they don't, all you have to do is to behave like a
                            gentleman and leave them alone."
                        She laughed. "But suppose they were to say they did love you,
                            what then?"
                        "That, I understand, is what they generally do say, and it
                            causes a great deal of trouble for the unfortunate gentleman."
                        "Are you never in earnest, Mr. Percival?"
                        "I was very much in earnest a moment ago. You knew how much in
                            earnest I was or you wouldn't have said that nasty thing about
                            Manuel Crust."
                        "I am sorry I said it," she cried. "It was
                            uncalled for, and I was deliberately trying to be mean."
                        "I knew it," he said quietly. "I
                            don't think any the worse of you for it. A woman plays fair
                            until you get her into a corner, and then she plays fairer than ever to
                            make up for what she did when cornered. Am I not right?"
                        She did not reply. She was staring past him, down the line of huts. The
                            door of Olga Obosky's cabin had opened and closed, projecting
                            for an instant an oblong block of light into the darkness. The figure of
                            a woman, emerging into the full light of the moon, had caught
                            Ruth's attention. Percival turned quickly. Together they
                            watched the figure move swiftly across the Green toward them. Suddenly
                            it stopped, and then, after a moment, whirled and made off down the line
                            of cabins, soon to be swallowed up by the gloom.
                        "Were you expecting some one?" inquired Ruth, icily.
                        He was still looking intently into the far-reaching  gloom. Neither had spoken for many seconds. He started,
                            and looked searchingly into her eyes.
                        "That was Madame Obosky," he said.
                        "I know. I recognized her," said she evenly.
                        "And you believe she was coming out here to meet me,
                            isn't that so?"
                        She drew herself up. "I shall have to say good night, Mr.
                            Percival. No! It is not necessary for you to walk home with
                            me."
                        He placed himself in front of her. "Would you mind answering my
                            question?"
                        "Yes," she flashed, "I think she was coming
                            out here to meet you. Permit me to pass, please."
                        He stood aside. "Good night, Miss Clinton."
                        He watched her until the door of her cabin swung open, and he smiled as
                            she stood revealed for an instant in the square of light, for she had
                            obeyed the impulse to glance over her shoulder.
                        She was angry, hurt, disgusted as she slammed the door behind her.
                        "Where have you been?" cried out an accusing voice, and
                            Ruth's gaze fell upon the figure in one of the deck chairs
                            beside the  "I have been waiting for you for
                            "
                        "How long have you been here?" cried the girl,
                            stock-still and staring.
                        "If Mrs. Spofford had not been so entertaining, I should say for
                            hours and hours," said Madame Obosky.
                        "As a matter of fact," said Mrs. Spofford from her side
                            of the fireplace, "it hasn't been more than an hour.
                            Madame Obosky came soon after you went out, dear."
                        "But but I saw you just now coming out of your cabin,"
                            cried Ruth blankly. She had a queer sensation as of the floor giving way
                            beneath her.
                        
                        "You saw Oh, now I understand!" cried the Russian, with
                            a laugh. "Zose girls of mine! Zey they are like so many
                            grandmothers. They will not go to bed until zey know I am safely tucked
                            in myself. Alas, Mrs. Spofford, zose girls do not trust me, I fear. If I
                            go out at night alone, zey instantly put their heads together and shake
                            zem all at the same time. So that is what has happen, Miss Clinton. One
                            of them, Alma, I suspect, because she had a sister who, Yes, it would be
                            Alma, I am sure, in any case, one of zem comes out to get me, so like a
                            policeman. But still I do not understand something. I have told them I
                            was coming here to see you. If it was one of my girls, why has she not
                            come?"
                        Ruth had turned away, ostensibly to pull down the little window shade but
                            really to send a swift searching glance out across the Green.
                        "She went the other way," she replied, rather
                            breathlessly.
                        Olga sprang to her feet. "Now, what is zat little fool up
                            to?" she cried, angrily. "If I catch her running out
                            to meet men at zis hour of "
                        Ruth interrupted her. "She started in this direction but when
                            she saw us, she turned and went the other way. I was talking to Mr.
                            Percival out near the meeting-house. About the Easter services,
                            Auntie," she made haste to say as Mrs. Spofford looked up in
                            surprise.
                        Olga was looking at her fixedly, an odd expression in her eyes, her lips
                            slightly parted.
                        "He has promised to help me. He is delighted to sing in the
                            choir. Madame Careni-Amori will sing two solos. She promises to make
                            Joseppi sing one or two.  I I was
                            discussing the arrangements with Mr. Percival."
                        "Now I understand," said Olga, gaily, but with the odd,
                            inquiring look still in her eyes. "Alma thought it was I. I
                            have zem very well-trained, those girls. She sees me with a man, zip!
                            She runs the other way as fast as she can! That is the height of
                            propriety, is it not, Mrs. Spofford?"
                        "I do not quite understand what you mean, Madame
                            Obosky."
                        "Why did he say it was you?" cried Ruth, hot with
                            chagrin.
                        Olga shrugged her shoulders. "He is so very amiable,"
                            said she. "I dare say he thought it would please you."
                        Ruth bit her lip. There was no mistaking the challenge in the
                            Russian's remark, however careless it may have sounded.
                        "I came to see you about Mr. Percivail's
                            birthday," said Olga, abruptly changing the subject.
                            "Some one has suggested zat we all join in giving him a grand
                            great big celebration. Bonfires, fire-works, a banquet with speeches,
                            and all zat kind of thing. What do you think, eh?"
                        "He wouldn't like it at all," said Ruth
                            promptly. "Moreover, why should we celebrate his birthday? He doesn't deserve it any more than scores
                            of other "
                        "Oh, then we must drop it altogether," broke in Olga,
                            rather plaintively. "I thought every one would be in favour of
                            it. But, of course, if there is the slightest opposition "
                        "I do not oppose it," said Ruth coldly. "Pray
                            do not let me upset your plans."
                        "It is not my plan. Zat nice, sarcastic Mr. Fitts,  and Mr. Malone, and Captain Trigger, they
                            have proposed it, Miss Clinton, not I. But men never quite get over
                            being boys. They do not stop to question whether a thing is right or
                            wrong. I dare say after they have thought a little longer over it, zey
                            will agree with you that it is foolish to be so enthusiastic about this
                            fellow Percivail, and the whole project will dissolve into thin
                            air."
                        Her hand was on the latch. She met Ruth's harassed, unhappy gaze
                            with her indolent, almost insolent, smile. Suddenly the American girl
                            snatched up her jacket and the little fur collar she had thrown across a
                            chair in the corner.
                        "If you don't mind, I will walk part of the way home
                            with you," she said.
                        Olga opened the door and looked out. "Thank you, I am not
                            afraid. Pray do not think of it, I cannot permit you to come. It is
                            late, and the moon is under the clouds. Good night, good night, Mrs.
                            Spofford."
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER VII
                        SHE quickly closed the door behind her and sped off down the line of now
                            lightless cabins. A man stepped out of the black shadow beyond the
                            second cabin and stood in her path. She did not pause, but walked
                            swiftly, fearlessly up to him, her heart quickening under the thrill of
                            exultation. He was waiting for her! He had been waiting for her all the
                            long evening. The time had come!
                        The night was dark now; a strong wind had sprung up to drive the black
                            and storm-laden clouds across the moonlit sky. She held out her hands
                            with a little moan of ecstasy, and then she was in his strong, crushing
                            arms, pressed fiercely to his breast.
                        "God, can I believe, is it true? You have come, you have come of
                            your own free will, you are here in my arms!" His hot lips
                            found hers in a wild, passionate kiss. "Speak to me! Tell me it
                            is all real, that I am not dreaming. Oh, Ruth, Ruth, darling!"
                        Her body stiffened. A convulsive shudder raced over her, and then, for an
                            instant, she was limp and heavy in his embrace. Then suddenly she threw
                            her arms about his neck and kissed him furiously, savagely, again and
                            again, breaking away at last with a low, suffocating laugh.
                        "Now, now," she cried, "now, what are you
                            going to do with me?"
                        He lifted his head with a jerk, peering into her face, slow to realize
                            the incredible mistake he had made. He was still under the spell of the
                            riotous passion that her  lustful response
                            had aroused. It had rushed over him like a great, resistless wave, hot,
                            delicious, tingling. He had been amazed, bewildered by the unbelievable
                            craving, furious and uncontrolled, which she revealed in her momentary
                            surrender to the elemental. The truth began to dawn upon him even before
                            she spoke. Could this be Ruth, could this unbridled, voluptuous wanton
                            who clung to him and smothered him with kisses be the pure, high-minded
                            girl he had grown to love and revere? She spoke, and then he knew that
                            the consuming fire in his blood was unholy, as unholy as the spark that
                            set it ablaze.
                        "Damn you!" he whispered hoarsely, but he did not put
                            her away from him. The lure of the flesh was upon him. It was stronger
                            than his will, stronger than his love.
                        For months this woman had beguiled him. There had been times when he was
                            compelled to fight himself, times when he asked: "Why
                            not?"
                        She was alluring, she was frankly a sensualist; but she was patient, she
                            was crafty. She knew that he was honourably in love with another, but
                            she was not deterred by that nor by the conviction that her conquest, if
                            she prevailed, would be transitory. She had a code of her own. It
                            included an uncertain element of honour, fixed rather rigidly upon what
                            she would have called constancy. Singleness of purpose was her notion of
                            morality. She would not have believed herself to be a bad woman any more
                            than she would have looked upon her lover as a bad man. To her, morality
                            in its accepted sense signified no more than the suppression of human
                            emotions and human sensations. As a matter of fact, she considered
                            herself a good woman if for no other reason than that she steadfastly
                                 had repelled the munificent appeals
                            of countless infatuuated men. Treasure had been laid at her feet, only
                            to be kicked aside. She calmly spoke of herself as a pearl without
                            price. She was content to possess, but not to be possessed. That was
                            what she called self-respect. She was a pagan, but she was her own idol.
                            She worshipped herself. She would never permit her idol to be
                            desecrated.
                        All this Percival knew, or rather sensed. He was not above feeling a
                            queer sort of respect and admiration for her. She was not without
                            integrity.
                        He had reached the pinnacle of happiness in believing that the girl he
                            loved was in his arms. He was blind and deaf with ecstasy. The awakening
                            was a shock. His senses reeled for an instant, and then Ruth Clinton
                            went out of his thoughts entirely!
                        "Damn you!" he cried again, and drew her close.
                            "She hates me, she will always hate me," he was
                            mumbling. "Why should I care? Why should I refuse to take
                            " Her lips were on his again, warm, firm, voluptuous, drawing
                            his heart's blood with the resistless power of a magnet.
                        They did not hear the rapid approach of footsteps heavy, swift as of one
                            running. A dark, panting figure raced past them, and then another but a
                            few paces behind.
                        Percival's senses were released. They cast off the bewitching
                            bonds. His head went up again. In a flash his brain was clear. His arms
                            were still about her, she was still lying close against him, but the
                            current of passion that consumed both of them was checked.
                        "What was that?" she gasped, as if coming out of a
                            dream.
                        He released her, and sprang out into the path to  peer fruitlessly after the unseen runners. The sound of
                            footsteps was rapidly diminishing.
                        They were suddenly aware of women's voices far away to the
                            right. They were indistinct but there was a sinister significance in the
                            ever-increasing volume.
                        "There's trouble out there," said Percival.
                            "Something wrong. Come, come along! You must get indoors at
                            once." He grasped her arm and started rapidly off in the
                            direction of her cabin. She stumbled at first, but quickly fell into
                            stride with him. Men's shouts were now added to the clamour.
                        "I know, I know," she cried in his ear. "It
                            has happened, just as I said it would. Some of these men are
                            beasts."
                        "Then, there's hell to pay," he grated.
                        They reached her cabin just as the door was thrown open. The three
                            startled coryphees filled the entrance. Recognition was followed by a
                            clatter of agitated voices. Olga was fairly dragged into the cabin.
                        "Bolt your door," was Percival's command as he
                            turned away.
                        She stood in the door for a moment, looking after him. He passed out of
                            the radius of light. The chorus of voices grew louder down the way, like
                            the make-believe mob in the theatre.
                        Then she closed the door slowly, reluctantly. The three girls watched her
                            in silence as she stood for many seconds with her hand on the knob, her
                            eyes tightly shut.
                        She turned and faced them. There was a wry smile on her lips as she
                            shrugged her shoulders and spread out her hands in a gesture of
                            resignation.
                        "Yes, bolt the door," she said. As Alma hesitated, her
                            eyes grew hard, her voice imperative. "Do  you know of any reason why you should not do as both Mr.
                            Percivail and I have commanded?"
                        "No, no, Madame," cried Alma hastily.
                        As the heavy wooden bolt fell into place, Olga again shrugged her
                            shoulders and threw herself into a chair in front of the fireplace.
                        "Put on your clothes," she ordered.
                        "What is happening, Madame? What is all the noise
                            about?" questioned one of the girls.
                        But there was no answer. Olga was staring into the fire.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER VIII
                        PERCIVAL'S blood was still in a tumult as he ran down the line
                            of cabins. From every doorway men were now stumbling, half-dressed,
                            half-asleep. Behind them, in many cabins, alarmed, agitated women
                            appeared. Farther on there were lanterns and a chaotic mass of moving
                            objects. Above the increasing clamour rose the horrible, uncanny wail of
                            a woman. Percival's blood cooled, his brain cleared. Men
                            shouted questions as he passed, and obeyed his command to follow.
                        The ugly story is soon told. Philippa, the fifteen-year-old daughter of
                            Pedro, the head-farmer, had gone out from her father's cabin at
                            dusk to fetch water from the little reservoir that had been constructed
                            alongside Leap Frog River a short distance above the cabins. The pool
                            was a scant two hundred yards from her home. It was a five
                            minutes' walk there and back. Half-an-hour passed, and she had
                            not returned. Her mother became uneasy. Pedro reassured her. He laughed
                            at her fears.
                        "She could not have fallen into the pool," he said.
                            "You forget the fence we have built around it."
                        "I am not thinking of the pool, Pedro," she argued.
                            "Go you at once and search for her. She is no laggard. She has
                            not stopped in to see one of the girls."
                        And Pedro went grumpily forth to search for his daughter. An hour later
                            he came staggering down from the woods above the pool to meet the dozen
                            or more friends and neighbours who had set out sometime  earlier to look for the two of them,
                            father and daughter.
                        He bore in his arms the limp, apparently lifeless form of Philippa. He
                            was covered with blood, he was chattering like a madman. Out of his
                            incoherent babble the horrified searchers were able to put together the
                            cruel story. It seems he had heard a faint cry far back in the dense
                            wood, another and yet another. Then utter silence. Even the night-birds
                            were still. Swift, paralysing fear choked him. He tried to call out as
                            he rushed blindly up from the pool into the forest, but only hoarse,
                            unnatural gasps left his lips. He fell often, he crashed into the trunks
                            of trees, but always he went onward, gasping out his futile cries. He
                            knew not how long he beat through the forest. He was not even sure that
                            it was Philippa's cry he had heard, but his soul was filled
                            with a great, convincing dread. He knew that his beloved Philippa, the
                            idol of his heart, the sunshine of his life, was up there in the woods.
                            Frequently he stopped to listen. He could hear nothing save the pounding
                            of his own heart, and the wheezing of his breath, thick and laboured.
                        Then, at last, during one of those silences, he heard something moving in
                            the darkness near at hand. Something some one was coming toward him
                            through the underbrush. He called out hoarsely:
                            "Philippa!" The sound ceased instantly, and then he
                            heard a whispered execration. Wild rage possessed him. He plunged
                            forward into the brush. Something crashed down upon his head, and he
                            felt himself falling forward. The next he knew, he was trying vainly to
                            rise to his feet. Something hot was running into his eyes, hot and
                            sticky. He lifted his hand to his head; it came away wet. He put his
                            fingers into his mouth,  and tasted blood!
                            It was enough. His strength came back. He sprang to his feet and rushed
                            onward, shouting, cursing, calling upon God! He had no recollection of
                            finding his girl. Apparently everything was a blank to him until long
                            afterwards he saw lights moving among the trees, and voices were calling
                            his name.
                        Percival and other cool-headed men were hard put to check the fury of the
                            mob. Men and women, bent on vengeance, made the night hideous with their
                            curses, howls and shrieks. In their senseless fury they prepared to
                            kill. They had heard the stories about Manuel Crust and his disciples.
                            Only the determined stand taken by the small group that rallied to
                            Percival's support kept the maddened crowd from seeking out
                            these men and rending them limb from limb. The sailors from the Doraine were the first to listen to the pleas of the
                            level-headed, just as they had been the first to demand the lives of
                            Manuel Crust and his gang. Individually they were rough men and lawless,
                            collectively they were the slaves of discipline. It was to their vanity
                            that Percival and the others appealed, only they called it honour
                            instead of vanity. The mob spirit was quelled for the time being, at
                            least. No one was so foolish as to believe that it was dead, however.
                            Unless the man guilty of the shocking crime was found and delivered up
                            for punishment, the inevitable would happen.
                        "We'll get the right man," said the voice of
                            universal fury, "if we have to cut the heart out of every one
                            of Manuel Crust's gang."
                        The women were the worst. They fought like wild-cats to reach the cabins
                            occupied by the known followers of Manuel Crust. With knives and axes
                            and burning  faggots they tried again and
                            again to force their way through the stubborn wall of men that had been
                            raised against them.
                        As for Manuel Crust and his little group of radicals, they had vanished.
                            They had mingled with the mob at the outset. There were many who
                            recalled seeing this one and that one, remembered speaking to him,
                            remembered hearing him curse the ravisher. But as their own names began
                            to run from lip to lip, they silently, swiftly disappeared.
                        Dawn found the camp awake, but grimly silent. No one had gone to bed.
                            With the first streak of day, the man-hunt began in earnest. All night
                            long the camp had been patrolled. Every cabin had been searched, even
                            those occupied solely by women. This search had been conducted in an
                            orderly, business-like way under the supervision of men chosen by
                            Percival. The folly of beating the woods during the night was recognized
                            even by the most impatient; there was time enough for that when the
                            blackness of night had lifted.
                        Throughout the long night, the restless crowd, with but one thought in
                            mind, hung about the cabin of Pedro the farmer. The doctors and several
                            of the nurses were in there. Down at the meeting-house a bonfire had
                            been started, and here were grouped the men to whom the leaders had
                            intrusted firearms and other weapons, men of the gun crew, under
                            officers from the Doraine, the committee of ten and
                            others.
                        It was accepted as a fact that two men were involved in the heinous deed.
                            Percival's account of the mysterious runners seemed definitely
                            to establish this. He called upon Olga Obosky to verify his statement.
                            If she was surprised by his admission that he was in her company when
                            the men rushed past them in the  darkness,
                            she did not betray the fact. She indulged in a derisive smile when he
                            went on to explain that it was so dark he had failed to recognize her
                            until she spoke to him. She agreed with him that the two men must have
                            come into the open a very short distance above them, having sneaked out
                            between the cabins before suddenly breaking into a run. Avoiding the
                            beaten roadway, they had laid their course twenty or thirty feet to the
                            right of it, keeping to the soft, springy turf.
                        Percival had issued orders for the entire camp to congregate on the Green
                            at the first sign of day. The cold grey light of dawn fell upon vague,
                            unreal forms moving across the open spaces from all directions. There
                            was no shouting, no turmoil, scarcely the sound of a voice. The silent,
                            ghostly figures merged into a compact, motionless mass in front of the
                            meeting-house. It was not necessary for Percival to call for order when
                            he appeared on the steps and began to speak. The only sounds were the
                            shuffling of feet, the rustling of garments, the deep, restrained
                            breathing of the mass.
                        He spoke partly in English and partly in Spanish, and he was brief.
                        "You know what we are here for and what is ahead of us. I
                            don't have to tell you the story of last night. You know it as
                            well as I. You will be glad to hear the latest word from Dr. Cullen.
                            Philippa is conscious. He thinks she will recover. She is having the
                            best of care and attention. I will explain why we are all here now. The
                            first thing for us to do is to count noses. We will go about it as
                            rapidly as possible. After that, we will get down to business. Mr.
                            Landover and Mr. Malone will check off the name of every man, woman  and child. As your names are called, come
                            forward, answer, and then move over beyond the corner of the building.
                            We've got to find out just who is missing, if any one is
                            missing at all."
                        He raised his voice. "I want you all to keep cool.
                            Don't forget that we are after the men who committed this
                            crime. We have no right to say that Manuel Crust or any of his crowd did
                            this thing until we have positive proof of the fact. It may not have
                            been any of Manuel's gang, don't forget that, people.
                            We must make no mistakes. I am saying this to you now because I see
                            Manuel Crust and some of his friends standing over there at the edge of
                            the clearing. Stop! Don't make a move in their direction.
                            We've all had time to think,we've all had time to get
                            ourselves in hand. There is a right and a wrong way to handle this
                            thing, and we've got to be sure we're right. The
                            guilty cannot escape. They haven't a chance, and you know it.
                            So, let's be sure, let's be dead
                            sure before we accuse any man. We have no right to charge
                            Manuel's gang with this crime. The guilty men may be here among
                            us, absolutely unsuspected. Chizler! You and Soapy Shay go over and tell
                            those men that we are taking a count of all the people in this camp.
                            Tell them to come and answer to their names. They will be
                            safe."
                        The count was never completed. Manuel Crust did not wait for his name to
                            be called. He pushed his way through the crowd, leaving his followers
                            behind. Advancing to the foot of the steps he cried out hoarsely to
                            Percival:
                        "If you want your men, I I, Manuel Crust, will lead you to one
                            of them. He is up there in the wood. Three men are guarding him. He is
                            Sancho Mendez,  the blacksmith. Listen, I
                            will tell you. It is the God's truth I tell. There were seven
                            of us hiding out there in the wood. We were scared. We heard our names
                            called out. We had heard the threats to burn us alive. We ran away. We
                            were not cowards, but still we ran away. We would wait till the crowd
                            cooled off. That was my advice. Then we would return, then we would help
                            to find the men who did it, and we would help to burn them alive. An
                            hour ago Sancho Mendez crawled out of the brush up there above the
                            landing and begged us to protect him. His leg was broken. He had fallen
                            over a log. You all know Sancho Mendez. He was a good boy. He was the
                            friend of Boss Percival. He was no friend to me. But he swears he will
                            be my slave for ever if I will save him. Then he tells us everything.
                            When I ask him why the hell he run away, he says he lose his mind or
                            something. He just go crazy, he says. He say everybody was chasing him,
                            he could hear them in the bushes, he could hear that girl screaming out
                            his name, and all that. He was going to jump in the water and drown,
                            because he say people tell him always it is the easy way to die. But he
                            falls down and breaks his leg, here below the knee. He cannot run no
                            more. It is all up. He is afraid to breathe. People are all around him
                            with knives and axes and clubs. He can hear them in the brush. Then the
                            daylight comes, and he sees us down below in the wood, and he says he
                            thanks God. I will be his friend, I will save him because I am an angel
                            from heaven! Bah! I spit in his face. We tie him to a tree with our
                            belts, and then I come down to tell Boss Percival we have his man, his
                            good and loyal friend."
                        "Stop!" yelled Percival, as the crowd began to show  symptoms of breaking away.
                            "Listen to me! I give you fair warning. I don't want
                            to do it, but, by God, I'll order these men to shoot the first
                            who tries to start anything. We're going to have law and order
                            here. This man Sancho is going to have a fair trial. What's
                            more, he had a companion. What does he say of the other man, Manuel
                            Crust?"
                        "Sancho Mendez says he was alone. There was no other
                            man."
                        Percival looked hard into Manuel Crust's bloodshot eyes. An
                            appalling thought had suddenly flashed into his mind. Many seconds
                            passed before he dared to open his lips. As if by divine revelation the
                            situation lay bare before him, the whole Machiavelian scheme as
                            conceived by Manuel. Sancho Mendez was to be sacrificed!
                        Even as he stood there speechless, the plan began to work toward its
                            well-calculated end. Manuel's friends started to harangue the
                            crowd. They were growling hoarse invectives, shaking their fists in the
                            direction of the wood, fanning the pent-up fury of the mob into a
                            whirlwind that would sweep everything before it. Once the tide turned
                            there would be no stopping it until Sancho Mendez was torn to pieces. He
                            would shriek his innocence into deaf ears. And that was
                            Manuel's game.
                        Percival's heart leaped with joy as he saw the armed force under
                            Lieutenant Platt move swiftly into a position barring the way to the
                            woods. He thrilled with a mighty pride in the shrewd intelligence and
                            resourcefulness of this trained fighting-man from the far-off homeland.
                        Manuel Crust was turning away to mingle with the  crowd. Quick as a flash, Percival was down from the steps
                            and at the "Portugee's" side. He grasped the
                            man's arm.
                        "I've got a gun against your back," he cried
                            in fierce suppressed tones. "Stand still and keep your mouth
                            shut, or I'll drill a hole through you. You're safe if
                            you do as I tell you, Crust. I'm onto your little game.
                            I'm not saying you are the guilty man, but you know who he is,
                            and it won't work."
                        Manuel Crust was as rigid as a block of stone. He did not even turn his
                            head to look into the face of the man who held him.
                        Michael Malone and Landover were at Percival's side in an
                            instant. From their position on the steps they could see what was not
                            visible to the crowd beyond, the revolver that was pressed against the
                            small of Crust's back.
                        "Cover this man," whispered Percival to Malone.
                            "Shoot if he opens his mouth."
                        Malone's revolver was jammed against the
                            "Portugee's" back, and Percival sprang back
                            up the steps.
                        Manuel Crust shot a look of surprise at Abel Landover.
                        "What the hell " he began, but choked off the words at
                            a command from Malone. While Percival was rapidly calling out orders
                            from above, he broke out recklessly again, addressing the stern-faced
                            banker.
                        "Are you my friend or not?" he snarled. "What
                            kind of a man are you? Speak up! Tell them I'm all
                            right."
                        "Keep quiet," warned Malone.
                        Landover's eyes met the searching, questioning gaze  of the Portuguese. Manuel Crust
                            apparently was satisfied with what he read in them, for a quick gleam of
                            confidence leaped into his own. His chest swelled with a tremendous
                            intake of breath.
                        The remarkable personality, or perhaps the magnetism, of the
                            "boss," again asserted itself. He made no allusion to
                            the thing uppermost in his mind as he spoke hurriedly, emphatically to
                            the tense throng. When he directed Randolph Fitts to take a few picked
                            men with him up into the woods to bring down the captive, there were
                            mutterings but no move on the part of the crowd either to anticipate or
                            to follow the detachment. A few terse words to Buck Chizler sent that
                            active young man after Fitts, the bearer of instructions. Sancho Mendez
                            was to be brought in alive. His guards were not to be given a chance to
                            kill him when they realized that the scheme had failed and he would be
                            allowed to tell his own story.
                        With the departure of Fitts and his men, Percival ordered the people to
                            return to their cabins. He promised them that Sancho Mendez should have
                            his just deserts. Slowly, reluctantly the crowd broke up and shuffled
                            away in small groups across the dewy Green. Manuel Crust was free to go.
                            The few words that passed between Landover and Percival, although
                            unheard by the man, sufficed to put courage back into his heart. He had
                            come to look upon the banker as his "pal"! And his
                            "pal" had not failed him!
                        This is what Landover said to Percival:
                        "Whatever may be in your mind, Percival, I want to say this to
                            you. I was in Manuel Crust's cabin when the thing happened.
                            There were eight of us there. I can point out to you the other six. I
                            must beg you to overlook the fact that we are not friends,  and believe what I am saying. It is the
                            absolute truth."
                        "I will take your word for it, Mr. Landover," said
                            Percival, after a moment. "I am aware of your dealings with
                            Crust and his crowd. I don't know what the game is, but I do
                            know that you have been fostering discontent, it may even amount to
                            revolt, among these men. If you say you were with Crust and that he was
                            not out of your sight all evening, I will believe you. You may be a
                            misguided, domineering fool, Mr. Landover, but you are honest. You have
                            failed to appreciate what you were stirring up, what you were letting
                            yourself and all the rest of us in for, that's all."
                        Landover flushed. He compressed his lips for a second or two before
                            speaking.
                        "My opposition to you as a dictator, Percival, hardly warrants
                            the implication that I am in a sense responsible for the devilish thing
                            that happened last night."
                        "I grant you that," said Percival.
                            "Nevertheless, it is your purpose to down me, no matter what it
                            costs, isn't that true?"
                        "No, it is not true. There is an honest, sincere belief on the
                            part of some of us that you are not the man to rule this camp. You may
                            call it politics, if you like, or revolt, if you prefer."
                        "We'll call it politics, Mr. Landover. It was not
                            politics that made me the superintendent of construction here, however.
                            I've looked after the job to the best of my ability. I am ready
                            to retire whenever the people decide they've found a better
                            man. You may be right in supposing that Manuel Crust is the right man
                            for the job, but I don't agree with you."
                        
                        Landover started. "Nothing is farther from my thoughts than to
                            turn the affairs of this camp over to Crust," he said.
                        "Once more I agree with you. But that is what you will be doing,
                            just the same. If you think that Manuel Crust is going to play second
                            fiddle to you, Mr. Landover, you'll suddenly wake up to find
                            yourself mistaken. You know what Crust is advocating, don't
                            you? Well, I guess there's nothing more to be said on the
                            subject."
                        "We will drop it, then," said Landover curtly.
                            "I merely want you to understand that Crust had no hand in last
                            night's affair. I can vouch for that."
                        "Can you vouch for each and every member of his gang?"
                        "I know nothing about his gang, as you call it. If I am not
                            mistaken, this fellow Mendez is one of your pet supporters. He may be
                            double-crossing you."
                        "We'll see. For the present, your friend Crust is safe.
                            As long as he lives within the law, he is all right. We're
                            going to have law and order here, Mr. Landover. I want you to understand
                            that. The best evidence that most of us want law and order is the
                            incredible manner in which these people have curbed their natural
                            instincts."
                        "No one wants law and order more than I," said
                            Landover.
                        "And I suppose Manuel Crust is of the same mind, eh?"
                        "So far as I know, he is," replied the other firmly.
                        Percival looked at him in blank astonishment. "Well,
                            I'm damned!" he said, after a moment. "Do you
                            really believe that?"
                        "It does not follow that he is an advocate of lawlessness and
                            disorder because he happens to be opposed 
                            to some of your pet schemes, does it, Mr. Percival?" inquired
                            Landover ironically.
                        "One of my pet schemes happens to conflict seriously with
                            Manuel's pet scheme, if that will strengthen your argument any,
                            Mr. Landover."
                        "I don't believe Crust ever had any such
                            thought," said the other flatly.
                        "We're not getting anywhere by arguing the
                            point," said Percival. He turned to walk away.
                        "Just a moment," called out Landover, after the younger
                            man had taken a few steps. "See here, Percival, I
                            don't want you to misunderstand me. If there is anything in
                            this talk about Crust, you know what I mean, and if it should come to
                            the point where stern measures are required, I will be with you, heart
                            and soul. You know that, don't you?"
                        Percival studied the banker's face for a moment.
                            "I've never doubted it for an instant, Landover. We
                            may yet shake hands and be friends in spite of ourselves."
                        Landover turned on his heel and walked away, and Percival, with a shrug
                            of his shoulders, set about making preparations to safe-guard Sancho
                            Mendez when he was brought in from the wood. He posted a number of
                            reliable, cool-headed men around the "meeting-house,"
                            many of them being armed. Arrangements were made for barricading the
                            door and the few windows. The prisoner was to be confined in the
                            building, a long, low structure, and there he was to tell his story and
                            stand trial. There was to be no delay in the matter of a trial.
                        "You will sit as judge, Mike," said the
                            "boss," addressing Malone. "There will not be
                            any legal technicalities, old man, and there won't be any
                            appeal,  so all you've got to do
                            is to act like a judge and not like a lawyer. We've got to do
                            this thing in the regular way. Try to forget that you have practiced in
                            the New York City courts. Remember that there is such a thing as justice
                            and pay absolutely no attention to what you are in the habit of calling
                            the law. The law is a beautiful thing if you don't take it too
                            seriously. Ninety-nine out of every hundred judges in the courts of the
                            U. S. A. sit through a trial worrying their heads off trying to remember
                            the law so that they can keep out of the record things that might make
                            them look like jackasses when the case is carried up to a higher court,
                            and while they are thinking so hard about the law they forget all about
                            the poor little trifle called justice. I guess you know that as well as
                            I do, so there's no use talking about it."
                        "I guess I do," said Michael Malone. "I live
                            on technicalities when I'm in New York. If it were not for
                            technicalities, I'd starve to death. And, my God, man, if we
                            had to stop and think about justice every time we go into court,
                            we'd be a disgrace to the profession."
                        Percival, Peter Snipe, Flattner and several others strode out from the
                            meeting-house and swept the long line of huts with serious, apprehensive
                            eyes. They had expected to find the people congregated at some nearby
                            point, ready to swoop down upon the prisoner the instant he appeared
                            with his captors at the edge of the wood. To their amazement and relief,
                            the people had taken Percival's command literally. They had
                            retired to their huts, and but few of them were to be seen, even on
                            their doorsteps.
                        "Can you beat it?" cried Snipe. "By golly,
                            boys, they've put it squarely up to us. It's the
                            greatest exhibition  of restraint and
                            confidence I've ever known. This couldn't have happened at home. Hello!"
                        The gaze of all was centred upon two persons who walked rapidly in the
                            direction taken by Fitts and his party. No one spoke for a few seconds.
                            Flattner, after a quick look at Percival's set, scowling face,
                            was the first to speak. To a certain degree, he understood the
                            situation. It was out of pure consideration for his friend's
                            feelings that he said:
                        "I'll go and head 'em off, A. A."
                        "Thanks, old chap, but there's no sense in getting
                            yourself disliked. I'll do it. I'm in bad already, and
                            besides I'm the one who gave the order."
                        Near the end of the row of huts, he drew alongside of Ruth Clinton and
                            Landover.
                        "The order was meant for every one, Miss Clinton," he
                            said levelly. "Am I to understand that you have decided to
                            ignore it?"
                        She stopped short and drew herself up haughtily. Their eyes met. There
                            was defiance in hers. She did not speak. Landover confronted Percival,
                            white with fury.
                        "I am capable of looking after Miss Clinton," he
                            exclaimed. "Your beastly officiousness "
                        "You will go back to your cabin at once, Miss Clinton,"
                            said Percival, ignoring Landover.
                        She did not move.
                        "Miss Clinton came out here at my suggestion," said
                            Landover. "If you have any more bullying to do, confine
                            yourself to me, Percival."
                        "I am not doing this because I enjoy it, Miss Clinton,"
                            went on the young man, still looking into her unwavering eyes.
                            "I am sorry it is necessary to remind you that there are no
                            privileged classes here.  You will have to
                            obey orders the same as every one else."
                        "Very well," she said, suddenly lowering her eyes.
                            "Take me back to the cabin, Mr. Landover. There is nothing more
                            to say."
                        Percival stood aside. They walked past him without so much as a glance at
                            his set, unsmiling face. Landover slipped an arm through hers. She did
                            not resist when he drew her up close to his side. Percival saw him lean
                            over and speak to her after they had gone a few paces. His lips were
                            close to her ear, but though his voice was low and repressed, the words
                            were distinctly audible to the young man.
                        "Ruth darling, I am sorry, I can't tell you how sorry I
                            am for having subjected you to this insult. God, if I could only help
                            matters by resenting it, I "
                        She broke in, her voice as clear as a bell.
                        "Oh, if I were only a man, if I were only a man!"
                        They were well out of hearing before Percival looked despairingly up at
                            the pink and grey sky and muttered with heartfelt earnestness:
                        "I wish to God you were. I'd like nothing better than
                            to be soundly threshed by you."
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER IX
                        JUST before sunset that evening, Sancho Mendez was publicly hanged.
                            Confessing the crime, he was carried to the rude gibbet at the far edge
                            of the wheat field and paid the price in full. He had been tried by a
                            jury of twelve; and there was absolutely no question as to his guilt.
                            His companion, a lad named Dominic, callously betrayed by the older man,
                            fled to the forest and it was not until the second day after the hanging
                            that he was found by a party of man-hunters, half-starved and
                            half-demented. He was hanged at sunrise on the following day.
                        Manuel Crust considered himself glorified. After a fashion, he posed as a
                            martyr. Some sort of cunning, as insidious as it was unexpected, caused
                            him to assume an air of humility. He went about shaking his head
                            sorrowfully, as if cut to the quick by the unjust suspicions that had
                            been heaped upon him by the ignorant, easily-persuaded populace.
                        Sentiment began to swing toward him. He and his so-called followers were
                            vindicated. It was his gloomy, dejected contention that if Providence
                            had not intervened he and his honest fellows undoubtedly would have been
                            placed in the most direful position, so strong and so bitter was the
                            prejudice that conspired against him. He was constantly thanking
                            Providence. And presently other people undertook to thank Providence
                            too. They began to regard Manuel as a much-abused man.
                        The burly "Portugee" haunted the cabin of Pedro  the farmer. He was the most solicitous
                            and the most active of all who strove to befriend and encourage the
                            unhappy father, and no one was more devoted than he to the
                            slowly-recovering girl. He carried flowers to Pedro's hut; he
                            did many chores for Pedro's wife; he went out into the woods
                            and killed the plumpest birds he could find and cooked them himself for
                            Pedro's daughter.
                        Presently he began to assert a more or less proprietary interest in the
                            family. It was no uncommon thing for him to issue orders to the nurses;
                            he hectored the Doctor; and on several occasions he went so far as to
                            offend such well-meaning ladies as Mrs. Spofford, Madame Careni-Amori,
                            Mrs. Block and others when they appeared at Pedro's cabin with
                            delicacies for the girl. And finally the people in that end of the camp
                            began to speak of Manuel Crust as a good fellow and a gentleman!
                        On Easter Sunday he stood guard over Pedro's cabin while that
                            worthy and his family went to the "Tabernacle" to
                            attend the special services. Two of the nurses were inside with the
                            girl, but outside sat Manuel, a grim watch-dog that growled when any one
                            approached.
                        The horror of that black night and the days that witnessed the wiping out
                            of Sancho Mendez and Dominic hung like a pall over the camp. Both
                            executions had been witnessed by practically all of the inhabitants.
                            Captain Trigger came ashore.
                        With set, relentless faces the people watched the two men go to their
                            doom. The women were as stony-faced, as repressed, as the men. Save for
                            the involuntary groans, and the queer hissing sound of long-pent breath
                            as the black-capped figures swung off into space,  the tremulous hush of intense restraint rested upon the
                            staring crowd.
                        Twice they came out to see men they had known and respected
                            "hanged by the neck until dead," and on neither
                            occasion was there the slightest manifestation of pity, nor was there a
                            single word of gloating. They watched and then they went away, leaving
                            the victims to be disposed of by the men selected for the purpose. No
                            shouts, no execrations, no hysterical cries or sobs, nothing save the
                            grim silence of awe. For these people, even to the tiniest child, had
                            ceased to live in the light of other days.
                        Peter Snipe, in his journal, wrote of that silent, subdued throng as
                            other historians have written of the rock-hearted people of Salem, and
                            of the soulful Puritans who grew heartless in the service of the Lord.
                        They stood afar-off and watched the small detachment of sailors carry the
                            bodies down to the basin, and every one knew that Sancho Mendez and
                            Dominic, heavily weighted, were rowed out to the middle and dumped into
                            a bottomless grave. Some there were who declared that their bodies would
                            sink for ages before reaching the bottom, and no one thought of Sancho
                            Mendez and Dominic without picturing them as gliding deeper and deeper
                            into the endless abyss of water.
                        Michael Malone's speech to the multitude on the shorn edge of
                            the wheat field was brief. He spoke from the scaffold on which Sancho
                            Mendez, the blacksmith, sat with a noose around his neck.
                        "This man has been fairly tried and he is being fairly punished.
                            There is no way to circumvent the laws of God or the laws of man on this
                            island, my friends. The guilty cannot escape. If we transgress the law,
                            we must pay in proportion to our transgression.  This man is to die. The laws of our homeland would not
                            have demanded the life of such as he, but they should,
                            my friends, they should. This island is small. It will
                            be easy for us to keep it clean, and we must keep it clean. We must not
                            live in fear of each other. The lion and the lamb lie down together
                            here; the thief and the honest man walk hand in hand. Our sins will find
                            us out. We cannot hide them. Remember that. In this little land of ours
                            there is nothing to stand in the way of the soundest principle ever laid
                            down for man. 'Do unto others as ye would have others do unto
                            you.' That is the Golden Rule. All we have to do is to observe
                            that rule and there will be no use for the Ten Commandments, nor the
                            laws of Moses, nor all the laws that man has made. We don't
                            even have to be Christians. 'Do unto others as ye would have
                            others do unto you.' That, my friends, is the law of laws. It
                            is the religion of religions."
                        "Soapy" Shay, sitting before the fire in his cabin a
                            few nights after the executions, held forth at some length and with
                            peculiar emphasis on what he called an exploded theory.
                        "As I said before, and as I've always said, not being a
                            drinking man myself, it's all bunk about booze being
                            responsible for all the crimes that are committed. Now here were these
                            two guys, Sancho and Dominic. Look at what they did, and they
                            hadn't touched a drop for months. I'm not saying that
                            licker is a soothin' syrup for a man's morals, but
                            what I am saying is that if a feller has got it in him to be ornery,
                            he'll be ornery, drunk or sober. I was tellin' Parson
                            Mackenzie only this morning that him and me both have good reason for
                            not touchin' the stuff, for different  reasons, of course, but I didn't see why other
                            people oughtn't to have it if they want it.
                        "With me, in my former profession, it would have been criminal
                            to touch the stuff. The worst crime a burglar can commit is to get
                            drunk. No decent, bangup burglar ever does it. I don't suppose
                            there is a more self-respectin' sort of man in the world than a
                            high-grade burglar. And it's the same with a preacher. He
                            can't any more preach a good sermon when he is lit up than a
                            burglar can crack a safe or jimmy a window if he tanks up beforehand.
                            The parson seemed surprised when I put it right up to him like that. He
                            said he'd never thought of it in that light before. Of course,
                            says he, a minister of the gospel ain't even supposed to know
                            what licker tastes like, and I says to him that's where we have
                            the advantage of him. We know what it tastes like, and we like it, and
                            we leave it alone because it cramps our style. He leaves it alone
                            because it's the style for preachers to leave it alone, and
                            because they'd go to hell if they drank like ordinary men. The
                            only place a burglar goes to if he boozes is jail.
                        "Well, as I was sayin', this here Sancho
                            wasn't soused when he committed that crime, and it all goes to
                            prove that these temperance cranks are off their base. Most of the crime
                            that's committed in this world is committed because the feller
                            wants to commit it. When I was up in Sing Sing once, sort of by
                            accident, you might say, there was a lot of talk about prison reform,
                            and pattin' the crooks on the back, and tellin' them
                            they could be just as good as anybody else if they had a chance. The
                            only chance them guys want, and keep lookin' for night and day,
                            is a chance  to lift something when
                            nobody's lookin'. That's all they're
                            thinkin' about while they're in the pen, and God knows
                            they're as sober as judges all the time they're there.
                            Crime is crime and you can't always lay it to booze.
                            It's human nature with some people. I'm not
                            sayin' the world wouldn't be better off if there
                            wasn't any licker to drink. It stands to reason that there
                            wouldn't be half so much bunglin' if people kept
                            sober, ' specially when it comes to crime. Now, if this guy
                            Sancho had had a couple of pints in him, everybody would be going around
                            preachin' about the horrible effects of booze, and What
                            say?"
                        "I said you make me tired," said Buck Chizler,
                            repeating his remark. "I never did anything wrong in my life
                            except when I was half-soused."
                        "Sure," agreed Soapy. "But you'd have
                            done it right if you'd been sober, my boy. That's the
                            principal trouble with booze. It never gives a feller a chance to do anything right." Whereupon, with a slow wink
                            for the other members of the group, he arose and passed out into the
                            night.
                        "I can't make that feller out," grumbled Buck,
                            uncomfortably.
                        Easter Sunday was bright and clear, following a fortnight of cold,
                            penetrating winds and rain. The sun smiled, but it was a cold smile that
                            mocked rather than cheered. The sky was the colour of thin, transparent
                            ice; the vast white dome was unspotted by a single cloud; the rose tints
                            of early morn, frightened away at birth by the chill, unfeeling glare,
                            took with them every promise of tenderness that dawned with the new day.
                            But, though the sky was hard, the air was soft; the tang of the salt-sea
                            spice lay over everything.
                        Percival had no active part in the exercises arranged  by Ruth. The song service was held in the
                            open. A platform had been erected in front of the
                            "tabernacle" (the meeting-house on occasion) for the
                            choir and musicians. There were no seats for the congregation. Every one
                            stood, bareheaded, in a wide semi-circle facing the platform. The
                            "boss" took his place inconspicuously among those who
                            formed the outer fringe of the assemblage. His gaze seldom left the face
                            of the girl he loved. Once her eyes met his. She was on the platform
                            discussing arrangements with the two clergymen when her roving,
                            unsettled gaze chanced to fall upon him. For many seconds she stared at
                            him fixedly, so fixedly, in fact, that Father Francisco, after a moment,
                            shot a look in the same direction. Even from his far-off post, Percival
                            saw the colour mount to her cheeks as she hastily turned away to resume
                            the conversation that had been so incontinently broken off. She was
                            bare-headed. He had been watching the sun at play among the coils of her
                            soft, dark hair, a glint here as of bronze, a gleam there as of gold,
                            ever changing under the caresses of that flaming lover a hundred million
                            miles away.
                        The affable Mr. Nicklestick was standing beside Percival, carrying on a
                            more or less one-sided conversation.
                        "You see, it's this way," he was saying,
                            contriving to reduce his far-reaching voice to a moderate undertone;
                            "I'm not in the habit of attending Easter services.
                            I'm not opposed to them, believe me, A. A., not in the
                            slightest. Now at home in New York, I make it a habit to walk from the
                            Metropolitan Museum down to the Valdorf-Astoria regularly every Easter.
                            Between eleven and twelve-thirty. You get them going into certain
                            churches and you get them coming out of 
                            others, don't you see? Oh, vat would I give to be on
                            Fif' Avenue at this minute, A. A.! A hundred thousand dollars,
                            gladly, villingly, yes, two hundred thousand! I vonder vat things are
                            like on Fif' Avenue now, at this minute, I mean. I vonder what
                            the vimmin are wearing this season. My God, don't you vish you
                            were on Fif' Avenue, A. A.?"
                        "What?"
                        "I say don't you vish you were on Fif' Avenue
                            now?"
                        "No, I don't," gruffly.
                        "You you don't?" gasped Nicklestick.
                            "My God, where do you wish you were?"
                        "Over in France, or better still, in Germany, that's
                            where I'd like to be. Keep still! Can't you see
                            Careni-Amori is singing?"
                        Nicklestick was silent for two minutes. Then he volunteered: "Do
                            you know what that song vould cost if she vas to give it in the
                            Metropolitan Opera House, A. A.? A thousand dollars, von thousand
                            simoleons. And we get it for nothing. It ain't possible to
                            realize that you can get something for nothing in these days, is it? I
                            vas saying to Morrie Shine only this morning that "
                        "Sh!" hissed an exasperated Brazilian in front of them.
                        "I guess ve better not talk any more, A. A.," said
                            Nicklestick, deprecatingly. Presently he leaned close to
                            Percival's ear and whispered: "Miss Clinton is looking
                            very fine today, isn't she?" Receiving no reply, he
                            waited a moment and then went on: "Landover is a very lucky
                            dog, eh?" Failing again, he was silent for some time. His next
                            effort was along a totally different line. "I've been
                            feeling some of the  people out in regard
                            to the election next week. I think it's a great idea. You got a
                            cinch, A. A. Nobody vants anybody but you for governor. What seems to be
                            "
                        "Sh!"
                        "Oh, you go to the devil!" addressed the exasperated
                            Mr. Nicklestick to the Brazilian. "Ain't we got
                            freedom of speech here on this island? Vell, then! What seems to be
                            troubling most every one, A. A., is who is the best man for clerk.
                            Nobody vants to be treasurer, for why? Because there ain't
                            anything to be treasurer about. Say, where are you going?"
                        "Nowhere," replied Percival, as he strode away.
                        Over against the line of trees on the opposite side of the wheat field
                            still loomed the gibbet from which Sancho Mendez and Dominic had stepped
                            blindfolded into another and darker world. While Pastor Mackenzie,
                            leading up to the glorious resurrection, was repeating the story of the
                            Crucifixion, Ruth Clinton, sitting behind him on the platform, stared
                            wide-eyed at this gaunt object, and she saw not Christ on the Cross but
                            the spectre of Sancho Mendez falling off into darkness.
                            Percival's gaze followed hers, and his heart smote him, for it
                            was he who had demanded that the gruesome reminder be left standing as a
                            warning to carrion. And he had laughed when Peter Snipe christened it
                            "the scarecrow!"
                        "Leave it standing, A. A.," Peter had said,
                            "and you can bet your boots no jailbird will ever roost on it
                            if he thinks twice. And it's just that sort of thing that makes
                            a man think twice."
                        But the look of dread in the eyes of this girl who could do no wrong, and
                            yet was to be everlastingly tortured by the sight of the thing that
                            stood as a silent  accuser of all who
                            looked, was more than Percival could stand. Easter Sunday, and that
                            gibbet pointing its long arm toward the little flock in the shadow of
                            sanctuary, mocking the good as it beckoned to the bad, Easter Sunday and
                                that!
                        
                        He stole quietly away, circling the edge of the crowd, his head bent, his
                            teeth set. Just as he was about to pass from view around the corner of
                            the "tabernacle," he cast a quick glance at the girl
                            on the platform. Their eyes met again. She turned her head quickly, but
                            he was certain that she had followed his movements from the
                        beginning.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER X
                        TOWARD the close of the exercises, the congregation was startled by the
                            sound of an ax smiting wood. The blows were rapid and vigorous. The
                            surprised people looked at each other first in wonder and then in
                            consternation. Who was guilty of this unseemly sacrilege?
                        Finally those on the edge of the multitude discovered the wielder of the
                            ax. Some one, not easily recognizable, was chopping away the supports of
                            the scaffold. The crowd grew restless; angry mutterings were to be heard
                            on all sides. Every eye was turned from the platform to glare at the
                            lone chopper across the fallow field.
                        Madame Careni-Amori, who was about to begin her second song, looked
                            helplessly at Ruth Clinton.
                        Ruth had recognized the man at once. At first she was annoyed, then there
                            surged over her a great, uplifting thrill of exaltation. She stepped
                            quickly to the front and, raising her clear young voice, reclaimed the
                            wandering attention of the throng.
                        "Please be quiet. Madame Careni-Amori is to sing for us once
                            more. Mr. Percival is knocking down that horrible thing over there. It
                            is right that he should. We do not need it there as a warning. Mr.
                            Percival has had a change of heart. He has been moved, tremendously
                            moved, by what he has seen in your faces today. That is why he is over
                            there now hacking down that dreadful thing. It is the skeleton at our
                            feast. We were conscious of its presence all the time. He is  over there all by himself cutting it down
                            so that our hearts may be lighter, so that this glad hour may end
                            without its curse. Please remain where you are. He requires no
                            assistance. He prefers to do it all alone. And now, if you will all give
                            attention, Madame Careni-Amori will sing for us."
                        Careni-Amori lifted up her glorious voice in song. The rhythmic beat of
                            the ax went on unceasingly; the powerful arms and shoulders of the
                            destroyer were behind every frenzied blow. As the last notes of the song
                            died away, there came the sound of splintering wood, then a dull crash,
                            and the gibbet lay flat upon the ground. Some one uttered an involuntary
                            shout. As Percival turned from his completed work and wiped the sweat
                            from his brow with his bare forearm, he found the gaze of the entire
                            company fastened upon him. Then there came to his ears the clapping of
                            hands, then the shrill clamour of voices raised in approbation. Swinging
                            the ax on high, he buried its blade deep in the fallen timber and left
                            it imbedded there. Snatching up his coat from a nearby stump, he waved
                            his hand to the crowd and then, whirling, was quickly lost among the
                            trees that lined the shore.
                        Landover walked beside the thoughtful Ruth as she crossed the Green on
                            her way home. He studied her lovely profile out of the corner of his
                            eye. As they drew away from the dispersing throng, he spoke to her.
                        "If money were of any value here in this God-forsaken spot, I
                            would offer considerably more than a penny for your thoughts,
                            Ruth."
                        She started slightly. "You couldn't buy them, Mr.
                            Landover. They are not for sale at any price."
                        "I suppose there is no harm in venturing a guess,  however. You will give me one guess,
                            won't you?"
                        "All the guesses you like, free of charge," she
                            rejoined airily.
                        "You are trying to decide whether or not it was all done for
                            effect."
                        She smiled mysteriously, looking straight ahead. Her eyes were very
                            bright.
                        "You are wrong. I was thinking about hats, Mr. Landover.
                            Don't you know that every woman's thoughts run to hats
                            on Easter?"
                        "I confess I had a better opinion of him," he said,
                            disregarding her flippancy. "I don't like him, but
                            I've never suspected him of being a stupid ass
                            before."
                        "Of whom are you speaking?" she inquired, suddenly
                            looking him full in the eye.
                        "Our mutual friend, the enemy," he replied.
                        "Mr. Percival?"
                        "Certainly."
                        "But I thought he was beneath our notice."
                        "We can't very well help noticing him when he goes to
                            such extreme lengths to attract attention."
                        "You think he did it to attract attention?"
                        "Not so much that, perhaps, as to get back into the lime-light.
                            You see, he was rather out of it for as much as half an hour, and he
                            simply couldn't stand it. So he went off and staged a little
                            sideshow of his own."
                        She walked on in silence for a few moments, torn by doubts and
                            misgivings. Landover's sarcastic analysis was like a douche of
                            cold water. Perhaps he was right. It had been a spectacular, not to say
                            diverting, exhibition. Her eyes darkened. An expression of pain lurked
                            in them.
                        
                        "I can't believe it of him, Mr. Landover," she
                            said at last, in a slightly muffled voice.
                        "I thought it was understood you were to call me Abel, my
                            dear."
                        "If he did it deliberately, and with that motive, it was
                            unspeakable," she went on, a faint furrow appearing between her
                            eyes.
                        "Of course, I may be wrong," said he magnanimously.
                            "It may have been the result of an honest, uncontrollable
                            impulse. But I doubt it."
                        "Men do queer, strange things when under the influence of a
                            strong emotion," she said, a hopeful note in her voice.
                        "True. They are also capable of doing very base things. You
                            don't for an instant suspect Percival of being a religious
                            fanatic, do you?"
                        "Please don't sneer. And what, pray, has religion to do
                            with it?"
                        "I dare say Morris Shine is again lamenting the absence of a
                            motion picture camera. He is always complaining about the chances he has
                            missed to "
                        "Stop!"
                        "Why, Ruth dear, I "
                        "We have no right to judge him, Mr. Landover."
                        "Are you defending him?"
                        "I don't believe he had the faintest notion that he was
                            being theatrical, as you call it. I am sure he did it because he was
                            moved by an overpowering desire to make all of us happy. He
                            couldn't bear the thought of that evil thing out there,
                            pointing at us while we worshipped and tried to sing with gladness in
                            our hearts. No! He did it for you, and for me, and for all the rest of
                            us, and he made every heart lighter when that thing toppled over and
                            fell. Did you not  see the change that
                            came over every one when they realized that it was destroyed? There were
                            smiles on every face, and every voice was cheerful. The look of uneasy
                            dread was gone Oh, you must have seen."
                        "I can only say that it ought to have been done before, Ruth,
                            not during the exercises."
                        "It was his way of publicly admitting he was wrong in insisting
                            that it should remain."
                        "He had his way with that weak-kneed committee, as usual. The
                            tactics of that Copperhead Camp he talks so much about are hardly
                            applicable to conditions here. We are not law-defying ruffians, you
                            know, and these are women of quite another order."
                        "No one, not even you, Mr. Landover, can say that he has been
                            anything but kind and considerate and sympathetic," she
                            flashed. "He is firm, but isn't that what we want? And
                            the people worship him, they will do anything for him. Even Manuel Crust
                            respects him, and obeys him. And you, down in your heart, respect him.
                            He is your kind of a man, Mr. Landover. He does things. He is like
                            Theodore Roosevelt. He does things."
                        Landover smiled grimly. "Perhaps that is why I dislike
                            him."
                        "Because he is like Roosevelt?"
                        "My dear, let's not start an argument about
                            Roosevelt."
                        "Just the same, I've heard you say over and over again
                            that you wish Roosevelt were President now," she persisted.
                            "Why do you say that if you are so down on him?"
                        Landover shrugged his shoulders expressively.
                        "I can wish that, my dear, and still not be an admirer of Mr.
                            Roosevelt," he replied. "But to return  to Percival, isn't it quite
                            plain to you that he was pouting like a schoolboy because he had not
                            been asked to take part in today's exercises?"
                        "He was asked to take part in them. I asked him
                            myself."
                        He glanced at her sharply. "You never told me you had asked him,
                            Ruth."
                        "The night the crime was committed," she said briefly.
                            "He was very nice about it. He promised to sing in the choir
                            and and to help me with the decorations. After our unpleasant experience
                            the next day, he had the shall we say tact or kindness? to reconsider
                            his promise."
                        "Openly advertising the fact that he preferred to have no part
                            in any entertainment you were arranging," was
                            Landover's comment. "I don't believe it was
                            because of any particular delicacy of feeling on his part, my dear. In
                            any case, the fact remains that he let you go ahead with the affair, and
                            then, bang! right in the middle of it he stages his cheap, melodramatic,
                            moving-picture act. Bosh!"
                        She turned on him with blazing eyes.
                        "You will not see anything good in him, will you? You
                            can't be fair, can you? Well, I can be, and I am. He has been
                            fair with both of us, and I am ashamed of the way I have treated him. We
                            deserved his rebuke that morning, and he did not hesitate to turn us
                            back, although he realized what it would mean. He loves me, Abel
                            Landover, he loves me a thousand times more than you do, in spite of all
                            your protestations. He "
                        "Why, Ruth, I I "
                        "Yes, I know, I know you are shocked. And I don't care,
                            do you understand? I don't care that!
                             You want your answer, Mr. Landover. Well,
                            you shall have it now. I cannot marry you. This is final."
                        The blood left his face. "You don't know what you are
                            saying, Ruth," he exclaimed. "You are angry. When you
                            have had time to "
                        "I've had all the time I need," she
                            interrupted shortly. "I don't want to be disagreeable,
                            but it's no use, Mr. Landover. I do not love you. I am sorry if
                            I have misled you into hoping. There is nothing more to be
                            said."
                        "You have misled me," he cried out
                            bitterly.
                        "I am to blame, I suppose, for not giving you your answer before
                            this. I have temporized. It is a woman's trick, and a horrid
                            one, I'll admit. I have never even thought of marrying
                            you."
                        "Are you in love with Percival?" he demanded.
                        "Yes, I think I am," she replied, looking him straight
                            in the eye. She spoke with a sort of gasp, as if releasing a confession
                            that surprised even herself.
                        "My God, Ruth, I can't believe it," he
                            groaned.
                        "I have denied it to myself oh, a thousand times, I've
                            fought against it. I've tried to hate him. I've done
                            everything in my power to make him believe that I despise him. But
                            it's no use, it's no use. I I can't think of
                            anything else. I can't think of any one else. Oh, I know I am
                            quite mad to say this, but I sometimes find myself praying that we may
                            never be rescued. It might mean well, you can see what it might mean.
                            Thank God, you have driven me to this confession. It is the first time I
                            have been really honest with myself. I have lied to myself over and over
                            again about my feeling toward him. I have lain awake for hours at night
                            lying to myself telling myself that  I
                            hate him and always will hate him. Now, it's out, the truth is
                            out. I have never hated him, I have cared for him from the very
                            beginning."
                        She spoke rapidly, the words rushing forth like a flood suddenly released
                            after breaking through the dam, sweeping everything before it,
                            resistless, devastating, cruelly rapturous. She thought nothing of the
                            hurt she was inflicting upon the man beside her; he was an atom in the
                            path of the torrent, a thing that went down and was left behind as the
                            flood swept over and by him. As suddenly as it began the torrent was
                            checked. A hot flush seared her neck, her cheeks, her brow.
                        "What a fool you must think me!" she cried in dire
                            chagrin. "What a stupid fool!"
                        He had not taken his eyes from her transfigured face. He had listened
                            with his jaw set, his lips tightly pressed, his brow dark with anger.
                        "I don't think that," he said shortly.
                            "You have merely lost your head, as any woman might, over a
                            picturesque, good-looking soldier of fortune. Perhaps I should not be
                            surprised, nor even shocked by what you've just told me. He is
                            the sort that women do fall in love with, and I
                            suppose they are not to be blamed for it. No, I do not think you are a
                            fool. When one reflects that such experienced heads as those possessed
                            by the irreproachable Obosky, the immaculate Amori, to say nothing of
                            the estimable lady we are pleased to call the 'Empress of
                            Brazil,' when such heads as theirs are turned by a man it is
                            high time to admit that he has something more than personal magnetism. I
                            am wondering how far the contagion has really spread. There is a
                            difference between contagion and infection, you know. Infection is the
                            result of personal contact, contagion is something in  the air. This epidemic of infatuation
                            very plainly is in two forms. It appears to be both infectious and
                            contagious. I rather fancy the amiable Obosky has selected the former
                            type of the prevailing malady. Percivalitis, I believe, is the name it
                            goes by."
                        There was no mistaking the significance of his words. The implication was
                            clear, even though veiled in the heaviest sarcasm. He had the
                            satisfaction of seeing the colour ebb from her cheek. Her face being
                            averted, he missed the swift flicker of pain that rushed to her eyes
                            and, departing, took away with it the soft light that had glowed in them
                            the instant before. He had touched a concealed canker, the sensitive
                            spot that had been the real cause of her sleepless, troubled nights, the
                            thing she had refused in her pride to accept as the real source of
                            discomfort.
                        Down in her soul lay the poison of jealousy, a cruel and malignant
                            influence that until now had been subdued by a mind stubbornly unwilling
                            to recognize its existence.
                        In the eagerness to supply herself with additional reasons for hating
                            Percival, she had given her imagination a rather free rein in regard to
                            his relations with Olga Obosky. While she was without actual proof, she
                            nevertheless tortured herself with suspicions that came almost to the
                            same thing; in any case, they had the desired effect in that they
                            created a very positive sense of irritation, and nothing seemed to
                            please her more in the dead hour of night than the feeling that she had
                            a right to be disgusted with him.
                        And now, Landover, in his sly arraignment, prodded a very live, raw spot,
                            and she knew that it was bleak unhappiness and not rancour that had kept
                            her awake.
                        "Is it necessary to beat about the bush, Mr. Landover?  If you have anything definite to tell me
                            about Mr. Percival and Madame Obosky, I grant you permission to say all
                            you have to say in the plainest language. Call a spade a spade. I am
                            quite old enough to hear things called by their right names."
                        "Since you have been so quick to get my meaning, I
                            don't consider it necessary to go into details. I dare-say you
                            have ears and eyes of your own. You can see and hear as well as I,
                            unless you are resolved to be both blind and deaf."
                        "Did you not hear me say that I know he loves
                            me?"
                        "Yes, I heard you quite distinctly."
                        "As a rule, do men love two women at the same time?"
                            she inquired, patiently.
                        "I have never said that he loves Obosky. It is barely possible,
                            however, that he may not choose to resist her, if that conveys anything
                            to your intelligence."
                        "It does and it does not," she replied steadily.
                            "You see, I believe in him. I trust him."
                        "And I suppose you trust Olga Obosky," he said, with a
                            sneer.
                        "I understand Olga Obosky far better than you do, Mr.
                            Landover."
                        "I doubt it," said he drily.
                        "She is my friend."
                        "Ah! That measurably simplifies the situation. She will no doubt
                            prove her friendship by delivering Mr. Percival to you, slightly damaged
                            but guaranteed to "
                        "Please be good enough to remember, Mr. Landover, that you are
                            not speaking to Manuel Crust," she  exclaimed haughtily, and, with flaming cheeks, swept past him.
                        He hesitated a moment, and then started to follow her. She stopped short
                            and, facing him, cried out: "Don't follow me! I do not
                            want to hear another word. Stop! I can see by your eyes that you are
                            ashamed, you want to apologize. I do not want to hear it. I am hurt,
                            terribly hurt. Nothing you can say will help matters now, Mr.
                            Landover."
                        "Just a second, Ruth," he cried, now thoroughly
                            dismayed. "Give me a chance to explain. It was my mad,
                            unreasoning love that "
                        But, with an exclamation of sheer disgust, she put her fingers to her
                            ears and sped rapidly down the walk. He stood still, watching her until
                            she entered the cabin door and closed it behind her. Then he completed
                            the broken sentence, but not in the voice of humility nor with the words
                            that he had intended to utter.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XI
                        "SOAPY" SHAY, coming up the walk, distinctly heard what
                            he said.
                        "What's the matter, Bill?" he inquired,
                            pausing. "Did she throw the hooks into you?"
                        Landover glared at him balefully. "You go to hell, damn
                            you," he snarled, and walked away.
                        "Soapy" rubbed his chin dubiously as he watched the
                            retreating figure. Pursing his thin lips, he turned his attention to an
                            unoffending stump six or eight feet away and scowled at it vindictively.
                            He was turning something over in his mind, and he was manifestly in a
                            state of indecision. Ruminating, he spoke aloud, perhaps for the benefit
                            of a Portuguese farm-hand who happened to be approaching from the
                            opposite direction, but who still had some rods to cover before he was
                            within hearing distance.
                        "Gee, he's getting to be as decent and democratic as
                            any of us. Shows what association will do for a man. Two months ago he
                            would have been too high and mighty to tell me to go to hell. If he
                            keeps on at this rate, he'll be worth payin' attention
                            to in a couple of months more. Won't he, Bill?" This
                            to the farm-hand, who obligingly halted.
                        Mr. Shay made constant and impartial use of the name Bill. Except in a
                            very few instances, he applied it to all males over the age of two, and
                            he did it so genially that resentment was rare. Americans, Britons,
                            Irishmen, Portuguese, Spaniards, Indians, Swedes, all races, in fact,
                            except the Hebrew, came under  the sweeping
                            appellation. His Hebrew acquaintances were addressed by the name of Ike.
                        It so happened that this particular "Bill" was
                            lamentably slow in picking up the English language. It was even said
                            that he prided himself on being half-witted. However, being an
                            exceedingly dull creature, he was quite naturally a polite one. He was a
                            good listener. You could speak English to him by the hour and never be
                            annoyed by verbal interruptions. At regular intervals he would insert a
                            shrug of the shoulders, or nod his head, or lift an eye-brow, or spread
                            out his hands, or purse his lips, and he never smiled unless you did.
                        Perceiving that some sort of an answer was expected,
                            "Bill" wisely shrugged his shoulders.
                            "Soapy" interpreted the shrug as affirmative, having a
                            distinct advantage over "Bill," who hadn't
                            the faintest idea which it was, and proceeded to go a little deeper into
                            the matter.
                        "Now, as I was saying, this Landover guy is up against
                            something, Bill. She handed him something he didn't like. Right
                            on the nose, too, if I'm any judge. What do you suppose it was,
                            Bill?"
                        "Bill" nodded his head very earnestly.
                        "That's what I think," said
                            "Soapy," fixing his hearer with a moody, speculative
                            frown. "Now, I know something about this Landover guy that she
                            don't know. I suppose A. A. will give me an awful panning if I
                            up and tell her what I saw that day. He seems to think it's a
                            secret."
                        There was a slight pause, suggesting to "Bill" that he
                            ought to frown as if also in doubt.
                        "At the same time, I think she ought to be told, don't
                            you, Bill?"
                        
                        This called for something definite. So Bill scratched his left ear.
                        "In the first place, she's too nice a girl to be
                            hitched up with a Priscilla like him. Now, I don't know what
                            happened here a couple of minutes ago, but it looks to me as if she
                            needs a little moral support. It strikes me that this would be a good
                            time to tell her. What do you think about it, Bill?"
                        Always on the lookout for rising inflections, "Bill"
                            was ever in a position to give prompt replies. He could dispose of the
                            most profound questions almost before they were out of the
                            speaker's mouth. His answer to
                            "Soapy's" query was a broad grin, for he had
                            detected a sly twinkle in the speaker's eye. He also shrugged
                            his shoulders and spread out his hands, and, to clinch the matter, he
                            winked.
                        "Now, I don't want to take this important step without
                            being backed-up by some clever, intelligent feller like you,
                            Bill," went on "Soapy."
                            "It's all for her good, and A. A.'s, too,
                            although he won't see it in that light. If you say you think
                            she ought to be told, that's enough for me. If you say she
                            oughtn't, why, nothing doing. It's up to you,
                            Bill."
                        "Bill" was plainly at sea. You can't decide a
                            question that lacks an interrogation point. So all that
                            "Bill" could do was to stare-blankly at
                            "Soapy" and wait for something tangible to turn up.
                            Mr. Shay suddenly appreciated the poor fellow's dilemma and
                            supplied the necessary relief.
                        "What say, Bill?"
                        Whereupon "Bill" started to shake his head, but,
                            catching the scowl of disapproval on
                            "Soapy's" brow, hastily changed his reply to
                            a vigorous nod.
                        
                        "Good!" exclaimed Mr. Shay. "That completely
                            clears my conscience. So long, Bill."
                        And half a minute later he presented himself at Ruth Clinton's
                            cabin.
                        "Goodness!" exclaimed Mrs. Spofford, as she opened the
                            door. She also opened her eyes very wide, and sent a startled,
                            apprehensive glance over her shoulder into the warm, fire-lit interior.
                            "What do you want?" she demanded querulously of the
                            unexpected visitor.
                        Mr. Shay took off his hat. "I'd like a few words with
                            Miss Clinton," he said. "I saw her come in, so
                            she's not out. It's important, ma'am. She
                            will hear something to her advantage, as they say in the
                            personals."
                        "Will you please return at three o'clock, Mr. Shay? My
                            niece is resting after the arduous labours of the "
                        "I dassent wait," said "Soapy," with
                            a furtive glance over his shoulder. "If he sees me,
                            I'll probably have to change my mind."
                        "Who is it, Auntie?" called out a clear voice from
                            within.
                        "'Soapy' Shay," replied the visitor
                            himself.
                        "Mr. Landover will be here presently, Mr. Shay," began
                            the obstacle in the doorway.
                        "I guess not," broke in "Soapy,"
                            forgetting himself so far as to wink. "I expect you
                            haven't heard the news, ma'am. He's had his
                            nose put out of joint."
                        "Good heavens! His nose out of "
                        "Come in, Soapy," cried Ruth.
                        "Ruth, my dear, do you know who do you know what "
                        "Sure she knows," again interrupted
                            "Soapy," unembarrassed. "I'm not
                            after anybody's jewels, Mrs. 
                            Spofford, and besides which I am the principal candidate for Sheriff of
                            this bailiwick. You don't suppose a man who's running
                            for the office of sheriff on Mr. A. A. Percival's ticket is
                            going to lift anything before election, do you? Besides which
                            I've made up my mind to be straight as long as I'm on
                            this island, and if I'm elected, which I will be, I'm
                            going to see that nobody else does anything crooked. Mr. A. A. Percival
                            is a wise guy, a mighty wise guy. Says he to me, 'Soapy, you
                            are one of the most expert '"
                        "Come inside, Soapy," called out Ruth.
                        Mr. Shay entered. "You better shut the door, Mrs.
                            Spofford," he said coolly. "What I got to say is
                            private. As I was saying, A. A. says to me, 'Soapy, you are one
                            of the craftiest and slipperiest crooks on this side of the Atlantic
                            Ocean. What you don't know about crime would fill a book about
                            as thick as a postage stamp. There's nobody on this island more
                            fittin' to be an officer of the law. You know everything that
                            an officer of the law ought to know, and besides which you know
                            everything that a thief has to know. So
                            you're going to be elected Sheriff of Trigger Island.'
                            That's what A. A. says to me, and, as usual, he's dead
                            right. Why, ma'am, there ain't a thief in the universe
                            that can fool me. I don't have to have any evidence, not a
                            grain of it. All I got to do is to just ask 'em why they done
                            it. But what I dropped in to see you about, Miss Ruth, is Say, you
                            ain't by any chance expecting A. A. to drop in, are you? I
                            wouldn't have him ketch me here for "
                        "I am not expecting Mr. Percival, Soapy," she said, her
                            gaze fixed expectantly on the man's face.
                        "Well, then," said he, "I got a little story
                            to tell you. It's the gospel truth. Just try to forget that  I used to be a crook and that in ordinary
                            times I am one of the most gosh-awful liars on earth. But
                            there's absolutely no pleasure in lying nowadays, and as for
                            working at my regular trade, Mrs. Spofford, you needn't be the
                            least bit nervous. It ain't necessary for you to set on that
                            trunk. Take this chair, please. Now, you remember some time back that A.
                            A. and your friend Landover had a mix-up in the last named
                            gentleman's stateroom, and you also must remember that Mr.
                            Landover told you about it and that Mr. Percival never told you anything
                            about it. Well, I was a witness to that fracas. I just happened to be
                            walking along the deck when something caught my eye and I went up close
                            to see what it was. You'd never guess what it was. After
                            looking at it very carefully I discovered it was a port-hole."
                        Forsaking his whimsical manner, he related tersely in as few words as
                            possible the story of the encounter.
                        "Now, it's my guess that Mr. Abel Landover
                            didn't speak the whole truth and nothing but the truth when he
                            furnished you with his version of the affair. Am I right, or am I
                            wrong?" he asked, in conclusion.
                        "I prefer to believe Mr. Landover's story,"
                            said Mrs. Spofford stiffly. "Will you be good enough to go now,
                            Mr. Shay?"
                        "Sure," said "Soapy," rising.
                            "I'm not asking anybody to take my word against his.
                            I'm just telling you, that's all. Good afternoon,
                            ladies."
                        "It was not Mr. Percival who fired the shot? You are sure of
                            that, Soapy?" Ruth was standing now. Her eyes were very dark
                            and tempestuous.
                        "Sure as my right name ain't Soapy Shay,"
                            returned the witness, holding up his right hand.
                        
                        "Ruth, it isn't possible that you place any credence in
                            "
                        "Thank you for coming, Soapy," interrupted Ruth.
                            "It was very good of you."
                        "Soapy" lingered at the door, fumbling his dilapidated
                            hat. Mrs. Spofford was staring speechlessly at her niece.
                        "I'd a little sooner you wouldn't say anything
                            to A. A. about me peaching on him," said
                            "Soapy," somewhat nervously.
                        "I shall not 'peach' on you, Soapy,"
                            said the girl, a joyous smile suddenly illuminating her face.
                        "Soapy" went out. As he closed the door, he said to
                            himself: "Next time you tell me to go to hell, Abe Landover, I
                            guess you'd better furnish a guide that knows the
                            way."
                        As soon as the door was closed, Mrs. Spofford turned upon her radiant
                            niece.
                        "You are not such a fool as to believe that rascal's
                            story, Ruth?"
                        "I believe every word of it!" cried the girl.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XII
                        SAILORS, sniffing the gale that night, shook their heads and said there
                            was snow on the tail of it. Morning found the ground mottled with
                            splashes of white and a fine, frost-like sleet blowing fitfully across
                            the plain. The ridge of trees over against the shore became vague and
                            shapeless beneath the filmy veil, while the sea out beyond the breakers
                            was clothed in a grey shroud, bleak and impenetrable.
                        Knapendyke was positive and reassuring in his contention that no great
                            amount of snow ever fell upon the island. While much of the vegetation
                            was of a character indigenous to the temperate zone, there was, he
                            pointed out, another type peculiar to tropical climates, and although
                            the latter was of a singularly hardy nature, it was not calculated to
                            survive the rigours of a harsh, protracted winter.
                        "We'll have spells like this, off and on, just as they
                            occasionally do in Florida or Southern California, is the way I figure
                            it out," he said to the group of uneasy men who contemplated
                            the embryonic blizzard with alarm and misgiving. "Moreover, I
                            believe the wet, cold season is a short one here. The birds are content
                            to stick it out. The fact there is no migration is proof enough for me
                            that the winter is never severe. As the weather prognosticators say,
                            look out for squalls, unsettled weather, frost tonight, rising
                            temperature tomorrow, rain the next day, doctors' bills the end
                            of the month. Avoid crowded street-cars, passenger elevators and places
                            of amusement. Take plenty of out-door 
                            exercise and don't eat too many strawberries."
                        Children, on their way to school in the town hall, shouted with glee as
                            they romped in the snow-laden gale. It had no terrors for them. They
                            were not concerned with the dour prospect that brought anxiety to the
                            hearts of their elders.
                        "It's fine to be a kid," said Percival,
                            watching the antics of a crowd of boys. "Why do we have to grow
                            up?"
                        "So that we can appreciate what it was to be a kid,"
                            said Randolph Fitts.
                        Ruth Clinton was one of the teachers. There were, all told, about thirty
                            children in the school, their ages ranging from five to fourteen. Most
                            of them were youngsters from the steerage, bright-eyed little Latins who
                            had picked up with lively avidity no small store of English. They were
                            being taught in English.
                        The council, spurred by the far-seeing Percival, recognized the perils of
                            a period of inactivity following the harvest and the flailing days. The
                            majority of the men and women would be comparatively idle. Preparations
                            for the building of a small ship occupied the time and interest of a few
                            engineers and ship-carpenters, but as some weeks were bound to pass
                            before the work could be begun in earnest, an interim of impatience
                            would have to be bridged. Work, and plenty of it, was the only
                            prescription for despair.
                        Already symptoms of increasing moodiness marked the mien of the less
                            resourceful among the castaways. While it was not generally known, two
                            men had attempted suicide, and one of the Brazilian ladies, a beautiful
                            young married woman, was in a pitiful state of collapse. She had a
                            husband and two small children in Rio Janeiro. The separation was
                            driving her  mad. There were others, both
                            men and women, whose minds were never free from the thought of loved
                            ones far across the waters and whose hearts ached with a great pain that
                            could not be subdued by philosophy, but they were strong and they were
                            cheerful. In their souls burnt an unquenchable fire, the fire of hope;
                            they stirred it night and day with the song of the unvanquished.
                        Improvements in the hastily constructed cabins provided not only
                            occupation but interest for the ablebodied men and women. There was no
                            little rivalry in the matter of interior embellishments; those skilled
                            in the use of implements took great pride in hewing out and adding more
                            or less elaborate ornamentation to the fades of their habitations, such
                            as casements, door-posts and capitals, awnings, porches, and so forth. A
                            shell road was in process of construction from one end of the village to
                            the other, while over in Dismal Forest woodsmen were even now cutting
                            down the towering Norfolk pines and hewing out the staunch timbers for
                            the ship that was to sail out one day in quest of the world they had
                            left behind them. But these enterprises provided work for men only. The
                            women, in the main, were without occupation. With the approach of winter
                            the men in active control of the camp's affairs realized that
                            something would have to be done to relieve the strain, at least, to
                            lighten it until spring came to the rescue with toil in the fields and
                            gardens.
                        A system of exchange was being worked out. As has been mentioned before
                            in this chronicle, the people of the steerage were the plutocrats. Their
                            hoardings represented real money, the savings of years. When it came to
                            an actual "show-down," to use Percival's  expression, these people who were poor in
                            the accepted sense, now were rich. They could "buy and
                            sell" the "plutocrats" of another day and
                            another world.
                        The theory that one good turn deserves another was an insufficient
                            foundation upon which to construct a substantial system of exchange. It
                            is all very well to talk about brotherly love, said Percival. The
                            trouble is that certain brothers are for ever imposing upon other
                            brothers, and the good turn does not always find its recompense.
                            Socialism, he argued, is a fine thing until you discover that you are
                            not alone in the world. Brotherly love began with Cain and Abel, and
                            socialism is best exemplified by a parlour aquarium. Nothing happens to
                            disturb the serene existence of the goldfish until somebody forgets to
                            feed them, and then they begin nibbling at each other.
                        "You mend my fence, I'll mend yours," is an
                            ideal arrangement until you find it is "our fence" and
                            doesn't need mending.
                        To Landover, Block and other financial experts was delegated the power
                            and authority to perfect a fair, impartial monetary system. First of
                            all, they arbitrarily declared the dollar, the peso and the shilling to
                            be without value. "Time" script was to be issued by
                            the governing board, and as this substitute would automatically become
                            useless on the day the castaways were discovered and taken off the
                            island, no citizen was to be allowed to reduce or dissipate his hoard of
                            real money.
                        Landover's proposal that a central depository be established for
                            the purpose of holding and safe-guarding the possessions of each and
                            every person was primarily intended to prevent the surreptitious use of
                            real money.  This project met with almost
                            universal opposition. The "rich" preferred to hang
                            onto their money, thereby running true to form. While professing the
                            utmost confidence in the present integrity of the banker and his friends
                            they ingenuously wanted to know what chance they would have of getting
                            their money back when these masters of finance were ready to leave the
                            island! So they elected to hide their gold and silver where it would be
                            safe from unscrupulous financiers! And nothing could shake them in this
                            resolve.
                        "Time" was the basic principle on which the value of
                            the script was to be determined, and as "time," in
                            this instance, meant hours and nothing else, a citizen's income
                            depended entirely on his readiness to work. Ten hours represented a full
                            day's work. The handpress on board the Doraine was used to print the "hours," as the
                            little slips made from the stock of menu card-board were called. They
                            were divided into five denominations, viz.: One Hour, Three Hours, Five
                            Hours, Seven Hours and Ten Hours. Each of these checks bore the
                            signature of Abel T. Landover and a seal devised by Peter Snipe, who
                            besides being an author was something of a draughtsman, indeed, his
                            enemies said he was a far better artist than he was an author, which
                            annoyed him tremendously in view of the fact that he had stopped drawing
                            when he was fifteen because eminent cartoonists and illustrators had
                            told him he had no talent at all. The printing and stamping was done on
                            board the Doraine and the script was shortly to be put
                            into circulation. Landover was slated to become treasurer of Trigger
                            Island at the general election.
                        As an illustration, this sort of dialogue was soon to become more or less
                            common:
                        
                        "What's the price of this hat, Madame Obosky?"
                        "Twenty-seven hours, Mrs. Block."
                        Or:
                        "Gimme an hour's worth of 'smoke,'
                            Andy," meaning, of course, the substitute for tobacco.
                        Or:
                        "You blamed robber, what do you mean charging six hours for
                            half-soling them shoes? If you was any good, you could ha' done
                            it in half the time."
                        Every individual in camp over the age of thirteen was obliged to have an
                            occupation. To a certain extent, this occupation was selective, but in
                            the main it was to be determined by a board whose business it was to see
                            that the man-power was directed to the best advantage for all concerned.
                            A camp tax was ordered. At the end of the week, every citizen was
                            required to pay into the common treasury two "hours."
                            He could not "work out" this tax. It had to be paid in
                            "cash." Out of the taxes so received, the school, the
                            church, the "hospital" and the
                            "government" were to be supported.
                        The "governor" of Trigger Island and the humblest
                            workingman were to receive exactly the same pay:
                            "hour" for hour. Thirty thousand
                            "hours" represented the total issue, or, approximately
                            fifty units for each individual over the age of thirteen.
                        As no man's hours was worth more than another's, and as
                            every transaction was to be based on time, rather than on money, there
                            was no small likelihood that any one man or group of men could ever
                            obtain a commanding grip on the finances of the Island.
                        And so it came to pass that all manner of enterprises sprang into
                            existence. Competition was not allowed. There could be but one millinery
                            shop, one dressmaking  establishment, one
                            shoe and sandal factory, and so on. Everything was conducted on a
                            strictly cash basis; there were no "charge accounts."
                        Olga Obosky, as the proprietress of the millinery shop, earned no more
                            than any one of her half-dozen assistants, and they were all paid by the
                            "government." The same could be said of Madame
                            Careni-Amori, who conducted a school of music, and the great Joseppi who
                            graciously, even gladly, went into the tailoring business. Andrew Mott,
                            one time First Officer on the Doraine, opened a
                            "smoke" store and dispensed cured weed that Flattner
                            authorized him to call "tobacco." The austere Mrs.
                            Spofford decided to open a dress-making shop!
                        It was all very simple, this man-to-man system of traffic, but no one
                            took it lightly or in the spirit of jest. They were serious, they were
                            sober-minded. Interest, incentive, grim determination centred in the
                            seemingly childish arrangement. Greed was lacking, for there was no
                            chance to hoard; confidence was paramount, for there was no chance to
                            lose.
                        The "hours" travelled in a circle, from the
                            "government" to people, from people to
                            "government"; when all was said and done, it was the
                            product of soil and sea that formed the backbone of the system.
                        With the adoption of the plan, it was to become a punishable offence,
                            indeed, it was to be classified as treason, for any resident of Trigger
                            Island to "forage" for necessities. He could do what
                            he pleased in respect to the non-essentials, but when it came to
                            foodstuffs of any kind or description, he was guilty of a felony if he
                            failed to turn all that he produced or secured into the general stores.
                        "Strikes me," said Randolph Fitts in council meeting,
                                 "that we are arriving at the
                            most exquisite state of socialism. This comes pretty close to being the
                            essence of that historic American dream, 'of the people, by the
                            people, for the people.' Up to date, that has been the rarest
                            socialistic doctrine ever promulgated, but we are going it a long sight
                            better. 'From the people, by the people, to the
                            people.' What do you call that but socialism?"
                        "Are you speaking to me?" demanded Percival.
                        "In a general way, yes,"
                        "Well, it's not my idea of socialism. So far as
                            I've been able to discover, socialism is a game in which you
                            are supposed to take something out of your pocket and put it into the
                            other fellow's whether he wants it or not. This scheme of ours
                            is quite another thing. We're not planning to split even on
                            what we've got in our pockets so much as we're
                            planning to divide what we've got in our hands, and
                            there's a lot of difference between a hand and a pocket, old
                            top. You can see what's in one and you can't see
                            what's in the other. And, by the way, Fitts, if we let the
                            socialists in this camp suspect that we're trying to introduce
                            socialism here, there'll be a revolution before you can say
                            Jack Robinson. They won't stand for it. They'd let out
                            the blamedest roar on record if they thought we were trying to deprive
                            them of the right to feel sorry for themselves."
                        Ruth hurried over to the town-hall bright and early on this snowy, gusty
                            morning. The forenoon session of the school began punctually at 8:30
                            o'clock. She was there half an hour ahead of time to see that
                            there was a roaring fire in the huge fire-place, and that the benches
                            for the scholars were drawn up close to it. There were two teachers
                            besides herself, and both of  them were
                            experienced "school marms." She taught the
                            "infant class," comprising about a dozen tots. The
                            three teachers took turns about in building the fires, arranging the
                            benches and cleaning the crude blackboard.
                        There had been church-services the night before, and the benches were all
                            in use, arranged so that they faced the combination pulpit-rostrum-stage
                            at the far end of the room. Tonight there was to be a general committee
                            meeting to discuss the prospective financial scheme and the general
                            election that was to take place the following week.
                        The structure was not blessed with a paucity of names. If there was to be
                            a council-meeting or a camp assembly, it was called the
                            "Meeting-house." On Sundays it became the
                            "tabernacle." Week-days it was known as the
                            "schoolhouse," and at odd times it was spoken of as
                            the "theatre," the "concert-hall,"
                            and the "Trigger Island court-house." In one corner
                            stood the grand piano from the Doraine, regularly and
                            laboriously tuned by the great Joseppi. Madame Careni-Amori gave vocal
                            and instrumental lessons here every afternoon in the week, from three to
                            six. Among the older children there were a number who had voices that
                            seemed worth developing, and the famous soprano put her heart and soul
                            into the bewildering task of stuffing the rudiments of music down their
                            throats.
                        Ruth stopped just inside the door and looked about her in astonishment.
                            The benches had been drawn up in an orderly semi-circle about the
                            fire-place. Beyond them she observed the figure of a man kneeling before
                            the fire, using a bellows with great effect. The big logs were snapping,
                            and cracking, and spitting before the furious blasts.
                        
                        She closed the door and started across the room in his direction.
                            Suddenly she recognized the broad back and the familiar but very
                            unseasonable panama hat. Panic seized her. She turned quickly, bent on
                            making her escape. Her heart was beating like a trip-hammer, she felt
                            strangely weak in the knees. As abruptly, she checked the impulse to
                            flee. Why should she run away, now that the moment she had wished for so
                            ardently the night before was at hand? Chance had answered her call with
                            amazing swiftness. She was alone with him, she could go to him and lay
                            her weapons at his feet and say, as she had said a hundred times in the
                            night, "I can fight no more. I am beaten."
                        But now that the time had come for bravery, she found herself sorely
                            afraid. A chill swept through her, a weakening chill that took away her
                            strength and left her trembling from head to foot. The crisis was at
                            hand, the great, surpassing crisis. She found herself hazily,
                            tremulously wondering what the next minute in her life would be like?
                            What would be said in it, what would happen to her? Would she be in his
                            arms, would his lips be upon hers, all in the minute to come? Was the
                            whole of her life to be altered in the brief space of a
                            minute's time?
                        A warm glow suddenly drove off the chill. It came with the realization
                            that he was building the fire for her, that his thoughts were of her,
                            that he had stolen into the building to make it warm and comfortable
                            long before she was due to arrive, and that he would steal away again as
                            soon as the "chores" were done.
                        He arose to his feet and stood over the fire for a moment or two,
                            watching its lively progress. Apparently 
                            satisfied with his efforts, he turned and started toward the door. She
                            was standing in his path, a shy, wavering smile on her lips.
                        He halted, and after an instant's hesitation, stammered:
                        "I I never dreamed you'd be around so early. I thought
                            I'd run in as I was passing and build a fire for for the
                            kiddies. Get the place warmed up a bit before "
                        "Will you let me say something, Mr. Percival?" she
                            broke in, hurrying the words.
                        He fumbled for his hat. "I am sorry if you are annoyed, Miss
                            Clinton. Please believe me when I tell you I hoped to get out before you
                            came. I came early so that you would not find me "
                        "You are not letting me say what I want to say."
                        She came toward him, her hand extended. "Oh, I don't
                            want to thank you for lighting the fire and putting the room in order. I
                            want to tell you that I surrender."
                        "Surrender?" he exclaimed, staring.
                        "I cannot fight you any longer," she said breathlessly.
                        He looked dumbly first at her hand and then into her eyes. She was an
                            arm's length away.
                        "Fight me?" he mumbled, uncomprehending.
                        "You you said we could not be friends. I knew what you meant. If
                            if you love me, oh, if you do love me, we need not be
                            friends. But I know you love me. If I did not know it I could not have
                            come to you like this and "
                        "Do I love you?" he cried out. "My God, I I
                            worship you."
                        She held out both arms to him. "Then, we will try  no more to be friends," she
                            murmured very softly. "Here are my arms. I surrender."
                        A long time after he said to her as they sat before the jubilant,
                            applauding fire, the only witness to their ecstasy:
                        "Now I understand why we have never really been friends. It
                            wasn't what God intended. Even in the beginning we were not
                            friends. We thought we were, but we weren't. We were lovers,
                            Ruth, from the start."
                        "I tried very hard to hate you," she sighed, drawing a
                            little closer in the crook of his encircled arm. "How wonderful
                            it all is, how wonderful!"
                        "I never believed it could come true. I hoped, God, how I hoped,
                            but it didn't seem possible that this could ever happen.
                            I've wanted to hold you in my arms, to kiss your dear lips, to
                            kiss your eyes, to touch your hair, to press you tight against my heart.
                            And here I am awake, not dreaming, not longing, and I have done all
                            these things. Lord! I wonder if I can possibly be dreaming all this for
                            the thousandth time."
                        "I was thinking of you when I came into this room, not ten
                            minutes ago, and suddenly I saw you. I was terrified. I knew then that
                            my dreams were coming true, I knew it, and I don't know why I
                            did not run away. Any self-respecting, modest girl would have done so.
                            But what did I do? I, a supposedly sensible, well-brought-up "
                        "You caught me trying to run away," he broke in.
                            "I give you my word, my heart was in my throat all the time I
                            was working over that fire, scared stiff with the fear that you would
                            come in and bayonet me  with one of those
                            icicle looks of yours. And see what really happened!"
                        They were silent for some time, staring into the fire. Suddenly his arm
                            tightened; he drew a sharp breath. She looked up quickly.
                        "Why are you frowning?"
                        "I was just thinking," he replied after a
                            moment's hesitation.
                        He gave a queer little jerk of his head, as if casting off something that
                            bothered him. Into his paradise had slipped the memory of a night not
                            long since when he held the yielding, responsive form of another woman
                            in his arms, and felt the thrill of an ignoble passion surging through
                            his veins. The kiss of the sensualist had burned on his lips for days;
                            even to this hour it had clung to them; he was never free from the fire
                            it had started in his imagination. And always on Olga's red,
                            alluring lips lurked the reminder that she had not forgotten; in her
                            eyes lay the light of expectancy.
                        "Of whom?" asked Ruth, not coyly, but with a directness
                            that startled him. She seemed to have divined that his thoughts were not
                            of her in that brief, flitting instant.
                        "Of myself," he answered, quite truthfully.
                        She laid her hand on his. "I forbid you to think of any one but
                            me," she said.
                        He was silent for a moment. "I shall never think of any one but
                            you, Ruth Clinton," he said earnestly. "You have
                            nothing to fear."
                        "I believe you," she said, and pressed his hand
                            tightly. After a slight pause, she went on, looking straight into his
                            eyes: "I might have lost you, dear,  and I could have blamed no one but myself. She she is very
                            alluring."
                        He shook his head. "I've always been of the opinion
                            that Samson's hair needed trimming. His mother probably brought
                            him up with Fauntleroy curls, poor chap. If he'd had his hair
                            cut regularly, he wouldn't have looked such an ass when Delilah
                            got through with him."
                        "I don't quite follow the parable."
                        "In other words, it's what a man's got in his head and not so much what he's got on
                            it that makes him strong," he explained, still more or less
                            cryptically.
                        "I am beginning to see. You made good use of what you have in
                            your head, is that it?"
                        "I made use of what you put into it a good many months ago, dear
                            heart. You have been in my head and in my heart all these months, and so
                            it was you who made me strong. Without you in there, I might have been
                            as weak as Samson was before he had his hair cut. No sensible man blames
                            Delilah. In fact, men are rather strong for her. When you stop to think
                            how long old Samson got away with it, and what a shock it must have been
                            to her after she trimmed him and found there wasn't anything
                            left to speak of, you've just got to feel sorry for her. She
                            took one good look at his head and understood why he let his hair grow.
                            He was like the fellow who wears long whiskers to develop his chin. If
                            Samson had had room enough in his head for a thought of anything except
                            himself, Delilah wouldn't have been able to catch him
                            napping."
                        She could not help laughing. "You take a most original way of
                            evading the point. Still, I am satisfied. You did not have room in your
                            head for any  one else but me, and
                            that's all there is to it. I can't help feeling
                            tremendously complimented, however. She is quite capable of turning any
                            man's head."
                        "She plays fair, Ruth," he said seriously.
                            "She keeps the danger signal up all the time. That's
                            more than you can say for most women."
                        "Yes," said she; "she plays fair. She is a
                            strange woman. She has given me a lot of advice, and I am just beginning
                            to take it."
                        "If I had believed what she told me three months ago,"
                            said he, "this glorious hour would have been advanced just that
                            length of time."
                        Ruth stiffened. "What did she tell you?"
                        "She told me I was a fool and a coward; that all I had to do was
                            to walk up to you and say 'Here, I want you,' and that
                            would have been the end of my suspense. She told me something I
                            didn't know and couldn't believe."
                        "Indeed! I like her impudence! She "
                        "She told me you were as much in love with me as I was with you.
                            Honest, was she right?"
                        Ruth sighed. "I suppose she was right."
                        "And would you have come to me if I had said 'I want
                            you'?"
                        "If you had said it as you say it now, I listen! Good gracious!
                            There are the children!"
                        She sprang to her feet, blushing furiously. The door opened and three
                            small children were fairly blown into the room, three swarthy,
                            black-eyed urchins who stared in some doubt at the
                            "boss" and the adored "teacher."
                        "Good morning, children," she cried out jerkily, and
                            then glanced at each of the windows in quick succession.  "You don't
                            suppose," she began under her breath, turning to Percival with
                            a distressed look in her eyes.
                        "I wouldn't put it above 'em," said
                            he, cheerfully.
                        "We should have thought of the windows."
                        "Thank God, we didn't," he cried.
                        He went out into the storm with the song of the lark in his heart.
                        "God, what a beautiful place the world is!" he was
                            saying to himself, and all the while the sleet was stinging his radiant
                            face with the relentlessness of angry bees.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XIII
                        AS he swung jauntily down the road in the direction of his
                            "office," all the world might have seen that it was a beautiful place for him. He passed children
                            hurrying to school, and shouted envious "hurry-ups" to
                            them. Men and women, going about the morning's business, felt
                            better for the cheery greetings he gave them. Even Manuel Crust, pushing
                            a crude barrow laden with fire-wood, paused to look after the strutting
                            figure, resuming his progress with an annoyed scowl on his brow, for he
                            had been guilty of a pleasant response to Percival's genial
                            "good-morning." Manuel went his way wondering what the
                            devil had got into both of them.
                        Olga Obosky was peering from a window as he passed her hut. He waved his
                            hand at her, and then shook his head. He had passed her three
                            dancing-girls some distance down the road, romping like children in the
                            snow.
                        Buck Chizler was waiting for him outside the "office."
                        The little jockey had something on his mind, something that caused him to
                            grin sheepishly and at the same time look furtively over his shoulder.
                        "Can I see you for a coupla minutes, A. A.?" he
                            inquired, following the other to the door.
                        "Certainly, Buck, as many minutes as you like."
                        Buck discovered Randolph Fitts and Michael Malone seated before the fire.
                            He drew back.
                        "I'd like to see you outside," he said
                            nervously.
                        "Well, what is it?" asked Percival, stepping outside
                            and closing the door.
                        
                        Buck led him around the corner of the hut.
                        "It ain't so windy here," he explained.
                            "Awful weather, ain't it?"
                        "What's troubling you, Buck? Put on your cap, you
                            idiot. You'll take cold."
                        "Plumb nervousness," said Buck. "Same as if I
                            was pulling up to the start with fifty thousand on the nag. I want to
                            ask your advice, A. A. Just a little private matter. Oh, nothing
                            serious. Nothing like that, you know. I just thought maybe
                            you'd Gosh, I never saw it snow like this up home, did you?
                            Funny, too, when you think how tropical we ought to be. There was a bad
                            blizzard a coupla years ago in Buenos Aires, but "
                        "Come to the point, Buck. What's up?"
                        Buck lowered his voice. "Well, you see it's this way.
                            I'm thinking of getting married. Tomorrow, if possible.
                            Don't laugh! I don't see anything to laugh at in
                            "
                        "I beg your pardon, old chap. I couldn't help laughing.
                            It's because I'm happy. Don't mind me. Go
                            ahead. You're thinking of getting married, eh? Well,
                            what's to prevent?"
                        "Do you approve of it? That's what I want to
                            know."
                        "Sure. Of course, I approve of it."
                        "I just thought I'd make sure. You see,
                            nobody's ever got married here before, and I didn't
                            know what you'd think of me er sort of breaking the ice,
                            don't you see."
                        "She's finally said 'yes,' has she?
                            Good girl! Congratulations, old chap, thousands of 'em
                            millions."
                        "Well, that takes some of the load off my mind,"  said Buck, as they shook hands.
                            "Now, there's one or two things more. First, she says
                            she won't come and live in a hut where five men besides myself
                            are bunking. I don't blame her, do you? Second, she says if we
                            ever get rescued from this island, she won't let me go to the
                            war, not a step, she swears. I put up a holler right away. I says to her
                            I was on my way to the war before I ever met her, and then she says I
                            ain't got anything on her. She was going over to nurse. But she
                            says if she gets married she's going to claim exemption, or
                            whatever they call it, and she says I got to do the same,'cause
                            we'll both have dependents then. Then I says the chances are
                            the war's over by this time anyhow, and she says a feller in
                            the Argentine told her on his word of honour it wouldn't be
                            over for five years or more. But that's a minor point.
                            What's rusting me is this: how am I going to get rid of them
                            five guys in my cabin?"
                        "Have you told them you're going to be
                            married?"
                        "Oh, hell, they're the ones that told me."
                        "It's pretty rough weather to turn men out into the
                            cold, unfeeling world, Buck."
                        Buck scratched his ear in deep perplexity. "Well, it's
                            got me guessing." He slumped into an attitude of profound
                            dejection. "What we'd ought to have done, A. A., was
                            to build a hotel or something like that. If we had a hotel here,
                            there'd be so blamed many weddings you couldn't keep
                            track of 'em. That's the only thing that's
                            holding people back. Why, half the unmarried fellers here are thinking
                            about getting married. They're thinking, and thinking, and
                            thinking, morning, noon and night. And they've got the girls
                            thinking, too, and most of the widders and old maids besides. I
                            don't see how a smart feller like  you, A. A., happened to overlook the possibility of just this kind of
                            thing happening."
                        "Good Lord, what have I got to do with it?"
                        "Why, darn it all, you'd ought to have put up a few
                            huts with 'For Rent' signs on 'em, or else
                            "
                        "By George, Buck! I've got it," cried Percival
                            excitedly. "Have you thought of a wedding journey?"
                        "A what?"
                        "Wedding trip, honeymoon."
                        "Well, we might walk up and down the main street here a coupla
                            times," said Buck sarcastically. "Or take a stroll
                            along the beach or something like that."
                        "What's the matter with a nice long sea
                            voyage?"
                        "Say, I'm not kidding about this thing,"
                            exclaimed Mr. Chizler, bristling. "I'm in dead
                            earnest."
                        "Has it occured to you that the Doraine is
                            lying out there in the harbour Here! Look out! I don't like
                            being hugged by "
                        "My gosh, A. A! Oh, my gosh!" barked the ecstatic
                            bridegroom-apparent. "How did you happen to think of such a
                            beautiful, wonderful "
                        "How did I happen to think of it?" shouted Percival,
                            just as ecstatically. "Why, darn your eyes, why
                            shouldn't I think of it? Why did old Noah think of the Ark?
                            Why, I ask you?"
                        "He didn't," said Buck succinctly.
                            "The feller that wrote the Bible thought of it."
                        "What time is it? Oh, Lord, nearly three hours yet before school
                            is out."
                        "Say, are you off your base, lemme smell your breath. You act
                            like Wait a second! There's something else I want to speak to
                            you about. Is it  is it all right for me
                            to get married? She says I'll have to get your O. K. before
                            she'll move an inch. She says nobody can do anything around
                            here without you say so. So I "
                        "You tell her I give my consent gladly, Buck, my boy. Give her a
                            good kiss for me, and say I'll speak to Captain Trigger this
                            afternoon about passage on the Doraine. By George, I I
                            think I'll go and speak to him about it now."
                        "Much obliged, boss. By gosh, you are a brick.
                            There ain't anything you won't do for a friend, is
                            there?"
                        Percival blushed and stammered. "I I've got to see him
                            anyhow, Buck, so don't thank me. By the way,
                            while I'm about it, I suppose I might as well speak to Parson
                            Mackenzie, eh? Or is it to be Father Francisco? And that reminds me,
                            I'll have to see Malone and find out about the legality, got to
                            have the law on our side, you see, Buck. Something in the form of a
                            license, United States of America and all that, and also see about
                            fixing up desirable quarters on board the Doraine. I
                            may have to transfer quite a lot of er furniture and so forth from my
                            hut to the ship, and "
                        "Gee whiz, A. A., you mustn't go to so blamed much
                            trouble for me," gasped the delighted Buck.
                        "Eh? What? Oh, the devil take you! Beat it now. I'm
                            going to be mighty busy this morning."
                        "I'll do as much for you, A. A., if you ever get
                            married," cried Buck, once more wringing the other's
                            hand. Then he was off up the road like a schoolboy.
                        Shortly before the noon recess, Percival returned from the Doraine. By this time, the news had spread  through the camp that there was to be a
                            wedding. Every one he met hailed him with the excited question:
                        "Say, have you heard the news?"
                        "What news?"
                        "There's going to be a wedding."
                        "Good Lord!" said Percival to himself. "They
                                must have been peeping through those windows after
                            all."
                        Finding that he had ten minutes to spare before school was out, he
                            decided to call upon Mrs. Spofford. That lady received him with icy
                            politeness.
                        "I have been expecting you," she said. "Your
                            friend Mr. Shay honoured us with a visit yesterday. My niece is at the
                            school. Will you sit down and wait for her, or "
                        "I beg your pardon. What was that you said about Shay?"
                        "I said he came to see us."
                        Percival stared. "He did?"
                        "Please sit down, Mr. Percival. Do not ask me to tell you
                            anything more about Mr. Shay," she went on hurriedly, and in
                            some confusion. "I don't believe he would like it, and
                            as he is a dangerous character, I beg of you not to "
                        "If Soapy Shay dared to intrude "
                        "I implore you, do not think anything more about it. He was most
                            courteous and polite and all that."
                        He remained standing, his gaze fixed upon her face. Somehow, he guessed
                            the nature of Soapy's visit.
                        "I suppose he came as a tale-bearer."
                        "I must decline to discuss the matter, Mr. Percival."
                        "Mrs. Spofford," he began, with all the dignity of a
                            courtier, "I have come to request the hand of your  niece in marriage. I have loved her from
                            the very "
                        "Oh, God!" groaned the trembling lady. "It has
                            come at last! It has come, just as I feared. For pity's sake,
                            Mr. Percival, spare her! She is "
                        "I beg your pardon," he broke in, flushing. "I
                            think you misunderstand me. I am asking your consent to marry her. I
                            believe it is still customary among gentlemen to consult the "
                        "Permit me to interrupt you, Mr. Percival," said she,
                            regaining her composure and her austerity. "What you ask is
                            quite impossible. My niece is, ah, I may say tentatively engaged. I am
                            sorry for you. Perhaps it would be just as well if you did not wait for
                            her to come in. She will be "
                        "Mrs. Spofford, I am obliged to confess to you that I have
                            already spoken to Miss Clinton, and I may add that she is not
                            tentatively engaged. She has promised to be my wife."
                        She drew back as if struck. She was silent for many seconds.
                        "It would appear that my consent is not necessary, Mr.
                            Percival," she said at last. "Why do you come to
                            me?"
                        "Because, while you may not suspect it, I was born a
                            gentleman," said he stiffly.
                        She received this with a slight nod of the head and no more.
                        "My niece, no doubt in her excitement, has neglected to ask you
                            one or two very important questions," she said levelly.
                            "First of all, have you any means of convincing us that you do
                            not already possess a wife?"
                        He started. "You are right," he said. "That
                                is an important question, and she has not asked
                            it. I have no means of convincing you that I have never  been married, Mrs. Spofford. My word of
                            honour is the only thing I can offer."
                        She regarded him narrowly. "Do you consider that sufficient, Mr.
                            Percival?"
                        "I do," said he simply. She waited for him to go on,
                            and was distinctly impressed by his failure to do so. So far as he was
                            concerned, there was nothing more to be added.
                        "How are we to know what your past life contains? You may have
                            left your homeland in disgrace, you may even have been a fugitive from
                            justice. We have no means of knowing. You were a stowaway on board the
                                Doraine. That much, at least, we do know. We know
                            nothing more. You are smart, you are clever. Surely you must see
                            yourself that under other circumstances, under normal conditions, my
                            niece would not have condescended to notice you, Mr. Percival. We are on
                            an undiscovered island, remote from the environment, the society, the
                            "
                        "Permit me to remind you, Mrs. Spofford," he
                            interrupted, a trifle coldly, "that you just remarked that you
                            know nothing whatever about me. Isn't it barely possible that
                            my life may contain something desirable in the shape of family, position
                            and environment?"
                        "I recall that Mr. Gray did speak of knowing the Percival
                            family. My niece never allows me to forget it."
                        "Mr. Gray did not know my family. He knew of my family, Mrs.
                            Spofford, if that conveys anything to you. Not that they would not have
                            been proud to have known him, for he was a gentleman. As for my own
                            case, I can only say that I am not a fugitive from justice, nor have I
                            done anything more disgraceful than the average young man who has been
                            through  college and who, ignoring the
                            counsel of his father, proceeds to find out for himself the same things
                            that his father had found out a great many years before, and his father
                            before him, and so on back to the beginning of man. My
                            great-great-grandfather on my mother's side was a comparatively
                            recent settler in America. He didn't come over from Scotland
                            until about 1750. My father's people came over in the days of
                            Lord Baltimore. Most of my remote ancestors were very wicked men. You
                            will find that one of them was executed in the Tower of London the same
                            week that Lady Jane Grey went to her death, and another was openly in
                            love with Mistress Nell Gwyn, thereby falling into disgrace with a
                            monarch named Charles. I admit that I come of very bad stock."
                        A fleeting twinkle lurked in her eyes.
                        "You are very adroit, Mr. Percival."
                        "Which is as much as to say that I have an agreeable and
                            interesting way of lying. Is that what you wish to imply, Mrs.
                            Spofford?"
                        "Not at all. I say you are adroit because you place me in an
                            embarrassing position. If I believe your confession that you come of bad
                            stock, I must also believe that you come of an exceedingly good old
                            Maryland family." He bowed very low. "My niece, Mr.
                            Percival, is an orphan. I am and have been her protector since she was
                            fourteen years of age. She is the possessor of a large fortune in her
                            own right. Her father, who was my brother, gave her into my care when he
                            was on his death-bed. I leave you to surmise just what were his dying
                            words to me. She was his idol. I have not failed him in any respect. You
                            ask me to give my consent to your marriage. I cannot do so. No doubt you
                            will be  married, just as you have
                            planned. She loves you. I have known it for months. I have seen this day
                            and hour coming, yes, I have seen it even more clearly than she, for
                            while she struggled desperately to deceive herself she has never been
                            able to deceive me. You are a strong, attractive man. The glamour of
                            mystery rests upon you. You have done prodigious deeds here, Mr.
                            Percival. All of this I recognize, and I should be unfair to my own
                            sense of honour were I to deny you my respect and gratitude. I must be
                            fair. Fear has been the cause of my attitude toward you, not fear of
                            you, sir, but fear for my niece. Now I am confronted by the inevitable.
                            The thing I have tried so hard to avoid has come to pass. In these
                            circumstances, I am forced to confess that I have not been without a
                            real, true admiration for you. I admit that I have felt a great security
                            with you in command of our camp. But, even so, you are not the man I
                            would have chosen to be Ruth's husband. The time is surely
                            coming when we will be delivered from this island prison, when we will
                            return to the life and the people and the conditions we knew before
                            catastrophe made a new world for us. I am thinking of that time, Mr.
                            Percival, and not of the present. I fear my niece is thinking only of
                            the present and not of the future."
                        He had listened with grave deference. "Forgive me if I appear
                            impertinent, Mrs. Spofford, but is it not, after all, the past you are
                            thinking about?"
                        She did not answer at once. His question had startled her.
                        "Youth does not live in the past," he went on quietly.
                            "It deals only with the present. I love Ruth Clinton, I love
                            her with the cleanest love a man can feel 
                            for a woman. It will not alter when we leave this island. If we are
                            fated to spend the rest of our lives here, it will endure to the
                            end."
                        "You are speaking for yourself," she said.
                            "Can you speak for Ruth?"
                        "No, I cannot," he admitted. "Nor can
                            you," he added boldly. "That is what I meant when I
                            asked if you were not thinking chiefly of the past. I cannot say that
                            Ruth will love me always, but I can say this: she loves me now, as I
                            love her, and in her heart she has said just what I said to you a moment
                            ago, that her love will endure."
                        "I daresay I do think more of the past than of the present, Mr.
                            Percival. You are right about the future. It is a blank page, to be
                            glorified or soiled by what is set down upon it. Fate has thrown you two
                            together. Perhaps it was so written in the past that you despise. A
                            single turn of the mysterious wheel of fortune brought you into her
                            life. Half a turn, the matter of minutes, and you would never have seen
                            each other, and you would have gone your separate ways to the end of
                            time without even knowing that the other existed. No doubt you both
                            contend that you cannot live without each other. It is the usual wail of
                            lovers. But are you quite as certain in your minds that you would have
                            perished if you had never seen each other?"
                        The note of irony did not escape him. He smiled. "In that case,
                            Mrs. Spofford, we should not have existed at all."
                        She shook her head despairingly. "You are too clever for
                            me," she said. "I warn you, however, that I shall do
                            everything in my power to persuade Ruth to reconsider her promise to
                            you."
                        
                        "Nothing could be fairer than that," said he, without
                            rancor. "If she comes to me this afternoon and says she has
                            changed her mind and cannot marry me, I shall not ask her again. Will
                            you be kind enough, Mrs. Spofford, to include that in your argument? It
                            may spare her a lot of worry and anxiety."
                        He bowed ceremoniously and took his departure. She went to the window
                            and, drawing aside the curtain, watched him until he disappeared down
                            the road. Then, as the curtain fell into place, she said to herself:
                        "Their children will be strong and beautiful."
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XIV
                        A FORTNIGHT later, Ruth and Percival were married. He was now governor of
                            Trigger Island.
                        The ceremony took place at noon on the Green in front of the Government
                            Building, (an imposing name added to the already extensive list by which
                            the "meeting-house" was known), and was attended by
                            the whole population of the island. His desire for a simple wedding had
                            been vigorously, almost violently opposed by the people. Led by Randolph
                            Fitts and the eloquent Malone, they demanded the pomp and ceremony of a
                            state wedding. As governor of Trigger Island, they clamoured, it was his
                                duty to be married in the presence of a multitude!
                            A general holiday was declared, a great "barbecue" was
                            arranged (minus the roasted ox), and when it was all over, the joyous
                            throng escorted the governor and his lady to the gaily decorated
                            "barge" that was to transport them from the landing to
                            the Doraine.
                        
                        Olga Obosky made the bride's bonnet and veil, and draped the
                            latter on the morning of the wedding day. Like the fabled merchants of
                            the Arabian Nights she appeared to the bride-elect and displayed her
                            wares. From the depths of her theatre trunks she produced a bewildering
                            assortment of laces, chiffon, silks, and the filmiest of gauzes.
                        "You must not be afraid zat they will contaminate you,"
                            she explained, noting the look of dismay in Ruth's eyes.
                            "Zey have never adorned my body, 
                            zey have never been expose to the speculating eye of the public, zey
                            have not hid from view these charms of mine. No, these are fair and
                            virtuous fabrics. It is you who will be the first to wear them, my
                            friend. Take your choice. See! Zis piece, is it not wonderful? It comes
                            from Buda Pesth. One day it would perhaps have caressed my flesh in the
                            Dance of the Sultan's Dream, but, alas, zat is not to be. Feel,
                            my friend, take it in your hand. See? You could hide it in the palm of
                            one of them, and presto! Throw it outspread, and it is like a blanket of
                            mist filling the room. It is priceless. It is unobtainable. None except
                            Obosky can afford to dance in such imperial stuff as this. Take it, it
                            is yours. It is my pleasure that you should have it. Better far it
                            should be your bridal veil than to drape these abandoned legs of
                            mine."
                        And so it was that the scant costume of the Sultan's Dream
                            became the bridal veil of the governor's lady.
                        If Olga Obosky was sore at heart, she gave no sign. On the contrary, she
                            revealed the sprightliest interest in the coming nuptials. Percival
                            himself had told her the news within the hour after his interview with
                            Mrs. Spofford. In his blind happiness, he had failed to notice the
                            momentary stiffening of her body as if resisting a shock; he did not see
                            the hurt, baffled look that darkened her eyes for a few seconds, and the
                            swiftly passing pallor that stole into her face and vanished almost
                            instantly. He saw only the challenging smile that followed close upon
                            these fleeting signs, and the mocking gleam in her eyes.
                        "So?" she had said. "So the citadel is yours,
                            my friend. Hail to the chief! I salute you. But consider,  O conqueror, what it is you are about to
                            do. You are setting a woeful example. There will be a stampede, a panic.
                            People will trample each other under foot in ze mad rush for captivity.
                            The wedding bell will crack under ze strain of so much ringing.
                            Everybody will be getting married, now zat they find it is so easy and
                            so simple. I congratulate you, my friend. You have been very slow, I
                            have said she was yours for the asking, you will remember. She is good,
                            she is beautiful, she is pure gold, my friend. I am her friend. Do not
                            ever forget, my Percivail, I am her friend."
                        He flushed warmly. He could not misinterpret her meaning. She spoke
                            slowly, deliberately. It was renunciation on her part.
                        "I understand, Olga," he said.
                        She smiled, and shrugged her shoulders.
                        "Oh, but you do not understand!" she cried.
                            "You are so very much perplexed. It is enough for me that you
                            are perplexed. I am content. I am the puzzle you will never solve. So!
                            La la! You will never cease to wonder. Look!"
                        She pointed her finger at a man who was crossing the Green below them.
                        "I am a puzzle to zat man also. He thought that he
                            understood."
                        "Landover? What do you mean?"
                        A spasm of fury transformed her features. She hissed out the words:
                        "I did spit in his face last night, zat is all."
                        The thirteenth of April, 1918, came on Saturday. Defying superstition,
                            Ruth selected it as her wedding day. It was a bright, warm autumn day,
                            bestowed by a gallant sun, and there was great rejoicing over this  evidence of God's approval. It
                            came as a winter's whim, for that night the skies were black
                            and thunderous; the winds roared savagely between the lofty walls of
                            Split Mountain and whined across the decks of the slanting Doraine, snug in the little basin, while out on the boundless
                            deep the turmoil of hell was raging.
                        And so began the honeymoon of the stowaway and the lady fair, even as the
                            "voyage" of the jockey and his bride had begun a
                            fortnight before. They sat at the Captain's table in the
                            ghostly, dismantled saloon. Above them hung two brightly burnished
                            lanterns, shedding a mellow light upon the festal board. Outside, the
                            whistling wind, the swish of the darkened waters, the rattle of davits
                            and the creak of the straining timbers.
                        Up from his place at the head of the table rose the gray and gallant
                            skipper.
                        "Up, gentlemen," said he, his face aglow. "I
                            give you the health, the happiness and the never diminishing glory of
                            the governor's lady."
                        "May she never be less," added the gaunt First Officer,
                            who spent his days ashore watching the growth of a new Doraine and his nights on board with the failing master of the
                            older one.
                        And in the rare old port from the Captain's locker they pledged
                            the radiant bride.
                        "A long voyage and a merry one!" cried Mr. Codge, the
                            purser, as he drained his goblet dry.
                        Mr. Furman Nicholas Chizler bowed very gravely to the lady on the
                            Captain's right, and then to the one at his left.
                        "What care we which way we sail so long as the wind's
                            behind us?" quoth he.
                    
                
                
                
                    BOOK THREE
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER I
                        IN the far-off Northland it is winter again, the winter of 1919-20.
                            Trigger Island is bright and clean with the furbishings of summer. It is
                            January, January without its coat of white, January as green as the
                            tender gourd.
                        There are a dozen graves or more on Cape Sunrise; Betty Cruise no longer
                            lies alone out on the wind-swept point. Crudely chiseled on the rough
                            headstones are names that have not been mentioned in this chronicle,
                            still not the less enduring. One name is there, however, chipped in a
                            great black slab from the face of Split Mountain, that will never be
                            forgotten as long as Trigger Island exists: it is that of Captain
                            Weatherby Trigger.
                        The master of the Doraine died aboard-ship in the
                            second winter. After his death the ship was abandoned. Mr. Codge and the
                            half-dozen old mariners who had made their home in the dismal hulk came
                            ashore.
                        Grim and ugly and as silent as the grave, save for the winds that moan
                            through her portholes and corridors, she lies rusting in sun and storm,
                            a gloomy presence that fills the soul with awe. Even the birds of the
                            air shun her barren decks; less fastidious bats have taken up their
                            abode in the heart of her, and spiders great and small are at work on a
                            sickly shroud.
                        Twenty months have passed. Christmas and New Year's day have
                            twice been celebrated and another Easter Sunday has found its way into
                            the faithful  journal of Peter Snipe, and
                            with them two amazing Fourths of July when there was coasting on the
                            long slopes and winter sports on the plains. There has been one
                            bountiful harvest and seed has been sown for yet another. The full
                            length of the sunny plain is under cultivation. The bins in the
                            granaries are well-filled with the treasures of the soil; the gardens
                            have increased and flourished; the warehouse is stacked with fresh and
                            dried fruits, vegetables, honey, and row upon row of preserves! Great
                            earthen jars, modeled with all the severity of the primitive
                            cave-dweller, serve as receptacles. The grist-mill on Leap Frog River is
                            busy from dawn till dusk; the forge rings with the music of hammer and
                            anvil; a saw-mill in the heart of Dismal Forest hums its whining tune
                            all day long. A noisy, determined engine, fashioned by mechanics out of
                            material taken from the engine and boiler room of the Doraine provides the motive power for the saws and the means
                            to produce ponderous, far-reaching blasts on the transferred
                            "fog-horn."
                        New and more commodious huts have gone up, roads have been blazed through
                            the forests, a logging ferry plies between the opposite shores of Mott
                            Haven, and a ship is on the ways above the landing
                            "stage."
                        At the top of Split Mountain stands a lofty wireless tower. For months it
                            has been spitting vain messages to the four winds. Out of the great
                            silences at rare intervals come faint flickers of radio calls, jumbled,
                            indistinct, undecipherable, but, for all that, definite pulse beats of a
                            far-off life.
                        Trigger Island went mad with joy when the first of these aerial
                            mutterings was reported down from the mountain-top. "Only a
                            question of time now," they cried in their delirium. But weeks
                            went by before  another sound was heard.
                            Now the report of feeble, long-separated manifestations, like vague
                            spirit-rappings, no longer caused excitement or enthusiasm, only a
                            rueful shaking of heads.
                        Lieutenant Platt's station at the top of the mountain is a rude,
                            elementary affair, notwithstanding the many weary, puzzling,
                            disheartening months spent in its construction. The damaged, almost
                            useless dynamo from the Doraine had to be repaired and
                            conveyed to the crest of the eminence; what seemed to be fruitless ages
                            were consumed in devising an engine with power sufficient to produce
                            even the feeble results that followed. And when the task of installing
                            the plant was completed, the effective radius was far short of a hundred
                            miles. Constant efforts were being made to develop greater sending
                            power, but the means at hand were inadequate, the material unobtainable.
                        The firing of the Doraine's gun had long since
                            been discontinued. The supply of shells being greatly reduced,
                            Lieutenant Platt decided to waste no more of them, but to wait for some
                            visible evidence that a vessel was within signalling distance: a shadowy
                            plume of smoke on the far horizon or the white tip of a sail peeping
                            over the rim of the world.
                        Frugality is the watchword. The days of plenty are sternly guarded so
                            that their substance may not be squandered; always there is the thought
                            of the lean year that may come, the year when the harvests fail and
                            famine stalks naked through the land.
                        The first law, therefore, is thrift. Not thrift in its common, accepted
                            sense, based on the self-denial of the individual, but a systematic
                            shoulder-to-shoulder stand for the general welfare of the community.
                            There is no such thing as waste on Trigger Island.  The grim spectre of want and privation treads softly
                            behind every mortal there, and there is none who treats its invisible
                            presence with disdain. Even the wood-ashes from stoves and fireplaces
                            are carefully hoarded in hoppers, for the alkaline solution obtained by
                            treating them with water is lye. This lye is being used chiefly in the
                            production of a soap not unlike that made by thrifty farmers'
                            wives in the Argentine, experimentation with the pulpy fruit of a tree
                            belonging to the variety known as Sapindus marginatus
                            bringing about rather astonishing results.
                        For many months of the year the people wear sandals on their bare feet.
                            Only those who toil in the forests don the uncouth boots turned out by
                            the firm of cobblers known as Block & Nicklestick. Shoes, boots
                            and slippers of another day are zealously guarded by their owners, in
                            anticipation of still another day, the day of deliverance.
                            "Waste not, want not," is the motto of Trigger Island.
                        The second winter brought a double catastrophe, and for days thereafter
                            deepest gloom prevailed. Even the stout-hearted Percival drooped under
                            the weight of it.
                        Fire wiped out the work of months in the space of a few bleak, bitter
                            hours. The sturdy little ship that was so well along toward completion
                            was destroyed.
                        Months of faithful, patient, dogged toil had resulted in the construction
                            of a stout hull which stood proudly on the ways to be admired and
                            glorified by the eager, confident supporters of the determined little
                            band of builders. Six weeks more would have seen the vessel off the ways
                            and floating gaily on the surface of the snug little basin, ready for
                            the final touches, the provisioning and the ultimate departure of the
                            hardy company that was to take her out into the open stretches  in quest of the helping hand. For weeks a
                            devoted, one-minded community had been preparing food, raiment and
                            comforts for the men who were to go forth in the new Doraine. The masts and spars were in place, the forecastle and
                            cabin were almost ready for occupancy, the galley was nearing
                            completion, and then came swift, relentless disaster.
                        The night was cold and windy. Down at the water's edge, almost
                            under the bulging side of the ship, two men had their quarters at one
                            end of the low, rambling carpenter shop. At the other end was located
                            the forge. The very thing they were there to guard against happened on
                            this miserable night. Fire broke out in the forge.
                        The man on watch had fallen asleep. His name was Smiley. It is mentioned
                            here for the only time in this narrative.
                        Shortly before midnight, his companion was awakened by the smell of
                            smoke. He scrambled out of his blankets on the floor, and cursed the man
                            who still slept in his chair beside the smoke-befogged lantern on the
                            end of a carpenter's bench. Flames were creeping along the
                            wooden partition separating the forge from the shop. Half a mile away
                            three hundred men were sleeping, but half a mile is half a mile. Before
                            the watchmen could sound the alarm, after their first courageous efforts
                            to subdue the blaze, the building was a roaring mass of flames and a
                            gleeful wind had carried tongues of fire to the side of the vessel where
                            they licked shapeless black patterns at first and then swiftly turned
                            them to red.
                        Stark-eyed, shivering people stood far back among the trees throughout
                            the rest of the night and watched the work of months go up in flame and
                            smoke. Nothing  could be done to save the
                            ship. Hewn from the hardiest trees in the forest, caulked and fortified
                            to defy the most violent assaults of water, she was like paper in the
                            clutch of flames. In the grey of early morn the stricken people slunk
                            back to their cabins and gave up hope. For not only was their ship
                            destroyed but the priceless tools and implements with which she had been
                            built were gone as well. It was the double catastrophe that took the
                            life, the spirit, out of them.
                        And while the day was still breaking, the man who had slept at his post,
                            stole off into the forest and cut his throat from ear to ear.
                        But now, months afterward, another ship is on the ways. Indomitable,
                            undaunted, the builders rose above disaster and set to work again. New
                            tools were fashioned from steel and iron and wood, saws, chisels,
                            sledges, planes and hammers in fact, everything except the baffling
                            augurs. Resolute, unbeaten hands toiled anew, and this time the humble
                            craft was not to be given a luckless name.
                        Superstition was rife. All save Andrew Mott saw ill-omen in the name
                            "Doraine." Steadfastly he maintained that as the Doraine had brought them safely to the island, guided
                            by a divine Providence, a Doraine could be trusted to
                            take them as miraculously away. And as for changing the name of his
                            prattling ward, he fairly roared his objection; though an uncommonly
                            mild man for a sailor, he uttered such blasphemous things to a group of
                            well-meaning women that even Sheriff Soapy Shay was aghast.
                        After the dreary period that followed the disaster, there came a sharp
                            awakening as from a dream filled with horrors. Something lying dormant
                            in the common  breast had stirred. It was
                            the unbeaten spirit that would not die. These men and women lifted up
                            their heads and beheld the star of hope undimmed. In a flash, the aspect
                            changed.
                        "We must start all over again," was the cry that awoke
                            them, and from that time on there was no such word as fail in the
                            lexicon of Trigger Island.
                        Slowly, laboriously out of the ashes rose a new hull, a stauncher one
                            than its ill-fated predecessor. The year wasted in the building of the
                            first ship was lamented but not mourned. Cheerfulness, even optimism,
                            prevailed throughout the village. No man, no woman lifted the voice of
                            complaint. Resignation took the form of stoicism. A sort of dogged
                            taciturnity was measurably relieved by the never-failing spirit of
                            camaraderie. There was even a touch of bravado in the attitude of these
                            people toward each other, as of courage kept up by scoffing. Even Death,
                            on his sombre visits, was regarded with a strange derision by those who
                            continued to spin. They had cheated him not once but many times, and
                            they mocked him in their souls.
                        "I'm not afraid of Death," was Buck
                            Chizler's contribution. "I've just discovered
                            that Death is the rottenest coward in the world. He either waits till
                            you get too blamed old to fight, or else he jumps on you when you
                            ain't looking, or when you're so weak from sickness
                            you don't care what happens. I used to be afraid of Death. And
                            why? Because I wasn't onto the old bum. Why, look at what he
                            does. He jumps onto weeny little babies and feeble old women and and
                            horses. Now, I'm onto him, and I ain't got any use for
                            a cheap sport, not me."
                        The little community had taken to religion. As is  invariably the case, adversity seeks surcease in some form
                            of piety. Men who had not entered a church since the days of their
                            childhood, men who had scoffed at the sentimentality of religion, now
                            found consolation in the thing they had once despised. They were abashed
                            and bewildered at first, as one after another they fell into the habit
                            of attending services. They were surprised to find something that they
                            needed, something that made life simpler and gentler for them, something
                            uplifting.
                        "We're a queer mess of Puritans," reflected
                            Randolph Fitts. "You know that parrot of old Bob
                            Carr's? Well, he took it out and wrung its neck last night,
                            after all the time, and trouble, and patience he spent in giving her a
                            swell private education. There never was a bird that could swear so
                            copiously as that bird of Bob's. He taught her everything she
                            knew. He worked day and night to provide her with an up-to-date
                            vocabulary. He used to lie awake nights thinking up new words for old
                            Polly to conquer. Now he says the blamed old rip was deceiving him all
                            the time. She began springing expletives on him that he'd never
                            heard of before in all his forty years before the mast. She first began
                            using them a couple of months ago when he undertook to reform her. He
                            started in to teach her to say 'good gracious' and
                            'goodness me' and 'hoity-toity' and
                            all such stuff, and she cursed so loud and so long that he had to throw
                            a bucket of water on her.
                        "Every time he came home from church, that red-headed harridan
                            would open up on him with such a string of vituperation that he had to
                            hold his ears so's not to forget himself and backslide. Well,
                            it got so that Bob couldn't live with her any longer.  She simply wouldn't puritanize.
                            The nearest he ever got her to saying 'good' was when
                            she said it with only one 'o,' and then as prefix to
                            'dammit.' So he decided the only way to reform her was
                            to murder her. She managed to nip a piece out of his hand while he was
                            doing it, however, and he's had the hump all day because he
                            fell from grace and said something he'd oughtn't to.
                            Yes, sir; we're a queer mess of Puritans. Look at us.
                            Catholics, Presbyterians, Baptists, Methodists, Jews, infidels,
                            Theosophists, even Christian Scientists, all rolled up into one big
                            bundle labeled: 'Handle with Prayer.' We know nearly
                            all the Ten Commandments by heart, and the Beatitudes flow from us in
                            torrents. My wife was saying only the other night that if Sheriff Shay
                            didn't arrest that bird for using profane language,
                            she'd start a petition to have Hello, Soapy! I didn't
                            know you were present."
                        "What was she going to do?" demanded the Sheriff of
                            Trigger Island.
                        "There's no use telling you now. It's too
                            late. Polly has gone to a place I don't dare mention, so
                            what's the use talking about it?"
                        "I can't go 'round pinchin''
                            fallen parrots," growled Soapy. "Besides, I'm
                            the feller that learned her most of the cuss-words old Bob never heard
                            before. I never saw a bird that was so anxious to improve. She used to
                            set there with her ear cocked, just simply crazy to learn something new.
                            Every time she'd see me coming she'd begin to hop up
                            and down on her perch and call me names, figurin' I'd
                            lose my temper and give her a tongue lashin'. Gosh,
                            I'm glad she's dead. It was gettin' to be an
                            awful nuisance chasing parrots out of the trees back of Bob's
                            house.  They got so's
                            they'd come down there and set around all day pickin'
                            up things she said. Somebody told me the other day he heard a parrot
                            'way up in the woods swearin' like a sailor. He fired
                            a club at it, and what do you think it said to him?"
                        "If you weren't such an ungodly liar, Soapy,
                            I'd ask you," said Chief Justice Malone.
                        Soapy regarded him sorrowfully.
                        "If you keep on sayin' things like that, Judge,
                            I'll have to tell your wife you ain't true to
                            her," said he.
                        "And that would be the most prodigious lie you ever told," exclaimed Mr. Malone.
                        "Sure. You and me know it's a lie, but you'd
                            ketch hell, just the same."
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II
                        THE population of Trigger Island has increased.
                        Following the example of Buck Chizler and the Governor himself, scores of
                            dubious lovers took heart. They succeeded in dispelling certain
                            misgivings and doubts lurking in the hearts, not to say consciences, of
                            approximately three-fourths of the unmarried women on the island, with
                            the result that Father Francisco and Parson Mackenzie were kept
                            exceedingly busy for a number of weeks.
                        The "state," guided by the newly elected Chief Justice,
                            extracted vows even more severe than those incorporated in the marriage
                            service. And yet, despite the emphatic declarations of certain
                            candidates, principally male, there remained in the minds of all,
                            including brides, a lingering doubt. On the other hand, several ardent
                            and undoubtedly honest gentlemen were unable to marry the objects of
                            their affection for the simple reason that too many people were able to
                            recall the lamentations of the ladies themselves, in the early days when
                            it was customary to suffer because of the suspense and agony their poor
                            husbands were enduring at home.
                        The case of Joe Hooker and Matilda Larson was particularly distressing,
                            and ultimately led to the passage of a rather drastic law by the
                            Council. Judge Malone was the father of this law. It provided for the
                            automatic annulment of all previous marriages at the expiration of two
                            years, provided, however, the  absent
                            husband or wife didn't turn up to contest the matter. This law
                            also granted absolute freedom to the absent husband or wife, who was
                            thereby authorized to remarry without further notice, or words to that
                            effect. It was, declared Randolph Fitts, a perfectly just and equable
                            law, and would no doubt ease the minds of quite a number of people in
                            far-off lands, if they ever heard of it.
                        Joe and Matilda had been married nearly two months when, in the thick of
                            a connubial row, he demanded her passport. He even went so far as to
                            threaten her with his if she didn't produce it at once.
                            Matilda's temper was no milder than Joe's. She not
                            only dug up her passport but a marriage certificate as well, while all
                            he could show was a passport. It was a very unfortunate contretemps, in
                            view of the fact that they shortly afterwards kissed and "made
                            up." It so happened that there were quite a number of witnesses
                            to the flaunting of these damaging documents, and as Trigger Island was
                            then in the first stages of a religious upheaval, it was impossible to
                            overlook this definite instance of iniquity. Despite the recantations of
                            the chagrined couple, and, it must be added, the surreptitious
                            disappearance of the incriminating papers, the matter was brought before
                            the tribunal of justice. Chief Justice Malone was equal to the
                            emergency. Indeed, he had been expecting something of the sort, and was
                            prepared. He ordered both of the interested parties to bring suit for
                            divorce from their legal spouses, one for "failure to
                            provide," the other for "desertion," and
                            promptly granted decrees, service by publication having been obtained
                            through the medium of the Trigger Island Pioneer,
                            printed monthly by Peter Snipe, editor and publisher, limited to an  edition of one, owing to the scarcity of
                            paper, and posted conspicuously for all subscribers on the bulletin
                            board in front of the "government building."
                            Additional spice was lent to the affair by the surprising reluctance of
                            Joe and Matilda to re-enter the paradise from which they had been
                            ejected. Apparently they had had enough of each other. Moreover, they
                            had both "got religion" and insisted on repenting at
                            leisure, separately and alone. But people took a very decided stand in
                            the matter. They could repent in any manner they liked after
                            Matilda's baby was born, but not before. And so they were
                            married once more, and, strange to relate, lived happily and contentedly
                            thereafter.
                        Now, while all this may strike the reader as footless and trivial, it
                            really has a distinct place in the chronicles of Trigger Island. If,
                            perforce, the writer has succeeded in treating the situation
                            facetiously, it should not be assumed that the people of Trigger Island
                            had any desire or inclination to be funny about it. On the contrary,
                            they took it very seriously, and quite naturally so, if one stops to
                            consider the narrow confines by which their very existence was bounded.
                            There were no such things as "trifles" in the daily
                            life of Trigger Island. The smallest incident took on the importance of
                            an event, the slightest departure from the ordinary at once became
                            significant. In other circumstances, these people would have been vastly
                            amused by the quixotic settlement of the affairs of Joe and Matilda;
                            they would have grinned over the extraordinary decree of Justice Malone,
                            and they would have taken it all with an indulgent wink. As a matter of
                            fact, they were stern-faced and intense. They had made laws of their
                            own, they had established a code.  The
                            violation of either was not to be countenanced. It was of no consequence
                            to them that Judge Malone's methods were without precedent,
                            that they were not even a travesty in the true light of the law.
                        No one was more soberly in earnest than Michael Malone himself. The
                            proceedings were carried out with the utmost dignity and formality.
                            There were no smiles, no jocose comments.
                        Nothing will serve more clearly to illustrate the sense of isolation to
                            which the people of Trigger Island had resigned themselves than the fact
                            that they accepted the Judge's decision and the subsequent
                            marriage as absolutely unassailable, either from a legal or an ethical
                            point of view.
                        The town itself was flourishing. Traffic and commerce were carried on in
                            the most systematic, organized manner. Everybody was busy. The utter
                            impossibility for one man or set of men to profit at the expense of
                            others naturally put a curb upon ambitions, but it did not subdue the
                            spirit of enterprise.
                        There is a baby in the Governor's Mansion, a lusty boy with blue
                            eyes and an engaging smile. He is four months old, and his name is
                            already a house-hold word on Trigger Island. It is not Algernon, nor is
                            it Adonis. It is John; John Clinton Percival.
                        The Governor's Mansion is a pretentious structure. It has four
                            rooms and a bath! A wide porch extends along the full front of the
                            house, with a steeply pitched awning protecting it from the rain and
                            sun. At one end of the porch is a very cosy arrangement of hand-wrought
                            chairs and a commodious swinging seat. The other end, just off the
                            parental bed-chamber, has been  converted
                            into an out-door sleeping-room for John C. Percival. The
                            Governor's lady has no nursemaid. She does her own housework,
                            her own washing and ironing, and she takes care of her own baby. (There
                            is no such thing on Trigger Island as a servant. More than one woman who
                            reads this tale will sigh and murmur something about Paradise.) Ruth
                            still teaches in the little school. Though she is the first lady of the
                            land, she supports herself, she earns her daily bread. It is the law
                            irrevocable. There are no distinctions. Nor would she have it otherwise.
                        The "Mansion," as it was universally called, stands
                            alone at the upper end of the Green, facing the meeting-house. The
                            nearest hut is at least two hundred yards away. Work on its construction
                            was begun the day after the wedding. For weeks men had toiled eagerly,
                            enthusiastically, voluntarily, and in the first gay days of spring it
                            was completed. Since then the same hands, the same thoughts, the same
                            interests were constantly employed in improvements, not only to the
                            house itself but to the grounds about it. The Governor's
                            "Mansion" became the plaything of the people.
                            Percival's protests were received with amiable grins.
                        "It's our house, boss, not yours," explained
                            Buck Chizler, whose spare time was largely expended in the development,
                            you might almost say, the financing, of a flower-bed on the lawn. It was
                            to be the finest flower-bed of them all, he swore. "This is
                            government property and we, the people, are going to do what we please
                            with it."
                        "That's all very fine, Buck, but don't you
                            think you ought to be spending your spare hours with your wife, instead
                            of puttering around here?"
                        
                        "Do you know who the boss of this job is? My wife. I'm
                            nothing but an ordinary day-laborer, a plain Mick, a sort of a Wop,
                            obeying orders. Good gosh, you don't think I've got
                            brains enough to design this flower-bed, do you? No, sirree! It takes an
                            artist to think up a design like this. When I get all these rocks in
                            place according to plans you'll see what I mean. It'll
                            be a hum-dinger, A. A. This here thing running off this way is the tail.
                            Come over here and look at it from this side, it's upside down
                            from where you're standin'."
                        "Tail? Tail of what?"
                        "Tail of a horse. This is going to be a horse when it's
                            finished."
                        "My God!"
                        Buck was not above being irritated by the dismay in Percival's
                            voice.
                        "Minnie's got her heart set on it, A. A.," he
                            explained. "It's going to be a sorrel horse, you see,
                            with a blue tail and a red head. Mustard, holly-hocks and geraniums is
                            what she's going to plant here when I get the bed fixed.
                            Socrates, he was the best horse I ever straddled, he was a sorrel. I
                            took him down the "
                        "As far as you've got, Buck, it looks more like a
                            dachshund than a horse," observed percival.
                        Buch eyed his work deprecatingly. "That's because there
                            ain't space enough. I had to either saw his legs off or else
                            have him layin' down. Minnie had him kneelin' in her
                            first sketch, but gosh, it was the funniest thing you ever saw. It
                            ain't possible for a horse to kneel with his hind legs, but she
                            had him doin' it all right, kneeling forward, at that, with his
                            tail stickin' straight up so's it wouldn't be
                            in the way of  his heels. It's
                            all Jack Wales's fault. He simply would put
                            that blamed sun-dial of his right in the middle of this plot, and these
                            doggoned gravel-walks running every which way give me the
                            blind-staggers. Why, A. A., you got more gravel walks here than
                            they've got in Central Park. And all these scrubby hedges,
                            stone walls, fountains, flower-beds, cedar freaks, my God, Perce,
                            I'd hate to come home a little squiffed if I lived in that
                            house of yours,'specially at night. Look at old Pedro and
                            Philippa over there, setting out that stuff that looks like
                            sparrowgrass. And that prize job of Ed Keller's, my God, A. A.,
                            what good is a dog kennel on this island? There ain't a dog
                            inside a thousand miles. The only one we ever had was that poodle old
                            Mrs. Velasco had, and it died before "
                        "That isn't a kennel, Buck."
                        "It ain't? Well, what is it?"
                        "It's a Swiss chalet."
                        "What does Ed Keller know about Swiss chalets?"
                        "Nothing, absolutely nothing, Buck," admitted Percival
                            forcibly.
                        A tall, perfectly straight flagpole graced the extensive
                            "front-yard," and from its peak floated the flag of
                            Trigger Island, a great white pennon with a red heart in the centre,
                            symbolic of love, courage, fidelity. But on the tip of Split Mountain
                            the Stars and Stripes still waves from sunrise to sunset.
                        The new cabins are farther up the slope of the mountains, overlooking
                            what is now called the "old" town. There is something
                            fairy-like in the picture one sees at night from the Green below. Dozens
                            of lighted windows gleam softly through the foliage, for all the world
                            like witches' lamps. The day reveals  thin, blue plumes of smoke stealing out of the tops of the
                            trees to be wafted off into nothingness; they come from invisible
                            chimneys far down in the leafy fastnesses. Up here are the huts of the
                            newly married. Almost without exception, they are tiny affairs, scarcely
                            larger than the metaphorical bandbox. Each contains two rooms.
                        During the very hot weather in January and February, the long, curving
                            beach is alive with oddly dressed bathers and idlers. This is at midday
                            only, when the sun is so hot and fierce that all work ceases for two
                            hours or more. Though the sun is hot, the water is never warm. A dip in
                            the surf is all that any one save the hardiest cares to take. They loll
                            on the cool white sands, under improvised shelters made of boughs, or
                            indulge in spirited games on the long level stretches. This is the
                            play-hour of the people throughout the hot months of summer. They
                            "knock off" work of all sorts, and seek relief from
                            the stifling heat of the woodland in the cool wet sands along the shore.
                        The costumes are strange and varied; some are pretty, others almost
                            ludicrous. Small children appear in a scant breech-cloth; women of all
                            ages and proportions wear a sort of one-piece
                            "jumper," arms bare and legs uncovered up to the
                            knees. The men affect nothing except trunks made from coffee sacks. The
                            few real bathing-suits belong to such experienced travellers as
                            Nicklestick, Shine and the Blocks, regular and persistent patrons of the
                            hotels at Atlantic City, Palm Beach and Rockaway. They never travel
                            without a full and complete equipment. Mr. Nicklestick, very superior in
                            his red two piece "costume," goes so far as to contend
                            that a man never should be without a bathing-suit, because, says he,
                            "it takes up  no room in your
                            trunk, and if you leave it at home some one else is sure to stretch it
                            so's you can't use it yourself again."
                        Olga Obosky and her three dancing-girls, Careni-Amori, and several of the
                            Brazilian ladies possess Ostend costumes in which they disport
                            themselves with complacent disregard for public opinion, favourable or
                            otherwise.
                        "She's got 'em all skinned a mile,"
                            was Morris Shine's comment upon Olga's lithe, graceful
                            figure. "Ain't that so, Abey?"
                        The remark was addressed to Abel Landover.
                        "Even so," returned that gentleman, glaring at the
                            offender, "it doesn't give you the right to call me
                            Abey. You've got to cut it out, Shine. Understand?"
                        "Sure," said the affable Morris. "Only
                            I've got a brother named Abraham, and that was my
                            father's name too. It comes natural to me to Why, by gracious,
                            she's got the Venus Belvedere lashed to the mast. Did you ever
                            see "
                        "I've never had the pleasure of seeing the Venus
                            Belvedere," interrupted Landover coldly.
                        "You haven't?" exclaimed Morris, amazed.
                            "The armless wonder? You ain't seen her? Why,
                            she's supposed to have the most perfect figger in the world.
                            Maybe you've seen her without knowing what her name is. They
                            never put the name on it, simply because every school boy and girl is
                            supposed to know who it is without being told. Funny you don't
                            know Oh, she ain't alive, you know, she ain't real.
                            She's a statue, thousands of 'em turned out every
                            year. Gee, the feller that designed that statue must have cleaned up a
                            pile. But, as I was saying, our little old  Olga has got her Say, did you ever see a figger
                            like that?"
                        "Yes," broke in Landover shortly,"thousands of
                            them."
                        Mr. Shine looked sceptical. "Well," he said after a
                            moment's reflection, and with studied politeness, having
                            already offended at the outset, "all I got to say is, you talk
                            like a woman, that's all I got to say."
                        Landover was a greatly changed man in these days. There had come a crisis
                            in the affairs of Trigger Island, not many weeks before the second
                            annual election in April, when he was obliged to show his true colours.
                            The banker suddenly realized with a shock that he was actually involved
                            in a well-organized, though secret plot to overthrow the so-called
                            "government." He had been completely deceived by the
                            wily Manuel Crust and several of his equally wily friends. They
                            professed to be organizing an opposition party to oust the dictatorial
                            Percival and his clique from office at the ensuing election, a feat,
                            they admitted, that could be accomplished only by the most adroit and
                            covert "educational" campaign, "under the
                            rose" perforce, but justifiable in the circumstances. They had
                            led Landover to believe that he was their choice for governor. They went
                            among the people, insidiously sowing the seeds of discontent, hinting at
                            the advantages to be obtained by the election of an entirely new set of
                            officers, mostly from among the people themselves, but headed by the
                            ablest man on the island, Abel T. Landover. They argued that as
                            treasurer and comptroller of currency he had shown himself to be the
                            only man qualified to direct the affairs of the people.
                        And Landover believed them. Despite his superior intelligence and his
                            vaunted ability to size up his fellow 
                            man, he was as blind and unsuspecting as a child when it came to
                            penetrating the real motives of the conspirators. Vain, self-important,
                            possessed of an abnormal conceit, men of his type go ahead ruthlessly,
                            ignoring the details, bent only on achieving the ultimate. In
                            Landover's case, he made the fatal error of underestimating the
                            craftiness of Manuel Crust; he looked upon him as a blatant, ignorant
                            ruffian of the stripe best known to him as a "beer saloon
                            politician," and known only by hearsay, at that. He regarded
                            himself as the master-politician and Crust as a contemptible necessity.
                        As a matter of fact, Crust was using him to very materially advance his
                            own ends. The big Portuguese had a very definite purpose in mind. He had
                            no more intention of making Landover the chief man of the island than he
                            had of flying to the moon. He, Manuel Crust, was to have that
                            distinction! He despised Landover and all that he represented. He hated
                            him because he was rich, educated, favoured by fortune, and given to
                            washing himself with unnecessary frequency and thoroughness. Manuel was
                            foul of body as well as foul at heart. He bitterly resented the sanitary
                            rules set up and enforced by the Council because those rules interfered
                            with what he was pleased to call his personal liberty. Why should he be required to wash himself if he didn't
                            want to do so? And why should he do a great many silly things that Dr.
                            Cullen ordered, just because a lot of aristocrats were in the habit of
                            doing them?
                        His hatred of Landover, however, was impersonal. The banker merely
                            represented a class. On the other hand, he hated Percival as an
                            individual; he hated him with every drop of blood in his black, venomous
                            heart.  He had a certain grudging regard,
                            it might even be called respect, for the class to which Landover
                            belonged; he was sometimes conscious of a strange but quite positive
                            sense of his own inferiority. But he did not for an instant put Percival
                            in the class with Landover. He looked upon the young American as being
                            no better than himself, and yet the people from the Doraine had showered honours upon him, had made him their chief,
                            had suffered him, a vagabond without a penny to his name, to marry the
                            fairest and rarest woman of them all. What right had this interloper to
                            everything that was worth having, while he, an honest fellow who always
                            had paid his way, was denied even the smallest place in the councils of
                            the land? What right had he, a tramp, to sit upon a throne?
                        Landover was an unwitting, but thoroughly self-satisfied dupe. He fitted
                            in very nicely with Manuel's plan to gain control of the
                            island. There were certain people who regarded the great banker as an
                            apostle, a man to follow, to be imitated, such men as Block, Nicklestick
                            and a few others. Was he not one of the great financial geniuses of the
                            day? Was he not a power, a tremendous power, in the banking world? Was
                            he not a man who understood how to transform a dollar into a business
                            block almost over night? For a time, sentiment had played tricks with
                            their boasted astuteness. Swept along by the current, they had failed to
                            appreciate the true conditions. They began to realize that it had been a
                            mistake to keep such men as Percival in power; behind the hand they went
                            about convincing each other that it was high time to rectify the
                            original error. These, in addition to the ignorant, easily persuaded
                            rabble from the steerage, who, by the way, could give ample testimony as
                            to Percival's  ability to
                            "bluff," provided Crust with a decidedly formidable
                            following. The steerage people had but to be reminded of the time when
                            Percival tricked them so successfully.
                        Crust contended that if the American could fool them once, he would do so
                            again, in fact, he went so far as to say that he had been doing it all
                            the time.
                        There was nothing open and above board about the methods of Manuel Crust.
                            He proceeded about the business of fomenting dissatisfaction and strife
                            with an artfulness surprising in one of his type. At no time did he
                            openly denounce the "government." He was very careful
                            about that. A jesting word here, a derisive smile there, a shrug of the
                            shoulders, and in good time others less politic than himself began to do
                            the talking. Others began to complain of the high-handed, dictatorial
                            manner in which Percival and his friends ruled the community.
                        The secret, stealthy opposition grew apace; it assumed sinister
                            proportions, all the more sinister because it was masked by every
                            outward sign of submission. Crust had won friends right and left among
                            the very people who would have killed him not so many months before but
                            for the very man he was planning to destroy.
                        Outwardly he had changed, not subtly, it is true, from a sullen,
                            threatening bully into a hearty, smiling, sympathetic comrade who laid
                            himself out to be obliging. Even Percival was puzzled, if not deceived,
                            by this surprising transformation.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III
                        IT was Olga Obosky who discovered and exposed the plot. A young Spaniard
                            had fallen hopelessly, madly in love with her. He was a good-looking,
                            hard-eyed boy from the pampas, a herder who was on his way to visit his
                            mother in from Rio. He was a "gun-slinger," bearing
                            close relationship to the type of cowboy that existed in the old days of
                            the Far West but who is now extinct save for pictorial perpetuation on
                            the moving-picture screens.
                        Down in his wild young heart smouldered a furious jealousy of Percival.
                            Crust played upon this jealousy to fine effect. He did not hesitate to
                            feed the flame with sly speculations, innuendos and even tales
                            concerning Percival and Olga.
                        One day the Spaniard, in the midst of his violent protestations and
                            pleadings, became reckless with promises to Olga. He swore that if she
                            would have him he would make her the first lady of the land in place of
                            the stupid American girl who now held the honour. Then, having loosed
                            his tongue, he poured out the whole of the ugly scheme which was to
                            alter every existing condition on the island. The wiping out of the
                            dictator and his swell-headed gang of "intellectuals";
                            the seizure of all firearms, ammunition and stores; the complete
                            subjugation of the people, even to the point of slavery; the elevation
                            of Manuel Crust and his followers to a state of absolute power; the
                            confiscation of all property, including women! He navely advised her to
                            jump at the chance offered her, the chance to  avoid the most unpleasant feature of the new rgime.
                        "As my woman," he said, "you will be safe. It
                            is understood. It is all arranged. If you belong to me, nothing can
                            happen to you. We shall be of the elect. I am to be of the council. I am
                            to be one of the masters, the "
                        "But," she cried, scarcely able to believe her ears,
                            "how is all this to be accomplished? How will the few overcome
                            the many? You say there are scarcely more than a dozen of you, my
                            friend. What can a dozen men do to "
                        "It will be simple," cried he, his eyes flaming.
                            "How is it that Percival and his little gang hold all of us in
                            bondage? It is because they have the guns, the revolvers, the bullets.
                            Well, we shall have the guns, and everything. When the time comes, when
                            the people have voted in the election and a new party is in control,
                            then we will have our chance. We will have the upper hand. To hell with
                            the people, Olga. They will count for nothing once we have charge of the
                            guns and stores. This Percival he has ordered the election. He insists
                            that the people be given a chance to vote once a year, to elect some one
                            to take his place if they feel like it. He says it is only fair. Faugh!
                            He laughs in his sleeve. Come! Your promise! I love you. I must have you
                            for my woman. I cannot live without you. I will give you power to spit
                            in the face of that woman down there that American aristocrat! We will
                            be rich, we will be happy, we will have everything. Diamonds and pearls
                            and rubies and all the gold there is on this island. We will be the ones
                            to go away in the ship, and we will have jewels to shame the richest of
                            them."
                        "We you and Manuel and the rest are to go  away in the ship?" she cried, cold to the marrow
                            of her bones.
                        "Sure. Why not? Are we not to be the owners of that ship? It is
                            your chance to go back to the world again, with me! Oh, and I agree to
                            this also: If you do not want me any longer after you are in Rio or
                            Buenos Aires or anywhere out there, if you would rather be free again, I
                            promise to release you. What could be fairer than that? Nothing! I shall
                            kill myself, of course, when you leave me, but still I promise, and I
                            never break a promise. But I shall love you so much that you will never
                            leave me. You are my queen. Hell, how I love you how I love
                            you!" His face darkened, then slowly paled. He realized that he
                            had gone too far. Leaning close to her, his frightened eyes not a foot
                            from hers, he said: "You cannot deny me now. I have told you
                            everything. I do not know why I have told you. I must be crazy with love
                            of you. Ah, the look in your beautiful eyes! God, how it takes the
                            weight off my mind. You will love me, you will be mine, I see it in your
                            eyes. When? When?"
                        She affected a bantering smile. She knew how to play with such fools as
                            he.
                        "Do you think I am a fool? How do I know you are not lying to me
                            about all this? It may be a trick to influence me. No, no! I am not such
                            a simpleton. You promise me diamonds, and gold, and much love. You
                            promise to take me away from this dreadful place on a ship, back to the
                            world I worship. But you may be lying. I must have something better than
                            your word, my friend."
                        "But I am telling you the truth. I swear it!" he cried
                            eagerly.
                        
                        "Keep your hands off of me, do you hear! Don't touch
                            me! Not yet, not yet. I must have some proof that you can give me all
                            these things you offer. Will you have Manuel Crust guarantee that
                            "
                        "My God, Manuel, he must not know I have spoken to you. He must
                            never know," he gasped. "Take my word, believe me,
                            beloved one. It is the God's truth I tell you. Within the month
                            I will lay diamonds, pearls, everything, at your feet. I "
                        "Leave me now. Come again, tomorrow. I must think. I must
                            "
                        "But you will love me? You will come to me? You "
                        "You are a very handsome boy," she said softly,
                            "and I should like to believe you."
                        He followed her for a few steps, trouble in his eyes.
                        "It is not enough. I must have your promise," he said.
                        She looked at him coldly. "You will have it when I am ready to
                            give it," she said, and his face lightened for a moment, only
                            to darken again.
                        "I will cut your heart out if you breathe a word of this to any
                            one," he whispered hoarsely.
                        "Is that the way for a lover to speak?" she returned.
                        "Yes," he said without hesitation. "It is the
                            way with me."
                        "Come to me tomorrow and tell me exactly what my share of the
                            treasure is to be, and then I will let you know whether it is to be you
                            or Manuel Crust, my friend. Oh, you see, I am greedy, and I can love
                            Manuel quite as easily as I can love "
                        "I will cut his heart out if you "
                        
                        "There there! It will not be necessary. Come tomorrow."
                        That same afternoon she went to Percival with the Spaniard's
                            story.
                        "Well, we'll nip that in the
                            bud," said he, setting his jaw. "The first thing to do
                            is to warn Landover."
                        "Warn Landover!" cried the Russian. "He is all
                            mix up in it, he is one of ze ringleaders."
                        "No, he isn't. He's not that kind of a man. He
                            doesn't know a thing about all this, I'll stake my
                            life on it."
                        "But, Olga," cried Ruth, white-faced and troubled;
                            "Fernandez will kill you. He will, Good heaven, girl, did he
                            not swear to cut your heart out if you "
                        "Poof!" cried the other, snapping her fingers.
                            "He will not do zat, my dear. I am not afraid. Do you know what
                            happens to informers in my country? They vanish. No one ever sees them
                            again, and no one ever asks where they have gone. They are here today
                            tomorrow they are not. It is the same the world over."
                        "You mean, Manuel's men will make way with him? How
                            horrible!"
                        "Do not waste your sympathy on zat Fernandez. He is no good. You
                            would see what kind of man he is if this plot should succeed."
                        "But you will have to give him your answer tomorrow,"
                            cried Ruth.
                        Olga shot a keen glance at Percival's face.
                        "It is for you to say, Percivail, what my answer shall
                            be," said she, after a slight pause. A queer pallor spread over
                            her face.
                        "For me to say?" he exclaimed.
                        
                        "Are you not the governor? If it suits your plans for me to give
                            myself to zat man "
                        "My God, Olga! What the devil are you driving at?"
                        " to satisfy him until you are prepared to nip zis revolution in
                            the bud, as you say, I shall "
                        "Thunderation!" he gasped. "You mean you would
                            sacrifice yourself Great Scot! What do you think I'm expecting
                            to do? Go to sleep for a month or so? Bless your heart, my dear Olga, if
                            you are even thinking of getting married to Fernandez,
                            you'll have to be pretty spry about it. Because I'm
                            going to nip the business in the bud before tomorrow morning."
                        "Zat is what I thought," said she, the colour rushing
                            back to her face.
                        That evening Percival called a meeting of the
                            "cabinet," as the council was now called. They were
                            asked to come to his home, instead of to the meeting-house. This, of
                            itself, was surprising. Landover had never set foot inside the
                            "governor's mansion." While his attitude
                            toward the "governor's lady" was studiedly
                            courteous, he made no effort to resume the intimate and friendly
                            relationship that existed before her marriage to his enemy. Contact with
                            Percival was unavoidable. They met frequently in
                            "cabinet" conferences, but avoided each other at all
                            other times.
                        He came to this hastily called meeting, however, and Percival was the
                            only man present who was not dumbfounded. Sheriff Shay, in summoning the
                            members to this secret meeting, had delivered a message that Landover
                            could not well afford to ignore.
                        Seventeen men were crowded into the little sitting-room of the house.
                            Each one of them bore a high-sounding 
                            title. There were present, besides Percival, State Treasurer Landover,
                            Chief Justice Malone, Minister of War Platt, Minister of Marine Mott,
                            Minister of Agriculture Pedro Drom, State Clerk Flattner, Surgeon
                            General Cullen, Lord High Sheriff Shay, and the following members of the
                            Executive Council: Snipe, Block, Jones, Fitts, Knapendyke, Calkins, Ruiz
                            and Alvara. Ruiz was a Chilean merchant and Alvara a Brazilian coffee
                            grower. Calkins was an English cattle buyer.
                        Percival, with his customary abruptness, announced that there was a plot
                            on foot to destroy the present government and turn the island over to
                            the mercy of a gang of desperadoes headed by Manuel Crust.
                        Landover was on his feet in an instant.
                        "I am in a position, gentlemen, to declare that there is not a
                            word of truth in that statement. It is true there is a very definite
                            movement on foot to organize a new party to contest the election of many
                            of us who are gathered here tonight. The people want a change. They are
                            dissatisfied. They have a right to vote as they please, to choose their
                            own "
                        "We are not here to discuss the election, Mr.
                            Landover," broke in Percival. "Before we go any
                            farther, however, I wish to state that if you are chosen Governor of
                            Trigger Island, you will find no one more willing and ready to serve you
                            than I. But, that is beside the question. If you will listen to me, I
                            will tell you exactly what it is that confronts us. The election next
                            month is to be the signal for all kinds of hell. You may be elected
                            governor, Mr. Landover, but you will not be allowed to serve. Now, here
                            is the story that came to me today, and I can vouch for it. I am
                            authorized, in fact I am commanded to reveal to  you the name of my informant. You may be sure I did my
                            best to prevail upon her to remain unknown, for the present, at least,
                            but she threatened to go forth and shout her story from the housetops if
                            I did not do as she wished."
                        The conference ended an hour later, and Abel Landover had shown his true
                            colours at last. He stood up, his face drawn and haggard, his eyes
                            ablaze, his voice husky, and addressed the group.
                        "Gentlemen, I have been wrong. I am grateful to Mr. Percival for
                            his generosity in warning me of the danger into which I was rushing. We
                            have not been friends. He could have left me to my fate. I would not
                            have blamed him. He has played fair, and I have not. I ask you all to
                            bear witness to that humiliating admission. I have argued here tonight
                            against all of you, when down in my heart I had the sickening fear that
                            this damnable story is true. I now believe it to be true. I now see
                            through the whole devilish game.
                        "I give you my word of honour as a gentleman and an American, I
                            did not realize the true conditions until tonight. Perhaps I might have
                            found out in time to upset their plans, but that is doubtful. These men
                            are smart. They are natural born plotters. They are dark men with dark
                            souls. This fellow Fernandez has fooled me completely. He is a gay,
                            smiling boy, but now that I have heard Madame Obosky's account
                            of him, I recall many little traits in his make-up that go far to
                            substantiate my new opinion of him. I never quite understood till now
                            why he hated you, Percival. Frankly, I knew that he had it in his heart
                            to kill you. Crust has told me of his difficulty in keeping him from
                            running a knife into you. I thought it 
                            was all talk, boyish bravado, but now I know he meant it."
                        He lifted his head and set his jaw. "Gentlemen, I have a
                            shameful confession to make. Ever since I can remember, my sole thought
                            has been to rule. I did not know what it was to take orders from another
                            man until I came to this island. My whole being has been in revolt. The
                            thought uppermost in my mind for two years has been to re-establish
                            myself as a dominating force. To that end, I have played pretty bad
                            politics. I have worked upon the credulity and cupidity of these men,
                            promising them positions of authority if I were chosen by vote to govern
                            the affairs of this island. But, I am sure you all will believe me when
                            I say that it was my purpose to administer those affairs honestly,
                            fairly and as capably as I knew how. I was not only deceived by these
                            men, but by myself as well. I have played, like a blundering fool, into
                            their hands. My chagrin is beyond words. I can only say to you now that
                            you may count upon my unfailing support in any action you may decide to
                            take. My forebears were honest, loyal, law-abiding Americans. I I think
                            I may say without fear of contradiction that it is impossible for me to
                            run otherwise than true to form.
                        "I lied, Percival, to Ruth Clinton about the encounter in my
                            stateroom on the Doraine. Believe me or not as you see
                            fit, but I think that was the only deliberate lie I have ever told in my
                            life. I have done a great many high-handed things, I have been
                            inconsiderate of others, I have crushed opposition in my own way, I have
                            never allowed myself to acknowledge defeat. My hand has been against you
                            since the day you appeared on the decks of the Doraine. It was not in my  nature to
                            see good in you. To me, you were a good-for-nothing Well, I'm
                            glad to see you smile! That is the devil with you, your confounded
                            smile. I ask you to overlook what I have said, and done and been,
                            Percival, and shake hands. You have nothing to apologize for. There
                            never has been a time in all these months that I have not felt you to be
                            a real man, an honest one, and a gentleman. I think I know an honest man
                            when I see one, indeed, it is my business to read men, and I rarely make
                            a mistake."
                        As the two men shook hands, Randolph Fitts remarked drily:
                        "Seems to me I remember your saying something of the sort the
                            first day you ever laid eyes on A. A., Abel."
                        "The trouble is," put in Soapy Shay sarcastically,
                            "you don't know a dishonest one when you see him,
                            Bill."
                        "Vell, let's get down to business," said Moses
                            Block nervously. "Ve must go slow and careful-like. If ve show
                            our hands too soon, they will uprise and vell, I don't know
                            vat!"
                        "Mr. Mott, what would you do if you got wind of a plot like this
                            aboard ship?" inquired Percival, his eyes narrowing.
                        "I would have the whole gang in chains before morning. Then
                            I'd give 'em a taste of the 'cat' at
                            day-break, and before noon I'd have the ringleaders hanging
                            from a yard-arm," said Andrew Mott, succinctly.
                        "Oh, my gracious!" gulped Mr. Block.
                        "Now, I'll tell you what would happen up in Copper-head
                            Camp," said Percival, darkly. "They would get a
                            beautiful cow-hiding and then sentenced to wear a ball and chain, day
                            and night, for anywhere from six  months
                            to two years, depending largely on the process of regeneration. My
                            experience has been that six months is enough."
                        "We wouldn't dare do that, A. A.," said Fitts.
                            "You must not forget public sentiment, and public pity.
                            I've got a better plan. How far out is that little island off
                            New Gibraltar, Platt?"
                        "A quarter of a mile, I should say."
                        "Well, if they're not satisfied with life and
                            conditions here, let's make 'em a present of a nice
                            little island of their own. That's what I've always
                            advocated as the proper way to treat anarchists. Stick 'em away
                            on an island completely surrounded by sharks and let 'em run it
                            to suit themselves."
                        "But there are no sharks in these waters," said
                            Flattner. "They'd swim over here some night and slit
                            all our throats."
                        "Not a chance. They hate water too much to have ever learned how
                            to swim. Now, here's the scheme. Round up as many of them as
                            we're dead sure about, row 'em out to the island, dump
                            'em with enough food and water to last a week, supply them with
                            tents and beds and tools, and let 'em build their own
                            penitentiary. They'll have to do it or freeze next winter. Once
                            a week send food and drink out to them. The water is a hundred fathoms
                            deep between Trigger Island and that little green wart out there on the
                            face of the ocean. It will look like a million miles to them. How does
                            it strike you, gentlemen?"
                        Off the precipitous western extremity of Trigger Island lies a tiny scrap
                            of tree-covered land. It is perhaps one hundred yards wide and thrice as
                            long. An exploring party had visited it shortly after the wreck of the
                                Doraine, but since then no one had set  foot upon its shores. Its steep slopes,
                            densely wooded, viewed from afar, suggested a mountain top sticking up
                            out of the sea. By boat, skirting the coast, it was a good ten miles
                            distant from the town.
                        Three men were seized that night and put through a rigid examination.
                            Early the next morning twelve more were taken, Manuel Crust among them.
                            Half of them, in their terror, "squealed." Crust
                            himself was one of these. Almost before the people of the town knew what
                            was afoot, the fifteen had been tried, convicted, and were on their way
                            to the landing where boats were waiting to take them and their
                            belongings off into exile. As for the conspirators themselves, the blow
                            was so swift, so sudden, that they were dazed. It was like a bolt out of
                            a clear sky.
                        Judge Malone sent them to "the Island" for
                            indeterminate periods. At stated intervals they were to be released, one
                            by one, and restored to citizenship. The shortest term of exile,
                            however, was one year. The releases were to be decided by lot, except in
                            the case of three men: Crust, Fernandez and an Irish sailor named Clark.
                            They were the ringleaders and they were to remain on "the
                            Island" until the time came for them to go aboard the relief
                            ship with all the other citizens of Trigger. At the end of the first
                            year, and once a month thereafter for twelve months, drawings were to be
                            held, and the man whose name was drawn would be released.
                        "You are prisoners of state," said Judge Malone, in
                            passing sentence. "The state is obliged to feed you, and clothe
                            you, and sustain you if you fall ill, no matter how bitterly it goes
                            against the grain. You will not be obliged to work, or wash, or observe
                            a single law. You may rob each other to your hearts' content,
                                 you may murder each other with
                            perfect impunity, you may do just as you like. We started out to conduct
                            the affairs of this island along lines laid down by the Golden Rule. I
                            have come to the conclusion that the Golden Rule would be all right if
                            it were not for the human race. I am beginning to believe that the Rule
                            of Iron is the only one for the people of this earth to live under, and
                            that is a pretty hard thing for an Irishman to say. You men ought to be
                            lined up against a wall and shot. We do not feel that we have the right
                            to take your lives. It is not in our hearts to destroy you, as you would
                            have destroyed us. But you may not dwell among us."
                        Fernandez, wild with fury, shrieked vengeance upon the head of Olga
                            Obosky. Out of his ravings, the unsavoury crew gleaned enough to
                            convince them that he was responsible for their present unhappy plight.
                        "You will pay for this, you snake!" he yelled, foaming
                            at the mouth and shaking his fist at her. "I will drink your
                            heart's blood! Remember what Joe Fernandez says. I will come
                            back here and get you, Oh, I will get you, and when I
                            am through with you your dog of a lover may have what is left. I will
                            cut you to pieces! I swear it I swear it! Hear my oath! You
                            double-crossed me! You squealed on me! I will come back, and I will
                            drink your heart's blood! I swear it!"
                        He spat in her direction as he was dragged away with the rest of the
                            gang. Through his glittering, blood-shot eyes he saw the cool, derisive
                            sneer on her red lips. He had failed, however, to note the keen,
                            appraising look with which she searched the faces of his baffled,
                            glowering companions. In that long, tense look she had seen dawning
                            comprehension change to conviction;  she
                            had read his doom, so she could, in perfect security, give him that
                            scoffing, heartless smile to take with him on the journey from which he
                            was never to return.
                        Fifteen men went out to "the Island" that afternoon.
                            From that day, the authorities provided weekly rations for that number
                            of men. To this day they are ignorant of the fact that there are but
                            fourteen mouths to feed.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER IV
                        IN the cool of a balmy January evening, following what had been the
                            hottest day the castaways had experienced since coming to Trigger
                            Island, a group of men and women sat upon the Governor's porch.
                            There was no moon, but the sky was speckled with millions of stars.
                        Olga Obosky, sitting on the squared log that served as a step, leaned
                            back against the awning post, her legs stretched out in luxurious
                            abandon. She was fanning herself, and her breath came rapidly,
                            pantingly. Now and then she patted her moist face with a handkerchief.
                        "How warm you are, Olga," said Ruth, who sat beside
                            her. "And you must be dreadfully tired."
                        "I am hot, but I am not tired," replied the other.
                            "I could dance all night, my dear, without tiring. Did you
                            really like the children, Ruth?"
                        "They were lovely. You have done wonders with them."
                        "Regular Isadora Duncan stuff," sighed Peter Snipe,
                            drawing lazily at his pipe. "Woodland nymphs, phantom pixies
                            floating on the wind, zephyrs in the guise of fairies, dreams come true,
                            my dear Olga, you are a sorceress. You change clods into moonbeams, you
                            turn human beings into vapours, you cast the mantle of enchantment over
                            the midsummer night, and we see Oberon, Titania and all the rest of them
                            disporting on the breeze. And to think that only this afternoon I saw
                            all of those gawky girls working in the fields, their legs the colour of
                            tan bark, with sandals that  looked like
                            canal-boats, skirts made of hemp, just regular kids. And you transform
                            them tonight into gleaming cloudlets to float upon the ambient
                            atmosphere "
                        "For heaven's sake, Pete, stop being an author and talk
                            like a real man," interrupted Fitts. "Can't
                            you say, 'Gee, they was great, Olger'?"
                        It was "Twelfth Night," and Olga's pupils had
                            given a fairy dance on the Green. To conclude the almost mystic
                            entertainment, the great Obosky herself had appeared in one of her most
                            marvellous creations, the "Dance of the Caliph's
                            Dream," the sensational, never-to-be-forgotten dance that had
                            been the talk of three continents. There was no spotlight to follow her
                            sinuous, scantily clad figure as it spun and leaped and glided about the
                            dim, starlit Green; there was no blare of brass and cymbals, nor the
                            haunting wail of flageolets, only the tinkle of mandolins and Spanish
                            guitars to guide her bewildering feet, and yet she had never been so
                            alluring.
                        When it was all over, when the charmed circle of faces had vanished into
                            the byways of the night, she came and flung herself down upon the steps
                            of the Governor's mansion. She had wrapped her warm body in a
                            sheath of yellow velvet; the tips of her bare feet were exposed to the
                            grateful night air. Her uplifted eyes shone like the stars that looked
                            down into them; her lips were parted in a smile; her flesh quivered with
                            the physical ecstasy that comes only with supreme lassitude.
                        "You never danced so beautifully in your life, Olga,"
                            said Careni-Amori. "And after two years, too. I cannot
                            understand. I shall never sing again as I sang two years ago. But you,
                            ah, you dance even better.  I take courage
                            from you. Perhaps my voice has not gone to seed as Joseppi's
                            has,poor man. Not that it had very far to go, but still it was second
                            only to Caruso's, and that is something. How can it be that you
                            improve with idleness, while I while we go the other way?"
                        "I shall never dance like zat again," replied Olga, her
                            eyes clouding.
                        "You speak as if it were your swan dance," cried
                            Michael Malone.
                        "Oh, I shall dance for ever," said she, "but
                            never again like zat. You would ask why not. I cannot tell you. I do not
                            know. Only can I say I shall never dance like zat again,
                            never."
                        Ruth turned her head quickly to look at the woman beside her.
                            Olga's face gleamed white in the starlight. Her eyes were still
                            searching the speckled dome, and the smile had left her lips.
                        "Don't say that, Olga," she whispered softly.
                            "You will delight great audiences again, you will charm
                            "
                        "Possibly," interrupted the other, lowering her voice,
                            turning her eyes upon Ruth, and smiling mysteriously. "Great
                            audiences, yes, but what are they? I appeared tonight before an audience
                            of one. I danced as I have never danced before, all for zat audience of
                            one. Your husband, my dear. He one time informs me he has never seen me
                            dance. Well, tonight I dance for him. Now, he can say he have seen
                            Obosky dance. He will never forget zat he have seen Obosky
                            dance."
                        Ruth laughed, but it was a strained effort. "He was positively
                            enchanted, Olga," she said. Then she added: "But for
                            goodness' sake, don't ever let him  know that you did it all for him. He will
                            be so proud and important that "
                        "Oh, he knows I danced for him," broke in the Russian
                            calmly, in a most matter-of-fact tone.
                        "You you told him?"
                        "I did not have to tell him. He knew, without being told. La la,
                            my dear! Do not look so shocked. It is a habit I have. Always I dance
                            for one person in my audience. I pick him out, sometimes it is a she,
                            and zen I try only to please zat one person. I make him to feel he is
                            the one I am dancing for, zat he is all alone in the great big hall, all
                            alone with me. Maybe he is in the gallery, looking down; maybe he is in
                            a box, or standing up at the back of the house, no matter where he is, I
                            pick him out and so I think of no one else all ze time I
                            dance."
                        "And, by the same token, he is powerless to think of any one
                            else. I see. No wonder you charm them out of their boots."
                        "And all the rest of his life he will remember that I danced for
                            him alone, zat man. As for me, poof! I would not recognize him again if
                            he came to see me a thousand nights in succession. Once I saw a very
                            tiny boy in the stalls. He was with his mother and father. I danced for
                            zat child of six. When he is a very, very old man he will look back over
                            the years and see me dancing still, always the same whirling, dazzling
                            thing that filled his little eyes and soul with wonder. So! Percivail
                            has seen me at my best. He will tell his grandchildren how wonderful
                            Obosky was, and he will think of her to his dying day as something
                            beautiful, not something vile."
                        "Oh, Olga!"
                        "You see, my dear," said the other, composedly,
                            "I  wanted to make a good
                            impression on zat virtuous husband of yours. Now he will think of me as
                            the artist, not as the woman. It is much better so, is it not?"
                        "Sometimes you say things that cause me to wonder why I
                            don't hate you, Olga Obosky," cried Ruth under her
                            breath.
                        Olga laughed softly. "I repeat zat Golden Rule to myself every
                            night and every morning, Ruthkin," said she, somewhat
                            cryptically. Then they were silent.
                        Conversation on the porch behind them lagged and finally ceased
                            altogether. The soft swish of fans was the only sound to disturb the
                            tranquil stillness.
                        "Nineteen-twenty," fell dreamily from the lips of
                            Randolph Fitts's wife. "I used to think of
                            Nineteen-twenty as being so far in the future that I would be an old,
                            old woman when I came to it. And here it is, I am living in it, and I am
                            not old."
                        "Presidential year," said Michael Malone, as he struck
                            a match to relight the pipe that had gone out.
                            "Doesn't take them long to slip around, does it? Seems
                            only last week that I voted for Wilson. I wonder if he'll be
                            running again."
                        "Sure! And if he can keep us in the war as long as he kept us
                            out of it," said Peter Snipe, "we'll have to
                            elect him again."
                        "I'd give a lot to know whether we've got the
                            Germans licked or not," mused Fitts. "We've
                            had nearly three years to do it in."
                        "Depends entirely on the navy," said Platt, Minister of
                            Marine, late of the U. S. Navy.
                        "What can the navy do if the Germans will not come
                            out?" demanded Landover.
                        "Why, confound it all, the navy can go in,
                            can't it?"
                        
                        "The British Navy hasn't," was
                            Landover's reply.
                        "What's the use of speculating about the war?"
                            said Percival, as he threw himself on the grass at Ruth's feet.
                            "Either it's over or it isn't, and here we
                            sit absolutely in the dark. They might as well be fighting on Mars as
                            over in Europe, so far as we are concerned. For God's sake,
                            let's not even think about the war. We'll all go crazy
                            if we do."
                        "You're right," said Fitts, gloomily.
                        "In any case," said Malone, "Trigger Island
                            has done all that any self-respecting government can do. She has
                            declared war on Germany. We have nothing to be ashamed of. Still,
                            I'd feel better if we could fire a few shots at the dirty
                            blackguards."
                        "The war is over," said Olga, staring up at the stars.
                            "The Germans are beaten. I have said so for many months, have I
                            not?"
                        "You have," agreed Malone. "But I
                            don't see that you have anything on the Kaiser. He said it was
                            over in 1914."
                        "Don't argue with him, Olga," said young Mrs.
                            Malone. "He's Irish."
                        "Like all Irishers he's longing for something
                            he'll never get," said Fitts, drily.
                        "And what is that?" inquired Mrs. Malone.
                        "Home-rule," said Fitts.
                        Olga Obosky yawned luxuriously. "I am so sleepy. My sandals,
                            Governor Percivail. I am going home."
                        He picked up the sandals lying on the grass beside him and held them out
                            to her. She coolly extended one of her feet.
                        "It cannot bite you. Put zem on for me, your
                            Excellency."
                        
                        He knelt and, slipping the sandals on one after the other, fastened the
                            straps over her bare insteps.
                        "So," she sighed. "Thank you. Good night,
                            Ruthkin. No! I shall go home alone. There is nothing to be afraid of now
                            on zis island, my dear. The ardent Fernandez is playing what you call
                            it? pea-knuckles? he is playing pea-knuckles away off yonder on zat
                            prison island, as he has been playing for nearly a year."
                        Little she knew of Fernandez!
                        Ruth and Percival walked around the corner of the porch with her, out of
                            sight of the others.
                        "It was a perfectly ravishing dance, Olga," said he.
                            "If I live a thousand years I shall never forget how beautiful
                            it was."
                        "You see?" cried Olga softly, pressing Ruth's
                            hand. "Was I not right?"
                        "Men are very queer things," said Ruth, with a curious
                            sidelong glance at her husband. Then she squeezed his arm tightly and
                            went on with a little thrill in her voice: "Good night, Olga.
                            Thank you for the lesson."
                        "What's all this?" inquired Percival.
                        "Nothing you would be interested in, my friend," said
                            Olga, with a little laugh. She waved her hand airily as she moved
                            swiftly away in the gloom.
                        They watched her yellow figure fade into the starlit shadows. As they
                            turned to rejoin the others, Ruth said:
                        "I think you might have told her how beautiful she was,
                            dear." So much for the native perversity of woman, even when
                            she is most content.
                        He raised her hand to his lips and pressed a kiss upon the soft, warm
                            palm. It was a habit of his,  and she
                            never failed to shiver in response to the exquisite thrill. She drew a
                            deep breath, and leaned a little closer to him.
                        "Look up yonder, sweetheart," he whispered.
                            "Do you see the one star in all the heavens that shines the
                            brightest? It is the only one I see when I raise my eyes. The big, full
                            star in the Southern Cross. The others are dim, feeble little things
                            preening themselves in reflected glory. That great, beautiful star at
                            the foot of the Cross is all that I can see. It's no use for me
                            to look elsewhere. That star fills my vision. Its splendour fascinates
                            me."
                        She waited for him to go on. Her eyes were shining. But the analogy was
                            complete. She laid her cheek against his and sighed tremulously. After a
                            moment, they turned their heads and their lips met in a long, passionate
                            kiss.
                        "I should be content to stay on this dear little island for
                            ever, sweetheart," she murmured. "My whole world is
                            here."
                        He stroked her hair lovingly, and was silent for a long time. Then he
                            smiled his whimsical smile.
                        "It's all right for you and me, dear, but how about the
                            future President of the United States sleeping up there in his
                            crib?"
                        She smiled up into his eyes. "It's a nuisance,
                            isn't it? having to stop and consider that we are parents as
                            well as lovers."
                        They rejoined the group on the porch.
                        "I had a horrible dream last night," said Peter Snipe,
                            getting up and stretching himself. "That's why
                            I'm staying up so late tonight. I hate to go to bed."
                        "What was your dream, Peter?" asked Ruth.
                        
                        "Do you believe in 'em?"
                        "Only in day-dreams."
                        "Well, I dreamed our little old ship was finished and had sailed
                            at last and for once our wireless plant up there began to get messages
                            from the sea. I dreamed I was sitting up there with the operator. It was
                            a dark, stormy night. The wireless began to crackle. He jumped up to see
                            what was coming. He was getting messages from our own ship, away out
                            there on the ocean. She was calling for help. 'Sinking fast,
                            sinking fast, sinking fast.'s Over and over again, just those
                            two words. 'Gad, it was so real, so terribly real, that the
                            first thing I did this morning was to walk down to see if the boat was
                            still on the stocks. She was there, a long way from being finished, and
                            and, by gad, I had hard work to keep from blubbering, I was so
                            relieved."
                        "It will take more than a dream to knock that ship to
                            pieces," said Percival. "When she's ready for
                            the water, there will not be a sturdier craft afloat. Andrew Mott says
                            she'll weather anything outside of the China Sea.
                            Don't look so distressed, Amy. Pete's a novelist. They
                            never do anything but dream horrible dreams. Generally they go so far as
                            to put them into print, and people read 'em and say they are
                            wildly improbable, especially if they have a happy ending. It's
                            always the happy ending that makes them improbable, but popular.
                            Isn't that so, Pete?"
                        "If we didn't give them a happy ending, they would
                            refuse to recognize us the next time they saw us on a
                            bookseller's counter," said Peter. "Well, I
                            guess I'll be on my way. I've got a busy day tomorrow,
                            setting up the Trigger Island Pioneer, and as I belong
                            to  that almost extinct species known as
                            the bachelor, I am forced to be my own alarm clock. Going my way,
                            Abel?"
                        "Good night, Ruth," said Landover. "Give the
                            Lieutenant Governor a good smack for me, and tell him he is still in my
                            will."
                        "Umph!" grunted Fitts. "I'd like to
                            know what you've got to leave the little beggar. Your letter of
                            credit?"
                        "Certainly not," replied Landover. "Something
                            worth while, Fittsy, my boy. I am making it now. It's going to
                            be a hobby-horse, if I live long enough to finish it. Good night, Perce.
                            'Night, everybody."
                        When the last of the company had departed, Ruth and Percival stood for a
                            long time in silence, listening to the far-off thrumming of a Spanish
                            guitar, their tranquil gaze fixed on the murky shadow that marked the
                            line of trees along the shore, her head resting lightly against his
                            shoulder, his arm about her waist.
                        "What are you thinking of, dear?" she asked at last.
                        "Peter's dream," he replied. "It has
                            put an idea into my head. The day that ship down there sails out to sea
                            with her courageous little crew, I shall start laying the keel for
                            another just like her."
                        Neither spoke for many seconds. Then she said, a deep, solemn note in her
                            voice: "I understand, Perce."
                        They went into the house. Later they stole tiptoe to the side of the crib
                            where slept the sturdy, sunkissed babe. The two middle fingers of a
                            chubby hand were in his mouth. With one hand Percival shaded the pitch
                            candle he had brought from the kitchen. She leaned over and gently
                            touched the smooth, warm cheek.
                        
                        "I I can't believe he is real, Perce," she
                            whispered.
                        "He isn't," whispered he. "He is
                            something out of a fairy story. Nothing as wonderful as he is can
                            possibly be real."
                        THE END
                    
                
            
        
    
