
     ----CITATION---- 
        Riley, James Whitcomb, 1849-1916. The Boss Girl: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2437
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
            
            
                
                    CHARACTER SKETCHES
                    THE BOSS GIRL
                    A CHRISTMAS STORY AND
                         OTHER SKETCHES
                
                BY
                    JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY
                     AUTHOR OF "THE OLD SWIMMIN' HOLE," ETC.
                
                    INDIANAPOLIS
                    THE BOWEN-MERRILL CO
                    1886
                
            
            
            
            	VERSO
                COPYRIGHT, 1885.
                    JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY.
                CARLON & HOLLENBECK, PRINTERS AND BINDERS,
                    INDIANAPOLIS.
            
            
            
                CONTENTS.
                
                    GOD BLESS US EVERY ONE 6
                        
                    THE BOSS GIRL 7
                        
                    BELLS JANGLED 50
                        
                    AN ADJUSTABLE LUNATIC 51
                        
                    LITTLE TOMMY SMITH 74
                        
                    TOD 75
                        
                    FAME 98
                        
                    A REMARKABLE MAN 101
                        
                    OLD-FASHIONED ROSES 126
                        
                    A NEST-EGG 127
                        
                    THE BEETLE 142
                        
                    TALE OF A SPIDER 143
                        
                    THE ELF-CHILD 178
                        
                    WHERE IS MARY ALICE SMITH? 181
                        
                    THE BAN 198
                        
                    ECCENTRIC MR. CLARK 201
                        
                    THE BROOK 226
                        
                    "THE BOY FROM ZEENY." 227
                        
                    THE ORCHARD LANDS OF LONG AGO 248
                        
                    THE OLD MAN 249
                        
                
            
        
        
            
            
            	The Boss Girl: a Christmas Story and Other Sketches
                
                    THE BOSS GIRL
                    
                    
                    
                        GOD BLESS US EVERY ONE.
                        
                            
                                "God bless us every one!" prayed Tiny Tim,
                            
                            
                                Crippled, and dwarfed of body, yet so tall
                            
                            
                                Of soul, we tiptoe earth to look on him,
                            
                            
                                High towering over all.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                He loved the loveless world, nor dreamed, indeed,
                            
                            
                                That it, at best, could give to him, the while,
                            
                            
                                But pitying glances, when his only need
                            
                            
                                Was but a cheery smile.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                And thus he prayed, "God bless us every one!"
                            
                            
                                Enfolding all the creeds within the span
                            
                            
                                Of his child-heart; and so, despising none,
                            
                            
                                Was nearer saint than man.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                I like to fancy God, in Faradise,
                            
                            
                                Lifting a finger o'er the rythmic swing
                            
                            
                                Of chiming harp and song, with eager eyes
                            
                            
                                Turned earthward, listening
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                The Anthem stilledthe angels leaning there
                            
                            
                                Above the golden wallsthe morning san
                            
                            
                                Of Christmas bursting flower-like with the prayer,
                            
                            
                                "God bless us Every One!"
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE BOSS GIRL
                        
                        ONE week ago this Christmas day, in the little back
                            office that adjoins the counting-room of the Daily Journal, I sat in
                            genial conversation with two friends. I do not now recall the theme of
                            our discussion, but the general trend of itsuggested, doubtless, by the
                            busy scene upon the streetsI remember most distinctly, savored of the
                            mellowing influences of the coming holidays, with perhaps an acrid tang
                            of irony as we dwelt upon the great needs of the poor at such a time,
                            and the chariness with which the hand of opulence was wont to dole out
                            alms. But for all that we were merry, and as from time to time our
                            glances fell upon the ever-shifting scene outside, our hearts grew
                            warmer, and within the eyes the old dreams glimmered into fuller dawn.
                            It was during a lull of conversation, and while the philanthropic mind,
                            perchance, was wandering amid the outer throng, and doubtless quoting to
                            itself "Whene'er I take my walks abroad," that our privacy was abruptly
                            broken into by  the grimy apparition of a
                            boy of ten; a ragged little fellownot the stereotyped edition of the
                            street waif, but a cross between the boot-black and the infantine
                            Italian with the violin. Where he had entered, and how, would have
                            puzzled us to answer; but there he stood before us, as it were, in a
                            majesty of insignificance. I have never had the features of a boy
                            impress me as did his, and as I stole a covert glance at my companions I
                            was pleased to find the evidence of more than ordinary interest in their
                            faces. They gazed in attentive silence on the little fellow, as, with
                            uncovered, frowzy head, he stepped boldly forward, yet with an air of
                            deference as unlooked for as becoming.
                        "I don't want to bother you gentlemens," he began, in a frank but
                            hesitating tone, that rippled hurriedly along as he marked a general nod
                            of indulgence for the interruption. "I don't want to bother nobody, but
                            if I can raise fifty centsand I've got a nickeland if I can raise the
                            restand it aint much, you knowon'y forty-fiveand if I can raise the
                            restI tell you, gentlemens," he broke off abruptlyand speaking with
                            italicized sincerity"I want jist fifty cents, cos I can git a
                            blackin'-box for that, and brush and everything, and you can bet if I
                            had that I wouldn't  have to ask nobody for
                            nothin', and I aint got no father nor mother, nor brother nornorno
                            sisters, neither; but that don't make no difference, cos I'll workat
                            anythingyes sir!when I can git anything to doand I sleep jist any
                            placeand I aint had no breakfastand, honest, gentlemens, I'm a good boyI
                            don't swear nor smoke nor chewbut that's all righton'y if you'lljist
                            make up forty-five between youand that's on'y fifteen cents apieceI'll
                            thank you, I will, and I'll jist do anythingand it's comin' Christmas,
                            and I'll roll in the nickels, don't you forgetif I on'y got a boxcos I
                            throw up a 'bad' shine!and I can git the box for fifty cents if you
                            gentlemens 'll on'y make up forty-five between you." At the conclusion
                            of this long and rambling appeal, the little fellow stood waiting with
                            an eager face for a response.
                        A look of stoical deliberation played about the features of the oldest
                            member of the group, as with an air of seriousness, which, I think, even
                            the boy recognized as affected, he asked:
                        "And you couldn't get a box like that forsay forty cents? Fifty cents
                            looks like a lot of money to lay out in the purchase of a black
                            ing-box."
                        The boy smiled wisely as he answered:
                        
                        "Yes, it might look big to a feller that aint up on prices, but I think
                            it's cheap, cos it's a second-hand box, and a new one would cost
                            seventy-five cents anyhow'thout no brushes nor nothin'."
                        In the meantime I had dropped into the little fellow's palm the only coin
                            I had in my possession, and we all laughed as he closed his thanks with
                            "Oh, come, Cap, go the other nickel, or I won't g't out o' here with
                            half enough!" and at that he turned to the former speaker.
                        "Well, really," said that gentleman, fumbling in his pockets, "I don't
                            believe I've got a dime with me."
                        "A dime," said the little fellow, with a look of feigned compassion.
                            "Aint got a dime? Maybe I'd loan you this one!" And we all laughed
                            again.
                        "Tell you what do now," said the boy, taking advantage of the moment, and
                            looking coaxingly into the smiling eyes of the gentleman still fumbling
                            vainly in his pockets. "Tell you what do; you borry twenty cents of the
                            man that stays behind the counter there, and then we'll go the other
                            fifteen, and that'll make it, and I'll skip out o' here a little the
                            flyest boy you ever see! What do ye soy?" And the little fellow struck a
                            Pat Rooney attitude  that would have driven
                            the original inventor mad with envy.
                        "Give him a quarter!" laughed the gentleman appealed to.
                        "And here's the other dime," and as the little fellow clutched the money
                            eagerly, he turned, and in a tone of curious gravity, he said:
                        "Now, honest, gentlemens, I aint a-givin' you no game about the boxcos a
                            new one costs seventy-five cents, and the one I've gotI mean the one I'm
                            agoin' to gitis jist as good as a new one, on'y it's second-hand, and
                            I'm much obliged, gentlemenshonest, I amand if ever I give you a shine
                            you can jist bet it don't cost you nothin'!"
                        And with this expression of his gratitude the little fellow vanished as
                            mysteriously as he had at first appeared.
                        "That boy hasn't a bad face," said the first speaker"wide between the
                            eyesfull foreheadgood mouthdenoting firmnessaltogether, a good, square
                            face."
                        "And a noble one," said I, perhaps inspired to that rather lofty
                            assertion by the rehearsal of the good points noted by my more observant
                            companion.
                        "Yes, and an honest, straightforward way of talking, I would say,"
                            continued that  gentleman. "I only noted
                            one thing to shake my faith in that particular, and that was in his
                            latest reference to the box. You'll remember his saying he was 'giving
                            us no game' about it, whereas, he had not been accused of such a
                            thing."
                        "Oh, he meant about the price, don't you remember?" said I.
                        "No," said the gentleman at the counter, "you're both wrong. He only
                            threw in that remark because he thought I suspected him, for he
                            recognized me just the instant before that speech, and it confused him,
                            and with some reason,as you will see. On my way to supper only last
                            night, I overtook that same little fellow in charge of an old man who
                            was in a deplorable state of drunkenness; and you know how slippery the
                            streets were. I think if that old man fell a single time he fell a
                            dozen, and once so violently that I ran to his assistance and helped him
                            to his feet. I thought him badly hurt at first, for he gashed his
                            forehead as he fell, and I helped the little fellow to take him into a
                            drug store, where the wound, upon examination, proved to be nothing more
                            serious than to require a strip of plaster. I got a good look at the
                            boy, there, however, and questioned him a little, and he said the man
                            was his father, and he was taking him 
                            home, and I gathered further from his talk that the man was a confirmed
                            inebriate. Now you'll remember the boy told us here a while ago he had
                            no father, and when he recognized me a moment since and found himself
                            caught in a 'yarn,' at least, he very naturally supposed I would think
                            his entire story a fabrication, hence the suspicious nature of his last
                            remarks, and the sudden transition of his manner from that of real
                            delight to gravity, which change, in my opinion, rather denotes lying to
                            be a new thing to him. I can't be mistaken in the boy, for I noticed, as
                            he turned to go, a bald place on the back of his head, the left side, a
                            'trade-mark,' first discovered last evening, as he bent over the
                            prostrate form of his father."
                        "I noticed a thin spot in his hair," said I, "and wondered at the time
                            what caused it."
                        "And don't you know?"
                        I shook my head.
                        "Coal-bins and entry floorsthat little fellow hasn't slept within a bed
                            for years, perhaps."
                        "But he told you, as you say, last night, he was taking the old man
                            home?"
                        "Yes, home! I can imagine that boy's home. There are dozens like it in
                            the city herea cellar or a sheda box ca-- or a loft
                                 in some old shop, with a father to
                            chase him from it in his sober interludes, and to hold him from it in
                            unconscious shame when helplessly drunk. 'Home, Sweet Home!' That boy
                            has heard it on the hand-organ, perhaps, but never in his heartyou
                            couldn't grind it out of there with a thousand cranks."
                        The remainder of that day eluded me somehow; I don't know how or where it
                            passed. I suppose it just dropped into a comatose condition, and so
                            slipped away "unknelled, uncoffined and unknown."
                        But one clear memory survivesan experience so vividly imprinted on my
                            mind that I now recall its every detail: Entering the Union Depot that
                            evening to meet the train that was to carry me away at six o'clock,
                            muffled closely in my overcoat, yet more closely muffled in my gloomy
                            thoughts, I was rather abruptly stopped by a small boy with the cry of:
                            "Here, you man with the cigar; don't you want them boots blacked? Shine
                            'em for ten cents! Shine 'em for a nickelon'y you mustn't give me away
                            on that," he added, dropping on his knees near the entrance, and
                            motioning me to set my foot upon the box.
                        It was then too dark for me to see his face clearly, but I had recognized
                            the voice the  instant he had spoken, and
                            had paused and looked around.
                        "Oh, you'll have plenty o' time," he urged, guessing at the cause of my
                            apparent hesitation. "None o' the trains are on time to-nighton'y the
                            Panhandle, and she's jist a backin' inwon't start for thirty minutes,"
                            and he again beckoned, and rattled a seductive tattoo on the side of his
                            box.
                        "Well," said I with a compromising air; "come inside, then, out of the
                            cold."
                        "'Gainst the rulescops won't have it. They jist fired me out o' there not
                            ten minutes ago. Oh, come, Cap; step out here; it won't take two
                            minutes," and the little fellow spat professionally upon his brush, with
                            a covert glance of pleasure as he noted the apparent success of the
                            maneuver. "You don't live here, I'll bet," said the boy, setting the
                            first boot on the box, and pausing to blow his hands.
                        "How do you know that? Did you never see me here before?"
                        "No, I never see you here before, but that amt no reason. I can tell you
                            don't live here by them shoescos they've been put up in some little
                            pennyroyal shop,that's how. When you want a 'fly' shoe you want to git
                            her put up somers where they know somepin' 
                            about style. They's good enough metal in that shoe, only she's about two
                            years off in style."
                        "You're posted, then, in shoes," said I, with a laugh.
                        "I ort to be," he went on, pantingly, a brush in either hand gyrating
                            with a velocity that jostled his hat over his eyes, leaving most plainly
                            exposed to my investigative eye the "trade-mark" before alluded to; "I
                            ort to be posted in shoes, cos I ain't done nothin' but black 'em for
                            five years."
                        " You're an old hand, then, at the business," said I. "I didn't know but
                            maybe you were just starting out. What's an outfit like that worth?"
                        "Thinkin' o' startin' up?" he asked facetiously.
                        "Oh, no," said I, good-humoredly. "I just asked out of idle curiosity.
                            That's a new box, ain't it?"
                        "New !" he repeated with a laugh. "Put up that other hoof. New? W'y if
                            that box had ever had eyes like a human it would a-been a-wearin' specs
                            by this time; that's a old, bald-headed box, with one foot in the
                            grave."
                        "And what did the old fellow cost you?" I 
                            asked, highly amused at the quaint expressions of the boy.
                        "Cost? Cost nothin'on'y about an hour's work. I made that box myself,
                            about four years ago."
                        "Ah!" said I.
                        "Yes," he went on, "they don't cost nothin'; the boys makes 'em out o'
                            other boxes, you know. Some of 'em gits 'em made, but they ain't no
                            goodain't no better'n this kind."
                        "So that didn't cost you anything?" said I, "though I suspect you
                            wouldn't like to part with it for less thanwell, I don't know how much
                            money to sayseventy-five cents, maybewould anything less than
                            seventy-five cents buy it?" I craftily interrogated.
                        "Seventy-five cents! W'y, what's the matter with you, man? I could get a
                            cart-load of 'em for seventy-five cents. I'll take your measure for one
                            like it for fifteen, too quick!" and the little fellow leaned back from
                            his work and laughed up in my face with absolute derision.
                        I pulled my hat more closely down for fear of recognition, but was
                            reassured a moment later as he went on:
                        "Wisht you lived here; you'd be old fruit for us fellows. I can see you
                            now a-takin'  windand we'd give it to you
                            mighty slick now, don't you forgit!" and, as the boy renewed his work, I
                            think his little ragged body shook less with industry than mirth.
                        "Wisht I'd struck you 'bout ten o'clock this mornin'!" and, as he spoke,
                            he paused again and looked up in my face with real regret. "Oh, you'd a
                            been the loveliest sucker of 'em all! W'y you'd a went the whole pot
                            yourself!"
                        "How do you mean?" said I, dropping the cigar I held.
                        "How do I mean? Oh, you don't want to smoke this thing again after it's
                            a-rolling round here in the dirt!"
                        "Why, you don't smoke," said I, still reaching for the cigar he held
                            behind him.
                        "Me? Oh, what you givin' me?"
                        "Come, let me have it," I said sharply, drawing a case from my pocket and
                            taking out another cigar.
                        "Oh, you want a light," he said, handing me the stub and watching me
                            wistfully. "Couldn't give us a fresh cigar, could you, Cap?"
                        "I don't know," said I, as though deliberating on the matter. "What was
                            that you were going to tell me just now? You started to tell me what a
                            'lovely sucker' I'd have  been had you met
                            me this morning. How did you mean?"
                        "Give me a cigar and I'll tell you. Oh, come, now, Cap; give me a smoker
                            and I'll give you the whole game. I will, now, honest!"
                        I held out the open case.
                        "Nothin' mean about you, is they?" he said, eagerly taking a fresh cigar
                            in one hand and the stub in the other. "A ten-center, toooh, I guess
                            not!" but, to my surprise, he took the stub between his lips, and began
                            opening his coat. "Guess I'll jist fat this daisy, and save 'er up for
                            Christmas. No, I won't, either, "he broke in suddenly, with a bright,
                            keen flash of second thought. "Tell you what I'll do," holding up the
                            cigar and gazing at it admiringly; "she's a ten-center, ain't she?" I
                            nodded. And worth every cent of it, too, ain't she? Every cent of it, I
                            repeated. Then give me a nickel, and she's yourncos if you can afford to
                            give it to me for nothin', looks like I ort to let you have it for half
                            price," and as I laughingly dropped the nickel in his hand he concluded,
                            "And there's nothin' mean about me, neither."
                        "Now, go on with your story," said I.
                        
                        "How about that 'game' you were 'giving,' this morning?"
                        "Well, I'll tell you, Cap. Us fellers has got to lay for every nickel,
                            cos none of us is bondholders; and they's days and days together when we
                            don't make enough to even starve on. What I mean is, we on'y make enough
                            to pay for agervatin' our appetites with jist about enough chuck to keep
                            us starvin'-hungry. So, you see, when a feller ain't got nothin' else to
                            do, and his appetite won't sleep in the same bunk with him, he's bound
                            to git onto somepin' crooked, and git up all sorts o' dodges to git
                            along. Some gives 'em one thing, and some another, but you bet they got
                            to be mighty slick now, cos people won't have 'orphans,' and 'fits,' and
                            'cripples,' and 'drunk fathers,' and 'mothers that eats morphine,' and
                            'white swellin',' and 'consumption,' and all that sort o' taffy! Got to
                            git 'er down finer'n that; but I been a gittin' in my work all the same,
                            don't you forgit! You won't ever blow, now?"
                        "How could I 'blow,' and what if I did? I don't live here," I
                            replied.
                        Well, you better never blow, anyhow; cos if ever us duffers would git
                            onto it you'd be a spiled oyster!"
                        "Go on," said I, with an assuring tone.
                        
                        "The lay I'm on jist now," he continued, dropping his voice and looking
                            cautiously around, "is a-hidin' my box and a-rushin' in, sudden-like,
                            where they's a crowd o' nobs a-talkin' politics or somepin', and a jist
                            startin' in, and 'fore they know what's a-comin' I'm a-flashin' up a
                            nickel or a dime, and a-tellin' 'em if I on'y had enough more to make
                            fifty cents I could buy a blackin'- box, and wouldn't have to ask no
                            boot o' my grandmother; and two minutes chinnin' does it, don't you see,
                            cos they don't know nothin' about blackin'-boxes; they're jist as soft
                            as you are. They got an idy, maybe, that blackin'-boxes comes all the
                            way from Chiny, with cokeynut whiskers packed around 'em; and I make it
                            solid by a-sayin' I'm on'y goin' to git a secondhand boxsee? But that
                            ain't the pintit's the Mr. Nickel I already got. Oh! it'll paralyze 'em
                            every time! Sometimes fellers'll make up seventy-five cents or a dollar,
                            and tell me to git a new box, and 'go into the business right.' That's a
                            thing that always rattles me. Now, if they'd on'y growl a little and
                            look like they was jist a puttin' up cos the first one did, I can stand
                            it; but when they go to pattin' me on the head, and a-tellin' me 'that's
                            right,' and 'not to be afeard o' work,' and I'll 'come out all right,'
                            and a-tellin'  me to 'git a good
                            substantial box while I'm a-gittin',' and a-ponyin' up handsome, there's
                            where I weakenI do, honest!" And never so plainly as at that moment did
                            I see within his face and in his eyes the light of true nobility.
                        "You see," he went on, in a tone of voice half courage, half apology,
                            "I've got a family on my hands, and I jist got to git along somehow. I
                            could git along on the square deal as long as mother was alivecos she'd
                            workbut ever sence she diedand that was winter 'fore lastI've kindo had
                            to double on the old thing all sorts o' ways. But Sis don't know it. Sis
                            thinks I'm the squarest muldoon in the business," and even side by side
                            with the homely utterance a great sigh faltered from his lips.
                        "And who is Sis?" I inquired with new interest.
                        "Sis?" he repeated, knocking my foot from the box, and leaning back,
                            still in the old position, his hat lying on the ground beside him, and
                            his frowsy hair tossed backward from the full, broad brow"Who's Sis?" he
                            repeated with an upward smile that almost dazzled me"W'y, Sis isisw'y,
                            Sis is the boss girland don't you forgit it!"
                        No need had he to tell me more than this.  I
                            knew who "Sis" was by the light of pride in the uplifted eyes; I knew
                            who "Sis" was by the exultation in the broken voice, and the
                            half-defiant tossing of the frowsy head; I knew who "Sis" was by the
                            little naked hands thrown upward openly; I knew who "Sis" was by the
                            tear that dared to trickle through the dirt upon her ragged brother's
                            face. And don't you forget it!
                        O that boy down there upon his knees!there in the cinders and the dirtso
                            far, far down beneath us that we trample on his breast and grind our
                            heels into his very heart; O that boy there, with his lifted eyes, and
                            God's own glory shining in his face, has taught me, with an eloquence
                            beyond the trick of mellow-sounding words and metaphor, that love may
                            find a purer home beneath the rags of poverty and vice than in all the
                            great warm heart of charity.
                        I hardly knew what impulse prompted me, but as the boy rose to his feet
                            and held his hand out for the compensation for his work, I caught the
                            little dingy palm close, close within my own, and wrung it as I would
                            have wrung the hand of some great conqueror.
                        The little fellow stared at me in wonderment, and although his lips were
                            silent, I can but believe that had they parted with the utterance  within his heart my feelings had received
                            no higher recognition than the old contemptuous phrase, "Oh, what you
                            givin' me?"
                        "And so you've got a family on your hands?" I inquired, recovering an air
                            of simple curiosity, and toying in my pocket with some bits of change.
                            "How much of a family?"
                        "On'y three of us now."
                        "Only three of you, eh? Yourself, and Sis, andand"
                        "The old man," said the boy, uneasily; and after a pause, in which he
                            seemed to swallow an utterance more bitter, he added, "And he aint no
                            good on earth!"
                        "Can't work? I queried.
                        "Won't work," said the boy, bitterly. "He won't work he won't do nothin'
                            on'y 'budge!' And I have to steer him in every night, cos the cops won't
                            pull him any morethey won't let him in the station-house mor'n they'd
                            let him in a parlor,. cos he's a plum goner, and liable to 'croak' any
                            minute."
                        "Liable to what?" said I.
                        "Liable to jist keel overwink out, you knowcos he has fits, kindo
                            jim-jams, I guess. Had a fearful old matinee with him last  night! You see he comes all sorts o' games
                            on me, and I have to put up for himcos he's got to have whisky, and if
                            we can on'y keep him about so full he's a regular lamb, but he don't
                            stand no monkeyin' when he wants whisky, now you bet! Sis can handle him
                            better'n me, but she's been a losin' her grip on him latelyyou see Sis
                            ain't stout any more, and been kindo sick-like so long she humors him,
                            you know, mor'n she ort. And he couldn't git on his pins at all
                            yesterday mornin', and Sis sent for me, and I took him down a pint, and
                            that set him a runnin' so that when I left he made Sis give up a quarter
                            he saw me slip her, and it jist happened I run into him that evening and
                            got him in, or he'd a froze to death. I guess he must a kindo had 'em
                            last night, cos he was the wildest man you ever seesaw grasshoppers with
                            paper collars on, an' old sows with feather-duster tails, the durndest
                            programme you ever heard of! And he got so bad onct he was a goin' to
                            belt Sis, and did try it, andand I had to chug him one or he'd a done
                            it. And then he cried, and Sis cried, and I cri, I Dern him! You can bet
                            your life I didn't cry." And as the boy spoke, the
                            lips quivered into stern compression, the little hands gripped closer at
                            his  side, but for all that the flashing
                            eye grew blurred and the lids dropped downward.
                        "That's a boss shine on them shoes."
                        I was mechanically telling over in my hand the three small coins I had
                            drawn from my pocket.
                        "That is a nice job!" said I, gazing with an unusual show of admiration
                            at the work, "and I thought," continued I, with real regret, "that I
                            held two dimes and a nickel here, and was thinking that as these were
                            Christmas times, I'd just give you a quarter for your work."
                        "Honest, Cap!"
                        "Honest!" I repeated, "but the fact is the two dimes, as I thought they
                            were, are only two three-cent pieces, so I only have eleven cents in
                            change, after all."
                        "Spect they'd change a bill for you 'crost there at the lunch counter,"
                            he suggested with charming artlessness.
                        "Won't have timethere's my train just couplingbut take thisI'll see you
                            again sometime, perhaps."
                        "How big a bill is it you want changed?" asked the little fellow, with a
                            most acquisitive expression, and a swift glance at our then lonely
                            surroundings.
                        
                        "I have only one bill with me," said I nervously, "and that's a
                            five."
                        "Well, here then," said the boy hurriedly, with another and more
                            scrutinizing glance about him"guess I can accommodate you." And as I
                            turned in wonder, he drew from some mysterious recess in the lining of
                            his coat, a roll of bills, from which he hastily detached four in
                            number, returned the roll, and before I had recovered my surprise, had
                            whisked the note from my fingers, and left in my hand instead the proper
                            change.
                        "This is on the dead, now. Cap. Don't you ever cheep about me havin'
                            wealth, you know; cos it aint minethat is it's mine, but I'm athere goes
                            your train. Ta-ta!"
                        "The day before Christmas," said I, snatching his hand, and speaking
                            hurriedly, "the day before Christmas I'm coming back, and if you'll be
                            here when the 5:30 train rolls in you'll find a man that wants his boots
                            blackedmaybe to get married in, or somethinganyway he'll want a shine
                            like this, and he'll come prepared to pay the highest market pricedo you
                            understand?"
                        "You jist tell that feller for me," said the boy, eclipsing the twinkle
                            of one eye, and dropping his voice to an inflection of strictest  confidence, "you jist tell that feller for
                            me that I'm his oyster."
                        "And you'll meet him, sure?" said I.
                        "I will," said the boy. And he kept his word.
                        My ride home was an incoherent fluttering of the wings of time, in which
                            travail one fretful hour was born, to gasp its first few minutes
                            helplessly; then moan, roll over and kick out its legs and sprawl about,
                            then crawl a littlestagger to its feet and totter on; then tumble down a
                            time or two and knock its empty head against the floor and howl; then
                            loom up awkwardly on gangling legs, too much in their own way to
                            comprehend that they were in the way of everybody else; then limp a
                            little as it worried ondrop down exhaustedmoan againtoss up its
                            handsshriek out, and die in violent convulsions.
                        We have all had that experience of the carwheelshad them enter into
                            conversation with us as we gaily embarked upon some pleasant trip,
                            perhaps; had them rattle off in scraps of song, or lightly twit us with
                            some dear one's name, or even go so far as to laugh at us and mock us
                            for some real or fancied dereliction of car etiquette. I shall ever have
                            good reason to remember how once upon a time a boy of  fourteen, though greatly undersize, told
                            the conductor he was only ten, and although the unsuspecting official
                            accepted the statement as a truth, with the proper reduction in the
                            fare, the car-wheels called that boy a "liar" for twenty milesand twenty
                            miles as long and tedious as he has ever compassed in his journey
                            through this vale of tears.
                        The car-wheels on this bitter winter evening were not at all
                            communicative. They were sullen and morose. They didn't feel like
                            singing, and they wouldn't laugh. They had no jokes, and if there was
                            one peculiar quality of tone they possessed in any marked degree it was
                            that of sneering. They had a harsh, discordant snarl as it seemed, and
                            were spiteful and insinuating.
                        The topic they had chosen for that night's consideration was evidently of
                            a very complex and mysterious nature, and they gnawed and mumbled at it
                            with such fierceness, and, withal, such selfishness, I could only catch
                            a flying fragment of it now and then, and that I noticed was of the
                            coarsest fiber of intelligence, and of slangy flavor. Listening with the
                            most painful interest, I at last made out the fact that the inflection
                            seemed to be in the interrogative, and with anxiety the most intense, I
                            slowly came to comprehend that  they were
                            desirous of ascertaining the exact distance between two given points,
                            but the proposition seemed determined not to round into fuller
                            significance than to query mockingly, "How fur is it? How fur is it? How
                            fur, how fur, how fur is it?" and so on to a most exasperating limit. As
                            this senseless phrase was repeated and reiterated in its growing
                            harshness and unchanging intonation, the relentless pertinacity of the
                            query grew simply agonizing, and when at times the car-door opened to
                            admit a brakeman, or the train boy, who had everything to sell but what
                            I wanted, the emphasized refrain would lift me from my seat and drag me
                            up and down the aisle. When the phrase did eventually writhe round into
                            form and shade more tangible, my relief was such that I sat down, and in
                            my fancy framed a grim, unlovely tune that suited it, and hummed with
                            it, in an undertone of dismal satisfaction;
                        
                            "How furhow fur
                            Is it from here
                            From here to Happiness?"
                        
                        When I returned that same refrain rode back into the city with me! All
                            the gay metropolis was robing for the banquet and the ball. All the
                            windows of the crowded  thoroughfares were
                            kindling into splendor. Along the streets rolled lordly carriages so
                            weighted down with costly silks, and furs, and twinkling gems, and
                            unknown treasures in unnumbered packages, that one lone ounce of needed
                            charity would have snapped their axles, and a feather's weight of pure
                            benevolence would have splintered every spoke.
                        And the old refrain rode with me through it allas stoical, relentless and
                            unchangeable as fateand in the same depraved and slangy tone in which it
                            seemed to find an especial pride, it sang, and sang again:
                        
                            "How furhow fur
                            Is it from here
                            From here to Happiness?"
                        
                        The train that for five minutes had been lessening in speed toiled
                            painfully along, and as I arose impatiently and reached behind me for my
                            overcoat, a cheery voice cried, "Hello, Cap! Want a lift? I'll help you
                            with that 'benjamin';" and as I looked around I saw the grimy features
                            of my little hero of the brush and box.
                        "Hello!" said I, as much delighted as surprised. "Where did you drop
                            from?"
                        "Oh, I collared this old hearse a mile or so back yonder," said the
                            little fellow gaily,  standing on the seat
                            behind me and holding up the coat. "Been a-doin' circus business on the
                            steps out there for half an hour. You bet I had my eye on you, all the
                            same, though."
                        "You had, eh?" I exclaimed, gladly, although I instinctively surmised his
                            highest interest in me was centered in my pocket-book. "You have, eh?" I
                            repeated, with more earnestness. "Well, I'm glad of that, Charlieor,
                            what is your name?" Squatty," said the boy. Then noticing the look of
                            surprise upon my face, he added soberly: "That aint my 'sure-enough'
                            name, you know; that's what the boys calls me. Sis calls me Jamesy."
                        "Well, Jamesy," I continued, buttoning my collar and drawing on my
                            gloves, "I'm mighty glad to see you, and if you don't believe it, just
                            go down in that right-hand overcoat pocket and you'll find out."
                        The little fellow needed no second invitation, and as he drew forth a
                            closely-folded package the look of curiosity upon his face deepened to
                            one of blank bewilderment.
                        "Open it," said I, smiling at the little puzzled face; "open itit's for
                            you."
                        "O, here, Cap," said the boy, dropping the package on the seat, and
                            holding up a  rigid finger, "you're a
                            givin' me this, aint you?"
                        "I'm giving you the package, certainly," said I somewhat bewildered.
                            "Open itit's a Christmas present for youopen it."
                        "What's your idy o' layin' for me?" asked the boy, with a troubled and
                            uneasy air. "I've been a-givin' you square business right along, aint
                            I?"
                        "Why, Jamesy," said I, as I vaguely comprehended the real drift of his
                            thought, "the package is for you, and if you won't open it I will," and
                            as I spoke I began unfolding it. "Here," said I, "is a pair of gloves, a
                            little girl, about your size, told me to give to you, because I was
                            telling her about you, over where I live, and it's 'a clear case,'" and
                            I laughed lightly to myself as I noticed a slow flush creeping to his
                            face. "And here," said I, "is a 'bang up' pair of good old-fashioned
                            socks, and, if they'll fit you, there's an old woman that wears specs
                            and a mole on her nose, told me to tell you, for her, that she knit them
                            for your Christmas present, and if you don't wear them she'll never
                            forgive you. And here," I continued, "is a cap, as fuzzy as a
                            woolly-worm, and as warm a cap, I reckon, as you ever stood on your head
                            in;  it's a cheap cap, but I bought it with
                            my own money, and money that I worked mighty hard to get, because I aint
                            rich; now, if I was rich, I'd buy you a plug, but I've got an idea that
                            this little, old, woolly cap, with earbobs to it, and a snapper to go
                            under your chin, don't you see, won't be a bad cap to knock around in
                            such weather as this. What do you say now! Try her on once," and as I
                            spoke I turned to place it on his head.
                        "Oomh-ooh!" he negatively murmured putting out his hand, his closed lips
                            quivering the little frowsy head drooping forward, and the ragged shoes
                            shuffling on the floor.
                        "Come," said I, my own voice growing curiously changed; "won't you take
                            these presents? They are yours; you must accept them, Jamesy, not
                            because they're worth so very much, or because they're very fine," I
                            continued, bending down and folding up the parcel, "but because, you
                            know, I want you to, and and you must take them; you must!" and as I
                            concluded, I thrust the tightly-folded parcel beneath his arm, and
                            pressed the little tattered elbow firmly over it. "There you are," said
                            I. "Freeze onto it, and we'll skip off here at the avenue. Come."
                        I hardly dared to look behind me till I found myself upon the street, but
                            as I threw an eager  glance over my
                            shoulder I saw the little fellow following, not bounding joyfully, but
                            with a solemn step, the little parcel hugged closely to his side, and
                            his eyes bent soberly upon the frozen ground.
                        "And how's Sis by this time?" I asked cheerily, flinging the question
                            backward, and walking on more briskly.
                        "'Bout the same," said the boy, brighten ing a little, and skipping into
                            a livelier pace.
                        "About the same, eh? and how's that?" I asked.
                        "Oh, she can't get around much like she used to, you know; but she's
                            a-gittin' better all the time. She set up mighty nigh all day
                            yisterday." And as the boy spoke the eyes lifted with the old flash, and
                            the little frowsy head tossed with the old defiance.
                        "Why, she's not down sick?" said I, a sudden ache of sorrow smiting
                            me.
                        "Yes," replied the boy, "she's been bad a long time. You see," he broke
                            in by way of explanation, "she didn't have no shoes nor nothin' when
                            winter come, and kindo took cold, you know, and that give her the
                            whoop-in' cough so's she couldn't git around much. You jist ort to see
                            her now! Oh, she's a-gittin' all right now, you can bet! and she said
                            yisterday she'd be plum well Christmas, 
                            and that's on'y to-morry. Guess not!" and as the little fellow concluded
                            this exultant speech, he circled round me, and then shot forward like a
                            rocket.
                        "Hi ! Jamesy !" I called after him, pausing at a stairway and stepping in
                            the door.
                        The little fellow joined me in an instant. "Want that shine now?" he
                            inquired with panting eagerness.
                        "Not now, Jamesy," said I, "for I'm going to be quite busy for a while.
                            This is my stopping place herethe second door on the right, up-stairs,
                            rememberand I work there when I'm in the city, and I sometimes sleep
                            there, when I work late; and now I want to ask a very special favor of
                            you," I continued, taking a little sealed packet from my vest, "here's a
                            little box that you're to take to Sis, with my complimentsthe
                            compliments of the season, you understand, and tell her I sent it, with
                            particular directions that she shouldn't break it open till Christmas
                            morningnot till Christmas morning, understand! Then you tell her that I
                            would like very much to come and see her, and if she says all right, and
                            you must give me a good 'send off,' and she'll say all right if 'Jamesy'
                            says all right, then come back here, say two hours from now, or three
                                 hours, or to-night anyway, and we'll
                            go down and see Sis togetherwhat do you say?"
                        The boy nodded dubiously, "Honestmust I do all that, sure enough?"
                        "Will you?" said I; "that's what I want to know," and I pushed back the
                            little dusky face and looked into the bewildered eyes.
                        "Solid?" he queried gravely.
                        "Solid," I repeated, handing him the box. "Will you come?"
                        W'y, 'course I will, on'y I was jist a-thinkin'"
                        "Just thinking what," said I, as the little fellow paused abruptly and
                            shook the box suspiciously at his ear. "Just thinking what?" I repeated,
                            "for I must go now; good-bye. Just thinking what?"
                        "O, nothin'," said the boy, backing off and staring at me in a phase of
                            wonder akin to awe. "Nothin', only I was jist a-thinkin' that you was a
                            little the curiousest rooster I ever see."
                        Three hours later, as I sat alone, he came in upon me timidly to say he
                            hadn't been home yet, having "run acrost the old man jist a bilin', and
                            had to git him corralled 'fore he dropped down some'rs in the snow; but
                            I'm a-gittin' 'long bully with him now," he added, with a deep sigh of
                            relief, "cos he's so  full he'll have to
                            let go purty soon. Say you'll be here?"
                        I nodded silently, and he was gone.
                        The merry peals of laughter rang up from the streets like mockery. The
                            jingling of bells, the clatter and confusion of the swarming
                            thoroughfares flung up to me not one glad murmur of delight; the faint
                            and far off blaring of a dreamy waltz, blown breeze-like over the drowsy
                            ear of night, had sounded sweeter to me had I stood amid the band, with
                            every bellowing horn about my ears, and the drums and clashing cymbals
                            howling mad.
                        I couldn't work, I couldn't read, I couldn't rest, I could only pace
                            about. I heard the clock strike ten, and strike it hard; I heard it
                            strike eleven, viciously; and twelve it held out at arm's length, and
                            struck it full between the eyes, and let it dropstone dead. O! I saw the
                            blood ooze from its ears, and saw the white foam freeze upon its lips. I
                            was alone, alone!
                        It was three o'clock before the boy returned.
                        "Been a long while," he began, "but I had a fearful time with the old
                            man, and he went on so when I did git him in I was most afeared to leave
                            him; but he kindo went to sleep at last, and Molly she come over to see
                                 how Sis was a-gittin', and Sis said
                            she'd like to see you if you'd come now, you know, while they ain't no
                            racket goin' on."
                        "Come, then," said I, buttoning my coat closely at the throat, "I am
                            ready;" and a moment later we had stepped into the frosty night. We
                            moved along in silence, the little fellow half running, half sliding
                            along the frozen pavement in the lead; and I noted, with a pleasurable
                            thrill, that he had donned the little fuzzy cap and mittens, and from
                            time to time was flinging, as he ran, admiring glances at his shadow on
                            the snow.
                        Our way veered but a little from the very center of the city, but led
                            mainly along through narrow streets and alley-ways, where the rear ends
                            of massive business blocks had dwindled down to insignificant
                            proportions to leer grimly at us as we passed little grated windows, and
                            low, scowling doors. Occasionally we passed a clump of empty boxes,
                            barrels, and such debris of merchandise as had been crowded pell-mell
                            from some inner storage by their newer and more dignified companions;
                            and now and then we passed an empty 'bus, bulging up in the darkness
                            like a behemoth of the olden times; or, jutting from still narrower
                            passages, the sloping ends of drays and carts innumerable.
                        
                        And along even as forbidding a defile as this we groped until we came
                            upon a low, square, brick building that might have served at one time as
                            a wash-house, or less probably, perhaps, a dairy. There was but one
                            window in the front, and that but little larger than an ordinary pane of
                            glass. In the sides, however, and higher up, was a row of gratings,
                            evidently designed more to serve as ventilation than as openings for
                            light. There was but one opening, an upright doorway, half above ground,
                            half below, with little narrow side-steps leading down to it. A light
                            shone dimly from the little window, and as the boy motioned me to pause
                            and listen, a sound of female voices talking in an undertone was
                            audible, mingled with a sound like that of some one snoring heavily.
                        "Hear the old man a-gittin' in his work?" whispered the boy.
                        I nodded, "He's asleep."
                        "You bet he's asleep!" said the boy, still in a whisper; "and he'll jist
                            about stay with it that-away fur five hours, anyhow. What time you got,
                            now, Cap?"
                        "A quarter now till four," I replied, peering at my watch.
                        "W'y, it's Christmas, then!" he cried, in muffled rapture of delight, but
                            abruptly checking  his emotion he beckoned
                            me a little farther from the door, and said in a confidential
                            whisper:
                        "Cap, look here, now, 'fore we go in I want you to promise me one
                            thingcos you can fix it and she'll never drop! Now, here, I want to put
                            up a job on Sis, you understand!"
                        "What?" I exclaimed, starting back and staring at the boy in amazement.
                            "Put up a job on Sis?"
                        "O, look here, now, Cap, you aint a goin' back on a feller like that!"
                            broke in the little fellow in a mingled tone of pleading and reproof;
                            "and if you don't help a feller I'll have to wait till broad daylight,
                            cos we aint got no clock."
                        "No clock!" I repeated with increased bewilderment.
                        "O, come, Cap, what do you say? It ain't no lie, you know; all you got to
                            do 'll be to jest tell Sis it's Christmas, as though you didn't want me
                            to hear, you know, and then she'll git my 'Christmas Gift!' first, you
                            know, and, oh, lordy, won't she think she's played it fine!" and as I
                            slowly comprehended the meaning of the little fellow's plot I nodded my
                            willingness to assist in "putting up the job."
                        
                        "Now, hold on a second!" continued the little fellow, in the wildest
                            glee, darting through an opening in a high board fence a dozen steps
                            away, and in an instant reappearing with a bulky parcel, which, as he
                            neared me, I discovered was a paper flour sack half filled, the other
                            half lapped down and fastened with a large twine string. "Now this
                            stuff," he went on excitedly, "you must juggle in without Sis seein'
                            ithere, shove it under your 'ben,' heretherethat's business! Now when
                            you go in, you're to set down with the other side to'rds the bed, you
                            see, and when Sis hollers, don't you know, you jist kindo let it slide
                            down to the floor like, and I'll nail it slick enoughthough I'll p'tend,
                            you know, it aint Christmas yet, and look sold out, and say it wasn't
                            fair for you to tell her, and all that, and then I'll open up sudden
                            like, and if you don't see old Sis bug out them eyes of hern I don't
                            want a cent!" And as the gleeful boy concluded this speech, he put his
                            hands over his mouth and dragged me down the little narrow steps.
                        "Here's that feller come to see you, Sis!" he announced abruptly, opening
                            the door and peering in; "come on," he said, turning to me. I followed,
                            closing the door, and looking curiously around. A squabby, red-faced  woman sitting on the edge of a low bed,
                            leered upon me, but with no salutation. An old cook-stove, propped up
                            with bricks, stood back against the wall directly opposite, and through
                            the warped and broken doors in front sent out a dismal suggestion of the
                            fire that burned within. At the side of this, prone upon the floor, lay
                            the wretched figure of a man, evidently in the deepest stage of
                            drunkenness, and thrown loosely over him was an old tattered piece of
                            carpet and a little checkered shawl.
                        There was no furniture to speak of; one chairand that was serving as a
                            standsat near the bed, a high hump-shouldered bottle sitting on it, a
                            fruit-can full of water, and a little dim and smoky lamp that glared
                            sulkily.
                        "Jamesy, can't you git the man a cheer or somepin?" queried a thin voice
                            from the bed, at which the red-faced woman rose relucantly with the
                            rather sullen words: "He can sit here, I reckon," while the boy looked
                            at me significantly and took up a position near the "stand."
                        "So this is Sis?" I said with reverence.
                        The little haggard face I bent above was beautiful. The eyes were dark
                            and tendervery tender, and though deeply sunken were most childish in
                            expression, and star-pure and  luminous.
                            She reached a little wasted hand out to me, saying simply: "It was
                            mighty good in you to give them things to Jamesy, and send me that
                            mothatthat little box, you knowon'y I guess II won't need it," and as
                            she spoke a smile of perfect sweetness rested on the face, and the hand
                            within my own nestled in dove-like peace.
                        The boy bent over the white face from behind and whispered something in
                            her ear, trailing the little laughing lips across her brow as he looked
                            up.
                        "Not now, Jamesy; wait awhile."
                        "Ah!" said I, shaking my head with feigned merriment. "Don't you two go
                            to plotting about me!"
                        "O, hello, no, Cap?" exclaimed the boy assuringly. "I was on'y jist a
                            tellin' Sis to ask you if she mightn't open that box nowhonest! Now you
                            jist ask her if you don't believe meI won't listen," and the little
                            fellow gave me a look of the most penetrative suggestiveness, and when a
                            moment later the glad words, "Christmas Gift! Jamesy," rang out
                            quaveringly in the thin voice, the little fellow snatched the sack up in
                            a paroxysm of delight, and before the girl had time to lift the long
                            dark lashes once upon his merry face,  he
                            had emptied its contents out tumultuously upon the bed.
                        "You got it on to me, Sis!" cried the little fellow, dancing wildly round
                            the room; "got it onto me this time! but I'm game, don't you forgit, and
                            don't put up nothin' snide! How'll them shoes there ketch you? and how's
                            this for a cloak? is them enough beads to suit you? and how's this for a
                            hatfeather an' all? and how's this for a dressmade and everything? and
                            I'd a got a corsik with it if he'd a on'y had any little enough. You
                            won't look fly nor nothin' when you throw all that style on you in the
                            morning! Guess not!" and the delighted boy went off upon another wild
                            excursion round the room.
                        "Lean down here," said the girl, a great light in her eyes, and the other
                            slender hand sliding from beneath the covering. "Here is the box you
                            sent me, and I've opened itit wasn't right, you know, but somepin' kindo
                            said to open it 'fore morningandand I opened it," and the eyes seemed
                            asking my forgiveness, yet filled with great bewilderment. "You see,"
                            she went on, the thin voice falling in a fainter tone, "I knowed that
                            money in the boxthat is, the billsI knowed them bills, cos one of 'em
                            had a ink-spot on it, and the other ones had been pinned with  itthey wasn't pinned together when you
                            sent em, but the holes was in where they had been pinned, and they was
                            all pinned together when Jamesy had 'emcos Jamesy used to have them very
                            billshe didn't think I knowed, but onc't when he was asleep, and father
                            was a-goin' through his clothes, I happened to find 'em in his coat
                            'fore he did, and I counted 'em, and hid 'em back again, and father
                            didn't find 'em, and Jamesy never knowed itI never said nothin', cos
                            somepin kindo said to me it was all right, and somepin kindo said I'd
                            git all these things here, tooon'y I won't need 'em, nor the money, nor
                            nothin'. How did you get the money? That's all!"
                        The boy had by this time approached the bed, and was gazing curiously
                            upon the little, solemn face.
                        "What's the matter with you, Sis?" he asked in wonderment; "aint you
                            glad?"
                        "I'm mighty glad, Jamesy," she said, the little thin hands reaching for
                            his own. "Guess I'm too glad, cos I can't do nothin', on'y jist feel
                            glad; and somepin kindo says that that's the gladdest glad in all the
                            world. Jamesy!"
                        "O, shaw, Sis! Why don't you tell a feller what's the matter?" said the
                            boy uneasily.
                        The white hands linked more closely with 
                            the brown, and the pure face lifted to the grimy one till they were
                            blent together in a kiss.
                        "Be good to father, for you know he used to be so good to us."
                        "O Sis! Sis!"
                        "Mollie!"
                        The squabby, red-faced woman threw herself upon her knees, and kissed the
                            thin hands wildly and with sobs.
                        "Mollie, somepin kindo says that you must dress me in the morningbut I
                            won't need the hat, and you must take it home for Nanniedon'tdon't cry
                            so loud, you'll wake father."
                        I bent my head down above the frowsy one and moanedmoaned.
                        "And you, sir," went on the failing voice, reaching for my hand, "youyou
                            must take this money backyou must take it back, for I don't need it. You
                            must take it back and andgive itgive it to the poor." And even with the
                            utterance upon the gracious lips the glad soul leaped and fluttered
                            through the open gates.
                    
                
                
                
                    AN ADJUSTABLE LUNATIC.
                    
                    
                        BELLS JANGLED
                        
                            
                                I lie low-coiled in a nest of dreams;
                            
                            
                                The lamp gleams dim i' the odorous gloom,
                            
                            
                                And the stars at the casement leak long gleams
                            
                            
                                Of misty light through the haunted room
                            
                            
                                Where I lie low-coiled in dreams.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                The night-winds ooze o'er my dusk-drowned face
                            
                            
                                In a dewy flood that ebbs and flows,
                            
                            
                                Washing a surf of dim white lace
                            
                            
                                Under my throat and the dark red rose
                            
                            
                                In the shade of my dusk-drowned face.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                There's a silken strand of some strange sound
                            
                            
                                Slipping out of a skein of song:
                            
                            
                                Eeriely as a call unwound
                            
                            
                                From a fairy-bugle, it slides along
                            
                            
                                In a silken strand of sound.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                There's the tinkling drip of a faint guitar;
                            
                            
                                There's a gurgling flute, and a blaring horn
                            
                            
                                Blowing bubbles of tune afar
                            
                            
                                O'er the misty heights of the hills of morn,
                            
                            
                                To the drip of a faint guitar.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                And I dream that I neither sleep nor wake
                            
                            
                                Careless am I if I wake or sleep,
                            
                            
                                For my soul floats out on the waves that break
                            
                            
                                In crests of song on the shoreless deep
                            
                            
                                Where I neither sleep nor wake.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        AN ADJUSTABLE LUNATIC.
                        "AN 'adjustable lunatic?'"
                        "Yes, sir, an adjustable lunaticyou may know I don't make a business of
                            insanity, or I wouldn't be running at large here on the streets of the
                            city."
                        It was on the morning of St. Patrick's Day. I had been drifting aimlessly
                            around the city for hours, tossed about by the restless tide of humanity
                            that ebbed and flowed in true sea-fashion at the Washington and Illinois
                            street crossing. The few friends I had been fortunate enough to fall in
                            with prior to the parade I had been unfortunate enough to lose in the
                            flurry and excitement attending that event; and, brought to a sudden
                            anchorage at the Bates House landing, I found myself at the mercy of a
                            boundless throng that held not one familiar face. It was a literal jam
                            at that juncture, and anxious and impatient as I was to break away, I
                            was forced into a bondage which, though not exactly agreeable, was at
                            least the source of an experience that will linger  in my memory fresh and clear when every other feature of
                            the day shall have faded.
                        I had been crowded into a position on a step of the stairway that gave me
                            a lean upon the balustrade, and placed me head and shoulders above the
                            crowd; and although I comprehended the helplessness of my position, I
                            was, in a manner, thankful for the opportunity it afforded me to study
                            the unsuspecting subjects just below. As my hungry eyes went foraging
                            about from face to face they fell upon the features of an individual so
                            singularly abstracted in appearance and so apparently oblivious to his
                            surroundings, that I mentally congratulated him upon his enviable
                            disposition.
                        He was a slender man, of thirty years, perhaps; not tall, but something
                            over medium height; he had dark hair and eyes, with a complexion much
                            too fair to correspond; was not richly dressed, but neatly, and in good
                            taste.
                        Instinctively I wondered who and what he was; and my speculative fancy
                            went to work and made a lawyer of himthen a ministeran artista
                            musicianan actorand a dancing-master. Suddenly I found my stare returned
                            with equal fervor, and tried to look away, but something held me. He was
                            elbowing  his way to where I stood, and
                            smiling as he came.
                        "I don't know you," he said, when, after an almost superhuman effort, he
                            had gained my side, to the discomfiture of a brace of mangy little
                            bootblacks that occupied the step below "I don't know you personally,
                            but you look bored. I'm troubled with the same disease and want
                            companyas the poet of the Sierras wails, 'How all alone a man may be in
                            crowds!'" Something in the utterance made me offer him my hand.
                        He grasped it warmly. "It's curious," he said, "how friends are made, and
                            where true fellowship begins. Now we've known each other all our lives
                            and never met before. What d'ye say?"
                        I smiled approval at the odd assertion.
                        "But tell me," he continued "what conclusion you have arrived at in your
                            study of me; come, now, be frankwhat do you make of me?"
                        Although I found myself considerably startled, I feigned composure and
                            acknowledged that I had been speculating as to who and what he was, but
                            found myself unable to define a special character.
                        "I thought so," he said. "No one ever reads my characterno one ever will.
                            Why,  I've had phrenologists groping around
                            among my bumps by the hour to no purpose, and physiognomists driving
                            themselves cross-eyed, but they never found it, and they never will. The
                            very things of which I am capable they invariably place beyond my
                            capacity; and, with like sageness, the very things I can't do they
                            declare me to be a master hand at. But I like to worry them; it's fun
                            for me. Why, old Fowler himself, here the other night, thumbed my head
                            as mellow as a May-apple, and never came within a mile of it! Some
                            characters are readable enough, I'm willing to admit. Your face, for
                            instance, is a bulletin-board to me, but you can't read mine, for I'm
                            neither a doctor, lawyer, artist, actor, musician, nor anything else you
                            may have in your mind. You might guess your way all through the
                            dictionary and then not get it. It's simply an impossibility, that's
                            all."
                        I laughed uneasily, for although amused at the quaint humor of his
                            language, a nervous fluttering of the eyes and a spasmodic twitching of
                            the corners of his mouth made me think his manner merely an affectation.
                            But I was interested, and as his conversation seemed to invite the
                            interrogation, I flatly asked him to indulge my curiosity and tell me
                            what he was.
                        "Wait till the crowd thins, and maybe I 
                            will. In the meantime here's a cigar and here's a lightas Mr. Quilp
                            playfully remarks to Tom Scott'Smoke away, you dog you!'"
                        "Well, you're a character," said I, dubiously.
                        "Yes," he replied, "but you can't tell what kind, and I can tell you the
                            very trade you work at."
                        I smiled incredulously.
                        "Now don't look lofty and assume a professional air, for you're only a
                            mechanic, and a sign-painter at that."
                        Although he spoke with little courtesy of address, there was a subtle
                            something in his eye that drew me magnet-like and held me. I was
                            silent.
                        "Want to know how I became aware of that fact?" he went on, with a quick,
                            sharp glance at my bewildered face. "There's nothing wonderful about my
                            knowing that; I've had my eye on you for two hours, and you stare at
                            every sign-board you pass, worse than a country-jake; and once or twice
                            I saw you stop and study carefully some fresh design, or some new style
                            of letter. You're a stranger here in the city, too. Want to know how I
                            can tell? Because you walk like you were actually going some place; but
                            I notice that you never get there, for continually crossing  and recrossing streets, and back-tracking
                            past show-windows, and congratulating your-self, doubtless, upon the
                            thorough business air of your reflection in the plate glass. Come, we
                            can get through now, let's walk."
                        I followed him unhesitatingly. To say that I was simply curious would be
                            too mild; I was fascinated, and to that degree I actually fastened on
                            his arm, and clung there till we had quite escaped the crowd. "I like
                            you, some way," he said, "but you're too impulsive; you let your fancy
                            get away with your better judgment. Now, you don't know me, and I'm even
                            pondering whether to frankly unbosom to you, or give you the slip; and
                            I'll not leave the proposition to you to decide, for I know you'd say
                            'unbosom; so I'll think about it quietly for awhile yet and give you an
                            unbiased verdict."
                        We walked on in silence for the distance, perhaps, of half a dozen
                            blocks, turning and angling about till we came upon an open stairway in
                            an old unpainted brick building, where my strange companion seemed to
                            pause mechanically.
                        "Do you live here?" I asked.
                        "I stay here," he replied, "for I don't call it living to be fastened up
                            in this old sepulcher. I like it well enough at night, for then I feast
                                 and fatten on the gloom and glower
                            that infests it; but in the normal atmosphere of day my own room looks
                            repellant, and I only visit it, as now, out of sheer desperation."
                        If I had at first been mystified with this curious being, I was by this
                            time thoroughly bewildered. The more I studied him the more at a loss I
                            was to fathom him; and as I stood staring blankly in his face, he
                            exclaimed almost derisively: "You give it up, don't you?"
                        I nodded.
                        "Well," he continued, "that's a good sign, and I've concluded to
                            'unbosom'; I'm an adjustable lunatic."
                        "An 'adjustable lunatic!'" I repeated, blankly. And after the remarkable
                            proposition that ushers in the story, he continued smilingly:
                        "Don't be alarmed, now, for I'm glad to assure you of the fact that I'm
                            as harmless as a baby-butterfly. Nobody knows I'm crazy, nobody ever
                            dreams of such a thingand why?Because the faculty is adjustable, don't
                            you see, and self-controlling. I never allow it to interfere with
                            business matters, and only let it on at leisure intervals for the
                            amusement it affords me in the pleasurable break it makes in the
                            monotony of a matter-of-fact existence. I'm off duty to-dayin fact, I've
                            been off duty  for a week; or, to be
                            franker still, I lost my situation ten days ago, and I've been humoring
                            this propensity in the meanwhile; and now, if you're inclined to go up
                            to my room with methe windows are both raised, you see, and you can call
                            for help should occasion require; people are constantly passingif you
                            feel inclined, I say, to go up with me, I'll do my best to entertain
                            you. I like you, as I said before, and you can trust me, I assure you.
                            Come."
                        If I were to attempt a description of the feelings that possessed me as I
                            followed my strange acquaintance up the stairway, I should fail as
                            utterly as one who would attempt to portray the experience of lying in a
                            nine-days' trance, so I leave the reader's fancy to befriend me, and
                            hasten on to more tangible matters.
                        We paused at the first landing, my companion unlocking a door on the
                            right, and handing me the key with the remark: "You may feel safer with
                            it. And don't be frightened," he continued, "when I open the door, for
                            it always whines like somebody had stepped on its knob," and I laughed
                            at the odd figure as he threw the door open and motioned me to
                            enter.
                        It was a queer apartment, filled with a jum--rray
                             of old chairs and stands; old trunks, a
                            loun ge, and a stack of odd-shaped packages. A fro-sy
                            carpet thrown over the floor like a blanke  and a candle-box
                            spittoon with a broken -amp-chimney in it. A little
                            swinging shelf of dusty books, with a railroad map pasted just above it.
                            A narrow table with a telegraph instrument attached, and wires like
                            ivy-vines running all about the walls; and scattered around the
                            instrument was an endless array of zinc and copper scraps, and bits of
                            brass, spiral springs, and queer-shaped little tools. A flute propped up
                            one window, and near it, on another stand, a cornet and an old guitar; a
                            pencil sketch half finished, and a stuffed glove with a pencil in its
                            fingers lying on it; a spirit-lamp, a lump of beeswax, and a hundred
                            other odds and ends, betokening the presence of some mechanical,
                            musical, scientific genius.
                        "It's a bachelor's room," said the host, noting my inquisitive air. "It's
                            a bachelor's room, so you'll expect no apologies. Sit down when you're
                            through with the industrial, and turn your attention to the art
                            department."
                        I followed the direction of his hand, and my eyes fell upon a painted
                            face of such ineffable sweetness and beauty I was fairly dazed. It was
                            not an earthly form, at least in coloring, for  the features seemed to glow with beatific light. The eyes
                            were large, dark and dewy, thrown upward with a longing look, and filled
                            with such intensity of tenderness one could but sigh to see them. The
                            hair, swept negligently back, fell down the gleaming shoulders like a
                            silken robe, and nestled in its glossy waves the ears peeped shyly out
                            like lily-blooms. The lips were parted with an utterance that one could
                            almost hear, and weep because the blessed voice was mute. The hands were
                            folded on a crumpled letter and pressed close against the heart, and a
                            curl of golden hair was coiled around the fingers.
                        "Is it a creation of the fancy?" I asked.
                        "Well, yes," he answered with a dreamy drawl. "I call it fancy, when in a
                            normal state; but now," he continued, in a fainter tone, "I will
                            designate it as a portrait." And oh, so sad, so hopeless and despairing
                            was the utterance, it seemed to well up from the fountain of his heart
                            like a spray of purest sorrow.
                        "Who painted it?" I asked.
                        "'Who painted it?'" he repeated, drowsily
                        "'who painted it?'" Oh, no; I mustn't tell you that; for if I answered
                            you with 'Raphael,' you'd say, 'Ah, no! the paint's too fresh for that,
                            and he's been dead for ages.
                        
                        'Who painted it?' No, no, I mustn't tell you that!"
                        "But are you not an artist? I see an easel in the corner there, and
                            here's a maulstick lying on the mantel."
                        "I an artist? Why, man, what ails you? I told you not ten minutes since
                            that I was an adjustable lunatic; and don't you see I am? You can't
                            mislead me nor throw me off my guard. When it comes to reason or solid
                            logic, don't you find me there? And here again, to show the clearness of
                            my judgment, I remove the cause of our little dissension, and our
                            friendly equanimity is restored" and he turned the picture to the
                            wall.
                        I could but smile at the gravity and adroitness of his language and
                            demeanor.
                        "There," said he, smiling in return; "your face is brighter than the day
                            outside; let's change the topic. Do you like music?"
                        "Passionately," I responded. "Will you play?"
                        "No; I will sing."
                        He took the guitar from the table, and, with a prelude wilder than the
                            "Witches' Dance," he sang a song he called "The Dream of Death," a
                            grievously sad song, so full of minor tones and wailing words, the
                            burden of it still lingers in my ears:
                        
                        
                            "O gentle death, bow down and sip
                            The soul that lingers on my lip;
                            O gentle death, bow down and keep
                            Eternal vigil o'er my sleep;
                            For I am weary and would rest
                            Forever on your loving breast."
                        
                        His voice, as plaintive as a dove's, went trailing through the rondel
                            like weariness itself; and when at last it died away in one long quaver
                            of ecstatic melody, though I felt within my heart an echoing of
                            grief
                        
                            "Too sweetly sad to name as pain,"
                        
                        I broke the silence following to remind him of his having told me he was
                            not a musician.
                        "Only a novice," he responded. "One may twang a lute and yet not be a
                            troubadour. By the way," he broke off abruptly, "is that expression
                            original with me, or have I picked it up in some old book of rhymeOh,
                            yes! How do you like poetry?"
                        He sprang to his feet as he spoke, and without awaiting an answer to his
                            query went diving about in a huge waste-basket standing near the
                            table.
                        "It's a thing I dislike to acknowledge," he went on, "but I don't mind
                            telling you. The fact is, I'm a follower of Wegg and sometimes 'drop
                            into poetryas a friend,' you understand; 
                            and if you'll 'lend me your ears,' I'll give you a specimen of my
                            versification."
                        He had drawn up a roll of paper from the debris of the basket, and
                            unrolling it with a flourish, and a mock-heroic air of inspiration, he
                            read as follows:
                        
                            "A fantasy that came to me
                            As wild and wantonly designed
                            As ever any dream might be
                            Unraveled from a madman's mind,
                            A tangle-work of tissue, wrought
                            By cunning of the spider-brain,
                            And woven, in an hour of pain,
                        
                        To trap the giddy flies of thought."
                        He paused, and with a look of almost wild entreaty he pleaded: "You
                            understand it, don't you?"
                        I nodded hesitatingly.
                        "Why, certainly you do. The meaning's the plainest thing in it. What's
                            your idea of its meaning? tell me! Why don't you tell me!"
                        "Read it again that I may note it carefully."
                        He repeated it.
                        "Why," said I, "it appears to me to be the introduction to a poem written
                            under peculiar circumstances, and containing, perhaps, some strange
                            ideas that the author would excuse for  the
                            reason of their coming in the way they did."
                        "Right!" he exclaimed joyously; "and now if you'll give me your most
                            critical attention, and promise not to interrupt, I'll read the poem
                            entire,"
                        "Go on," I said, for I was far more eager to listen than I would have him
                            know.
                        "And will you excuse any little wildness of gesture or expression that I
                            may see fit to introduce in the rendition?"
                        "Certainly," said I, "certainly; go on!"
                        "And you won't interrupt or get excited? Light another cigar; and here's
                            a chair to throw your feet across. Now, unbutton your coat and lean
                            back. Are you thoroughly comfortable?"
                        "Thoroughly," said I, impatiently."A thousand thoroughlies."
                        "All right," he said; "I'm glad to hear you say it; but before I proceed
                            I desire to call your attention to the fact that this poem is a literary
                            orphana foundling, you understand?"
                        "I understand; go on."
                        And with a manner all too wild to be described, he read, or rather
                            recited, the following monstrosity of rhyme:
                        
                        
                            "I stood beneath a summer moon
                            All swollen to uncanny girth,
                            And hanging, like the sun at noon,
                            Above the center of the earth;
                            But with a sad and sallow light,
                            As it had sickened of the night,
                            And fallen in a pallid swoon.
                            Around me I could hear the rush
                            Of sullen winds, and feel the whirr
                            Of unseen wings apast me brush
                            Like phantoms round a sepulcher;
                            And, like a carpeting of plush,
                            A lawn unrolled beneath my feet,
                            Bespangled o'er with flowers as sweet
                            To look upon as those that nod
                            Within the garden-fields of God,
                            But odorless as those that blow
                            In ashes in the shades below.
                        
                        
                            "And on my hearing fell a storm
                            Of gusty music, sadder yet
                            Than every whimper of regret
                            That sobbing utterance could form;
                            And patched with scraps of sound that seemed
                            Torn out of tunes that demons dreamed,
                            And pitched to such a piercing key,
                            It stabbed the ear with agony;
                            And when at last it lulled and died,
                            I stood aghast and terrified.
                            I shuddered and I shut my eyes,
                            And still could see, and feel aware
                            Some mystic presence waited there;
                            And staring, with a dazed surprise,
                            I saw a creature so divine
                            That never subtle thought of mine
                            
                            May reproduce to inner sight
                            So fair a vision of delight.
                        
                        
                            "A syllable of dew that drips
                            From out a lily's laughing lips
                            Could not be sweeter than the word
                            I listened to, yet never heard.
                            For, oh, the woman hiding there
                            Within the shadows of her hair,
                            Spake to me in an undertone
                            So delicate, my soul alone
                            But understood it as a moan
                            Of some weak melody of wind
                            A heavenward breeze had left behind.
                        
                        
                            "A tracery of trees, grotesque
                            Against the sky, behind her seen,
                            Like shapeless shapes of arabesque
                            Wrought in an oriental screen;
                            And tall, austere and statuesque
                            She loomed before ite'en as though
                            The spirit-hand of Angelo
                            Had chiseled her to life complete,
                            With chips of moonshine round her feet,
                            And I grew jealous of the dusk
                            To see it softly touch her face,
                            As lover-like with fond embrace,
                            It folded round her like a husk:
                            But when the glitter of her hand,
                            Like wasted glory beckoned me,
                            My eyes grew blurred and dull and dim
                            My vision failedI could not see
                            I could not stirI could but stand,
                            Till, quivering in every limb.
                            I flung me prone, as though to swim
                            The tide of grass whose waves of green
                            
                            Went rolling ocean-wide between
                            My helpless shipwrecked heart and her
                            Who claimed me for a worshiper.
                        
                        
                            "And writhing thus in my despair,
                            I heard a weird, unearthly sound,
                            That seemed to lift me from the ground,
                            And hold me floating in the air.
                            I looked, and lo! I saw her bow
                            Above a harp within her hands;
                            A crown of blossoms bound her brow,
                            And on her harp were twisted strands
                            Of silken starlight, rippling o'er
                            With music never heard before
                            By mortal ears, and at the strain
                            I felt my Spirit snap its chain
                            And break away, and I could see
                            It as it turned and fled from me
                            To greet its mistress, where she smiled
                            To see the phantom dancing wild
                            And wizard-like before the spell
                            Her mystic fingers knew so well."
                        
                        I sat throughout it all as though under the strange influence of an
                            Eastern drug. My fancy was so wrought upon I only saw the reader
                            mistily, and clothed, as it were, in a bedragoned costume of the Orient.
                            My mind seemed idlesteeped in drowse and languor, and yet peopled with a
                            thousand shadowy fancies that came trooping from chaotic hiding-places,
                            and mingling in a revelry of such riotous extravagance it seemed a
                            holiday of elfish thought.
                        
                        I shook my head, I rubbed my eyes, arose bewildered, and sat down again;
                            arose again and walked across the room, my strange companion following
                            every motion with an intensity of gaze almost mesmeric.
                        "You fail to comprehend it?" he queried.
                        I shook my head.
                        "You can almost grasp it, can't you?"
                        "Yes," I answered.
                        "But not quite?"
                        "Not quite."
                        "Does it worry you?"
                        "Yes."
                        "Think it will cling to you, and fret you, vex you, haunt you?"
                        "I know it will."
                        "Think you'll ever fully comprehend it?"
                        "I can't say," I replied, thoughtfully.
                        "Perhaps I may in time. Will you allow me to copy it?"
                        "What do you want with it?"
                        "I want to study it," I replied.
                        "And you're sure you don't understand it, and it worries you, and frets
                            you, and vexes you, and haunts you? Good! I'll read you the final clause
                            now; that may throw a light of some kind on it," and, opening the scroll
                            again, he read:
                        
                        
                            "What is it? Who will rightly guess
                            If it be ought but nothingness
                            That dribbles from a wayward pen
                            To spatter in the eyes of men?
                            What matter! I will call it mine,
                            And I will take the changeling home,
                            And bathe its face with morning shine,
                            And comb it with a golden comb
                            Till every tangled tress of rhyme
                            Will fairer be than summer-time;
                            And I will nurse it on my knee,
                            And dandle it beyond the clasp
                            Of hands that grip and hands that grasp,
                            Through life and all eternity!"
                        
                        "Now, what do you think of it?" he asked, with a savageness that startled
                            me.
                        "I am more at sea than ever," I replied.
                        "Well, I wish you a prosperous voyage! Here's the poem; I've another
                            copy. 'Read and reflect,' as the railroad poster says, but don't you
                            publish itat least while I'm alive, for I've no thirst for literary
                            fameI only write for home use; but you're a good fellow, and I like you
                            for all your weak points, and I trust the confidence I repose will not
                            be disregarded. Come!"
                        He had opened the door and was holding out his hand for the key.
                        I gave it to him and followed out mechanically. He left the door ajar and
                            followed to the bottom of the stairs.
                        
                        "And now if you'll pardon me," he said, "I'll say good-bye to you here;
                            I've some packing to do and ought to be at it."
                        "Why, you're not going to leave the city?"
                        I asked.
                        "Well, no, not to-day; but the jig's up with me here, and it's only a
                            question of timeI can't hold out much longeras our rural friend remarks,
                            'Money matters is mighty sceerce;' and if I don't pull out shortly I'll
                            have to 'fold my tent like the Bedouin and silently plagiarize
                            away!"
                        "If I could be of any assistance to you"I began, but he checked me
                            abruptly with, "Oh, no, I don't require it, I assure you; I've two
                            dollars to your one, doubtless. Thank you just the same, and good-bye.
                            Here's my card; it's not my name, however, but it'll answer; I'll not
                            see you again, though you should live to be as bald as a brickyard, for,
                            my dear young friend, I'm going away. Good-bye, and may all good things
                            overtake you!"
                        He gripped my hand like a vise, and turning quickly, went skipping up the
                            stairway two steps at a time.
                        "Good-bye!" I called to him sorrowfully; then turned reluctantly away,
                            examining the card he had given me, which, to my astonishment, was not
                            his card at all, but a railroad  ticket
                            entitling the bearer to a ride from Danville, Illinois, to York,
                            Pennsylvania; this fact I remember quite distinctly, as I read it over
                            and over, revolving in my mind the impression that this was but another
                            instance of his eccentricity, or perhaps a trick by which I might be
                            victimized in some undreamed-of way. But upon second thought I concluded
                            it to be simply a mistake, and so turned back and called him to the
                            window above and explained.
                        He came down and begged my pardon for the trouble he had given me, took
                            the ticket, thanked me, and said good-bye again.
                        "But," said I, "you haven't given me your real card in exchange."
                        "Oh, no matter!" he said smilingly. "Call me Smith, Jones or Robinson,
                            it's all the same; good-bye, and don't forget your old friend and
                            well-wisher, the Adjustable Lunatic," and he vanished from my sight
                            forever.
                        The remainder of the day and half of the night I spent in studious
                            contemplation of the curious composition, but without arriving at any
                            tangible conclusion. I am still engaged with my investigation. Sometimes
                            the meaning seems almost within my mental grasp, but balancing,
                            adjusting and comparing its many curious bearings, I find my judgment
                            persistently  at fault. It has puzzled and
                            bewildered me for weeks. No line of it but canters through my brain like
                            a fractious nightmare; no syllable but fastens on my fancy like a leech,
                            and sucks away the life-blood of my every thought. I am troubled,
                            worried, fretted, vexed and haunted; and I write this now in the earnest
                            hope that wiser minds may have an opportunity of making it a subject of
                            investigation, and because one week ago to-day my eyes fell upon the
                            following special telegram to the Indianapolis Journal: 
                                "PERU, IND., April 12.An
                                    unknown man committed suicide in the eastward-bound train on the
                                    Wabash road, just below Waverly, at about 11 o'clock this
                                    morning. He had in his possession, besides the revolver with
                                    which he shot himself, a ticket from Danville, Illinois, to
                                    York, Pennsylvania, a gold watch, $19 in money, a small valise,
                                    and some letters and other papers which indicated his name to be
                                    George S. Clofling.
                                "He was shot twice in the region of the heart, and his revolver
                                    showed that between the first and last shots two cartridges
                                    missed fire."
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    TOD.
                    
                    
                        LITTLE TOMMY SMITH.
                        
                            
                                Dimple-cheeked and rosy-lipped,
                            
                            
                                With his cap-rim backward tipped,
                            
                            
                                Still in fancy I can see
                            
                            
                                Little Tommy smile on me
                            
                            
                                Little Tommy Smith.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                Little unsung Tommy Smith
                            
                            
                                Scarce a name to rhyme it with;
                            
                            
                                Yet most tenderly to me
                            
                            
                                Something sings unceasingly
                            
                            
                                Little Tommy Smith.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                On the verge of some far land
                            
                            
                                Still forever does he stand,
                            
                            
                                With his cap-rim rakishly
                            
                            
                                Tilted; so he smiles on me
                            
                            
                                Little Tommy Smith.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                Oh, my jaunty statuette
                            
                            
                                Of first love, I see you yet;
                            
                            
                                Though you smile so mistily,
                            
                            
                                It is but through tears I see,
                            
                            
                                Little Tommy Smith.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                But with crown tipped back behind,
                            
                            
                                And the glad hand of the wind
                            
                            
                                Smoothing back your hair, I see
                            
                            
                                Heaven's best angel smile on me
                            
                            
                                Little Tommy Smith.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        TOD.
                        STODDARD Anderson was the boy's name, though had you
                            made inquiry for Stoddard Anderson of any boy of the town in which he
                            livedand I myself lived there, a handy boy in the dim old daysyou
                            doubtless would have been informed that nobody of that name was there.
                            Your juvenile informant, however, by way of gratuitous intelligence,
                            might have gone on to state that two families of the name of Anderson
                            resided there "Old Do-good" Anderson, the preacher, and his brother
                            John. But had you asked for "Tod" Anderson, or simply "Tod," your boy
                            would have known Tod; your boy, in all likelihood, would have had
                            especial reasons for remembering Tod, although his modesty, perhaps,
                            might not allow him to inform you how Tod had "waxed it to him more'n
                            onc't!" But he would have told you, as I tell you now, that Tod Anderson
                            was the preacher's boy, and lived at the parsonage. Tod was a queer
                            boy.
                        
                        Stoddard Anderson was named in honor of some obscure divine his father
                            had joined church under when a boy. It was a peculiar weakness of the
                            father to relate the experience of his early conviction; and as he never
                            tired of repeating it, by way of precept and admonition to the wayward
                            lambkins of his flock, Tod mastered its most intricate and sacred
                            phraseology, together even with the father's more religious formulas, to
                            a degree of perfection that enabled him to preside at mock meetings in
                            the hayloft, and offer the baptismal service at the "swimmin'-hole."
                        In point of personal or moral resemblance, Tod was in no wise like his
                            father. Some said he was the picture of his mother, they who could
                            remember her, for she fell asleep when Tod was three days old, with her
                            mother-arms locked around him so closely that he cried, and they had to
                            take him away from her. No.Death had taken her away from him.
                        It needs now no chronicle to tell how Tod thrived in spite of his great
                            loss, and how he grew to be a big, fat, two-fisted baby with a double
                            chin, the pride and constant worry of the dear old grandmother into
                            whose care he had fallen. It requires no space in history's crowded page
                            to tell how he could stand up  by a chair
                            when eight months old, and crow and laugh and doddle his little chubby
                            arms till he quite upset his balance, and pulling the chair down with
                            him, would laugh and crow louder than ever, and kick, and crawl, and
                            sprawl, and jabber; and never lift a whimper of distress but when being
                            rocked to sleep. Let a babyhood of usual interest be inferredthen add a
                            few more years, and you will have the Tod of ten I knew.
                        O moral, godlike and consistent Christian, what is it in the souls of
                            little children so antagonistic with your own sometimes? What is it in
                            their wayward and impulsive natures that you can not brook? And what
                            strange tincture of rebellious feeling is it that embitters all the
                            tenderness and love you pour out so lavishly upon their stubborn and
                            resentful hearts? Why is it you so covetously cherish the command
                            divine, "Children, obey your parents," and yet find no warm nook within
                            the breast for that old houseless truth that goes wailing through the
                            world,
                        
                            "A boy's will is the wind's will,
                            And the thoughts of youth are long, long thoughts?"
                        
                        Tod went to school. The thriftless Todnot wholly thriftless, either; for,
                            although he had not that apt way of skimming like a swallow  down the placid rills of learning, he did
                            possess, in some mysterious strength, a most extraordinary knack of
                            acquiring just such information as was not taught at school, and had no
                            place within the busy hive of knowledge.
                        Tod was a failure in arithmetic. Tod couldn't tell twice ten from twice
                            eternity. Tod knew absolutely nothing of either Christopher Columbus or
                            the glorious country he discovered expressly for the use of industry and
                            learning, as the teacher would have had him implicitly believe. Tod
                            couldn't tell you anything of John Smith, even, that very noted captain
                            who walks cheek by jowl with the dusky Pocahontas across the illimitable
                            fancy of the ten-year-old schoolboy of our glorious republic. Tod knew
                            all about the famous Captain Kidd, however. In fact, Tod could sing his
                            history with more lively interest and real appreciation than his fellow
                            schoolmates sang geography. The simple Tod once joined the geographical
                            chorus with
                        
                            "I'd a Bible in my hand,
                            As I sailed, as I sailed,
                            And I sunk her in the sand,
                            As I sailed."
                        
                        And Todnot Captain Kiddhad a ringing  in his
                            ears as he sung, as he sung, and an overflow of tears as he sung. And
                            then he ran away from school that afternoon, and sang Captain Kidd, from
                            A to Izzard, in the full hearing of the "industrial hive," to the very
                            evident amusement of "the workers," and the discomfiture of the ruler of
                            "the swarm."
                        The teacher called on the good minister that evening, and after a long
                            talk on the back porch, left late in the dusk, wiping his eyes with one
                            hand, and shaking the other very warmly with the preacher. And Tod
                            slipped noiselessly along the roof above them, and slid down the other
                            side, and watched the teacher's departure with a puzzled face.
                        Tod was at school next morning long before the call of "books." In fact,
                            so early, that he availed himself of his isolated situation to chalk the
                            handle of the teacher's pointer, to bore a gimlet-hole in the
                            water-bucket, to slip a chip under one corner of the clock in order to
                            tilt it out of balance, and in many more ingenious ways to contribute to
                            the coming troubles of the day. The most audacious act, however, was to
                            climb above the teacher's desk and paste a paper-wad over a letter "O"
                            in the old motto, "Be good," that had offered him its vain advice  for years. As one by one these
                            depredations met the teacher's notice through the day, the culprit
                            braced himself for some disastrous issue, but his only punishment was
                            the assured glance the teacher always gave him, and the settled yet
                            forbearing look of pain upon his face. In sheer daring Tod laughed
                            alouda hollow, hungry laugh that had no mirth in itbut as suddenly
                            subsided in a close investigation of a problem in mental arithmetic,
                            when the teacher backed slowly toward his desk and stood covertly
                            awaiting further developments. But he was left again to his own
                            inclinations, after having, with a brazen air of innocence, solicited
                            and gained the master's assistance in the solution of a very knotty
                            problem, which it is needless to say he knew no more of than before.
                            Throughout the remainder of the day Tod was thoughtful, and was
                            evidently evolving in his mind a problem far more serious than could be
                            found in books. Of his own accord, that evening at the close of school,
                            he staid in for some mysterious reason that even his own deskmate could
                            not comprehend. When an hour later, this latter worthy, from the old
                            barn opposite, watched Tod and the teacher hand in hand come slowly down
                            the walk, he whispered to himself with bated  breath: "What's the durn fool up to, anyhow?" From that time Tod grew
                            to be a deeper mystery than he could fathom, inasmuch as some strange
                            spirit of industry fell upon him, and he became a student.
                        Though a perverse fate had seemingly decreed that Tod should remain a
                            failure in all branches wherein most schoolboys readily succeed, he
                            rapidly advanced in reading; and in the declamatory art he soon acquired
                            a fame that placed him high above the reach of competitors.
                        Tod never cried when he got up to "speak." Tod never blanched, looked
                            silly, and hung down his head. Tod never mumbled in an undertonewas
                            never at a loss to use his hands, nor ever had "his piece" so poorly
                            memorized that he must hesitate with awkward repetitions, to sit down at
                            last in wordless misery among the unfeeling and derisive plaudits of the
                            school. Tod, in a word, knew no such word as fail when his turn was
                            called to entertain his hearers either with the gallant story of the
                            youthful "Casabianca," "The Speech of Logan," or "Catiline's Defiance."
                            Let a scholar be in training for the old-time exercises of Friday
                            afternoon, and he was told to speak out clear and fullnot hang his  headnot let his arms
                                -ang down like empty sleevesbut to stand up like
                            a king, look everybody in the face, as though he were doing something to
                            be proud ofin short, to take Tod for his model, and "speak out like a
                            man!"
                        When Tod failed to make his appearance with his usual promptness one
                            Friday afternoon, and the last day of the term, there was evidence of
                            general disappointment. Tod was to deliver an oration written especially
                            for that occasion by the teacher. The visitors were all therethe school
                            committee, and the minister, Tod's father, who occupied Tod's desk alone
                            when "books" was called. The teacher, with his pallid, careworn face,
                            tip-toed up and down the aisles, bending occasionally to ask a whispered
                            question, and to let the look of anxious wonder deepen on his face as
                            the respectful pupils shook their heads in silent response. But upon a
                            whispered colloquy with the minister, his face brightened, as he learned
                            that "Tod was practicing his oration in the wood-house half an hour
                            before the ringing of the bell."
                        A boy was sent to bring him, but returned alone, to say that he had not
                            been able to find any trace of him.
                        "Oh, he'll be here in time enough," said 
                            the teacher apologetically to the sad-faced minister. "He's deeply
                            interested in his effort for this afternoon, and I'm certain he wouldn't
                            purposely disappoint me." The good man in reply shook his head
                            resignedly, with a prayerful flight of the eyes indicative of long
                            suffering and forbearance.
                        The opening services of singing and prayer. No Tod.
                        First class in arithmetic calledexamined. No Tod.
                        Second class, ditto; still no Tod. Primary class in ditto, composed of
                            little twin sisters, aged six, with very red hair and very fair skin,
                            and very short dresses, and very slim legs. Tod failed to join his
                            class.
                        The long-suffering minister was ill at ease. The exercise failed in some
                            way to appease the hunger of the soul within. He looked out of the open
                            window nervously, and watched a saucy little sapsucker hopping up and
                            down a tree; first up one side and then down the other, suddenly
                            disappearing near the roots, and as suddenly surprising him with a
                            mischievous pecking near the top fork. He thought of his poor, wayward
                            boy, with a vague, vague hope that he might yet, in some wise ruling of
                            a gracious Providence, escape the gallows, and with a deep sigh  turned to the noisy quiet of the
                            school-room; he did not even smile as he took up Tod's geography, opened
                            at the boy's latest work, a picture of the State seal, where a stalwart
                            pioneer in his shirt-sleeves hacked away at a gnarled and
                            stubborn-looking tree, without deigning to notice a stampeding herd of
                            buffalo that dashed by in most alarming proximity. The nonchalance of
                            the sturdy yeoman was intensified by Tod's graphic pen, which had
                            mounted each plunging monster with a daring rider, holding a slack
                            bridle-rein in one hand, and with the other swinging a plug hat in the
                            most exultant and defiant manner. This piece of grotesque art, and
                            others equally suggestive of the outcropping genius of their author,
                            were put wearily aside, only serving, as it seemed, to deepen rather
                            than dissolve the gloom enshrouding the good father's face. And so the
                            exercises wore along till recess came, and with it came the missing
                            Tod.
                        "I'm in time, am I? Goody!" shouted Tod, jumping over a small boy who had
                            stooped to pick up a slate pencil, and stopping abruptly in front of the
                            teacher's desk.
                        "Why, Tod; what in the world!"
                        Tod's features wore a proud, exultant smile, though somewhat glamored
                            with a network of spiteful looking scratches; and his  eyes were more than usually bright,
                            although their lids were blue, and swollen to a size that half concealed
                            them. His head, held jauntily erect, suggested nothing but boyish
                            spirit; but his hair tousled beyond all reason, with little wisps of it
                            glued together with clots of blood; his best clothes soiled and torn; a
                            bruised and naked knee showing through a straight rent across one leg of
                            his trousers, conveyed the idea of a recent passage through some gantlet
                            of disastrous fortune.
                        It was nothing, Tod said, only on his way to school he had come upon a
                            blind man who played the fiddle and sold lead pencils, and the boy who
                            had been leading him had stolen something from him; and Tod had
                            voluntarily started in pursuit of the fugitive, only to overtake him
                            after a prolonged chase of more than a mile. "And now I've got you out
                            o' town," said the offender, wheeling suddenly upon him, "I'll jist
                            meller your head for you!" After a long pause, in which Tod's face was
                            hidden from the curious group about him, as the teacher bent above him
                            at the back steps pouring water on his head, he continued: "Didn't think
                            the little cuss was so stout! Oh! I'm scratched up, but you ought to see
                            him! And you ought to hear him holler 'nuf,' and  you ought to see him hand over three boxes of pens and them
                            pen-holders and pencils he stol'd, and a whole bunch o' envelopes;
                            there's blood on some of 'em, and the blind man said I could keep 'em,
                            and he give me a lead pencil, too, with red in one end and blue in the
                            other. Father, you sharpen it."
                        Tod never spoke better in his life than on that memorable afternoonso
                            well indeed did he acquit himself that the good old father failed to
                            censure him that evening for the sin of fighting, and perhaps never
                            would have done so had not the poor blind man so far forgotten the
                            dignity of his great affliction as to get as drunk as he was blind two
                            evenings following, and play the fiddle in front of the meeting-house
                            during divine service.
                        It was in the vacation following these latter-mentioned incidents that an
                            occurrence of far more seriousness took place.
                        Tod had never seen a circus, for until this eventful epoch in our simple
                            history our humble little village had never been honored with the
                            presence of this "most highly moral and instructive exhibition of the
                            age." When the grand cavalcade, with its blaring music and its richly
                            caparisoned horses, with their nodding plumes and spangles, four
                            abreast, drawing the identical "fiery chariot" Tod  had heard his father talk about; when all the
                            highly-painted wagons with their mysterious contents, and the cunning
                            fairy ponies with their little fluffy manes and flossy tailswhen all
                            this burst upon Tod's enraptured eyes, he fell mutely into place behind
                            the band-wagon, with its myriad followers; and so, dazed, awe-stricken
                            and entranced, accompanied the pageant on its grand triumphal march
                            around the town.
                        Tod carried water for the animals; Tod ran errands of all kinds for the
                            showmen; Tod looked upon the gruff, ill-tempered canvas-hand with an awe
                            approaching reverence. Tod was going to the show, too, for he had been
                            most fortunate in exchanging his poor services of the morning for the
                            "open sesame" of all the dreamed-of wonders of the arena. Tod would
                            laugh and whisper to himself, hugging the ticket closely to his
                            palpitating side, as he ran about on errands of a hundred kinds,
                            occupying every golden interlude of time in drawing the magic passport
                            from his pocket and gloating over the cabalistic legend "complimentary,"
                            with the accompanying autograph of the fat old manager with the broad,
                            bejeweled expanse of shirt-front, and a watch-seal as big as a walnut;
                            while on the reverse side he would glut his vision with an "exterior  view of the monster pavilion," where a
                            "girl poised high in air on a cord, in spangled dress," was kissing her
                            hand to a mighty concourse of people, who waved their hats and
                            handkerchiefs in wildest token of approval and acclaim. Nor was this the
                            sole cause of Tod's delight, for the fat man with the big watch-seal had
                            seemed to take a special fancy to him, and had told him he might bring a
                            friend along, that his ticket would pass two. As the gleeful Tod was
                            scampering off to ask the teacher if he wouldn't go, he met his anxious
                            father in a deep state of distress, and was led home to listen in agony
                            and tears to a dismal dissertation on the wickedness of shows, and the
                            unending punishment awaiting the poor giddy moths that fluttered round
                            them. Tod was missed next morning. He had retired very early the evening
                            previous. "He acted strange-like," said the good grandmother, recalling
                            vaguely that he hadn't eaten any supper, "and I thought I heard him
                            crying in the night. What was the matter with him, Isaac?"
                        Two weeks later Tod was discovered by his distracted father and an
                            officer, cowering behind a roll of canvas, whereon a fat man sat
                            declaring with a breezy nonchalance that no boy of Tod's description was
                            "along o' that  'ere party." And the
                            defiant Tod, when brought to light, emphatically asserted that the fat
                            man was in no wise blamable; that he had run away on his own hook, and
                            would do it again if he wanted to. But he broke there with a heavy sob;
                            and the fat man said: "There! there! Cootsey, go along with the old 'un,
                            and here's a dollar for you." And Tod cried aloud.
                        The good minister had brought a letter for him, too, and as the boy read
                            it through his tears he turned homeward almost eagerly. "Dear Tod," it
                            ran; "I have been quite sick since you left me. You must come back, for
                            I miss you, and I can never get well again without you. I've got a new
                            kink on a pair of stilts I've made you, but I can't tell how long to
                            make them till you come back. Fanny comes over every day, and talks
                            about you so much I half believe sometimes she likes you better than she
                            does her old sick uncle; but I can stand that, because you deserve it,
                            and I'm too old for little girls to like very much. It'll soon be the
                            Fourth, you know, and we must be getting ready for a big time. Come home
                            at once, for I am waiting."
                        "To Stoddard Anderson, from his old friend and teacher."
                        Tod went home. He hastened to the teacher's 
                            darkened room. The dear old face had grown paleso very pale! The kindly
                            hand reached out to grasp the boy's was thin and wasted, and the gentle
                            voice that he had learned to love was faint and low so very low it
                            sounded like a prayer. The good minister turned silently and left the
                            two old friends together, and there were teardrops in his eyes.
                        And so the little staggering life went on alone. Some old woman gossip,
                            peering through the eye of a needle on the institution known as the
                            "Ladies' Benevolent Sewing Society," said that it 'peared to her like
                            that boy of the preacher's jest kep' a pinin' and a pinin' away like,
                            ever sence they fetched him back from his runaway scrape. She'd seen him
                            "time and time again sence then, and although the little snipe was
                            innocent-like to all appearances, she'd be bound that he was in
                            devilment enough! Reckoned he was too proud to march in the school
                            p'cession at the teacher's funeral; he didn't go to the meetin' house at
                            all, but put off to the graveyard by hisse'f; and when they got there
                            with the corpse, he was a-settin' with his legs a-hangin' in the grave,
                            and a-pitchin' clods in, and a-smilin'. "And only jest the other
                            evening," she continued, "as I was comin' past there,  kindo in the dusk-like, that boy was
                            a-settin' a-straddle o' the grave, and jest a-cryin'! And I thought it
                            kindo strange-like, and stopped and hollered: 'What's the matter of ye,
                            Tod?' and he ups and hollers back: 'Stumpt my toe, dern ye!' and thinks
                            I 'My youngster, they'll be a day o' reckonin' for you!'"
                        The old world worried on, till July came at last, and with it that most
                            glorious day that wrapped the baby nation in its swaddling-clothes of
                            stripes and stars and laid it in the lap of Liberty. And what a day that
                            was! and how the birds did sing that morning from the green tops of the
                            trees when the glad sunlight came glancing through the jeweled leaves
                            and woke them. And not more joyous were the birds, or more riotous their
                            little throbbing hearts to "pipe the trail and cheep and twitter twenty
                            million loves," than the merry children that came fluttering to the
                            grove to join their revelry.
                        O, brighter than a dream toward the boy that swung his hat from the
                            tree-top near the brook swept the procession of children from the town.
                            And he flushed with some strange ecstasy as he saw a little girl in
                            white, with a wreath of evergreen, wave her crimson sash in answer to
                            him, while the column slowly  filed across
                            the open bridge, where yet again he saw her re-appear in the reflection
                            in the stream below. Then, after the dull opening of prayer, and the
                            more tedious exercises following, how the woods did ring with laughter;
                            how the boys vied with each other in their labars of arranging swings,
                            and clearing under-brush away preparatory to a day of unconfined
                            enjoyment; and how the girls shrieked to "see the black man coming," and
                            how co-quettishly they struggled when captured and carried off by that
                            dread being, and yet what eagerness they displayed in his behalf! And
                            "Ring"men and women even joining in the game, and kissing each other's
                            wives and husbands like mad. Why, even the ugly old gentleman, with a
                            carbuncle on the back of his neck, grew riotous with mirth, and when
                            tripped full length upon the sward by the little widow in half-mourning,
                            bustled nimbly to his feet and kissed her, with some wicked pun about
                            "grass" widows, that made him laugh till his face grew as red as his
                            carbuncle. That bashful young man who had straggled off alone, sitting
                            so uncomfortably upon a log, killing bugs and spiders, like an ugly
                            giant with a monster clubhow he must have envied the airy freedom of
                            those "old boys and girls."
                        
                        Then there was a group of older men talking so long and earnestly about
                            the weather and the crops they had not discovered that the shade of the
                            old beech they sat beneath had stolen silently away and left them
                            sitting in the sun, and was even then performing its refreshing office
                            for a big, sore-eyed dog, who, with panting jaws and lolling tongue, was
                            winking away the lives of a swarm of gnats with the most stoical
                            indifference.
                        And so time wore along till dinner came, and women, with big open
                            baskets, bent above the snowy cloths spread out upon the grass,
                            arranging "the substantials" and the dainties of a feast too varied and
                            too toothsome for anything but epicurean memories to describe. And then
                            the abandon of the voracious guests! No dainty affectationsno
                            formalityno etiquetteno anything but the full sway of healthful
                            appetites incited by the exhilarant exercises of the day into keenest
                            rapacity and relish.
                        "Don't you think it's goin' to rain?" asked some one suddenly. A little
                            rosy-gilled gentleman, with the aid of a chicken-leg for a lever, raised
                            his fat face skyward, and after a serious contemplation of the clouds,
                            wouldn't say for certain whether it would rain or not, but informed the
                            unfortunate querist, after  pulling his
                            head into its usual position and laying down the lever to make room for
                            a bite of bread, that "if it didn't rain there'd be a long dry spell;"
                            and then he snorted a mimic snow-storm of bread crumbs on his vis-a-vis,
                            who looked wronged, and said he "guessed he'd take another piece of
                            that-air pie down there."
                        It was looking very much like rain by the time the dinner things were
                            cleared away. Anxious mothers, with preserve stains on their dresses,
                            were running here and there with such exclamations to the men-folks as
                            "Do hurry up!" and "For goodness sake, John, take the baby till I find
                            my parasol," and "There, Thomas, don't lug that basket off till I find
                            my pickle-dish!"
                        Already the girls had left the swings, which were being taken down, and
                            were tying handkerchiefs over their hats and standing in despairing
                            contemplation of the ruin of their dresses. Some one called from the
                            stand for the ladies not to be at all alarmed, it wasn't going to rain,
                            and there wasn't a particle of danger of; but there a clap of thunder
                            interrupted, and went on growling menacingly, while a little girl, with
                            her hair blown wildly over her bare shoulders, and with a face, which a
                            moment before glowed like her crimson scarf,  now whiter than her snowy dress, ran past the stand and fell fainting
                            to the ground. "Is there a doctor on the grounds?" called a loud voice
                            in the distance, and, without waiting for a response "For God's sake,
                            come here quick; a boy has fallen from the swing, and maybe killed
                            himself!"
                        And then the crowd gathered round him there, men with white faces, and
                            frightened women and little shivering children.
                        "Whose boy is it?"
                        "Hush; here comes his father." And the good minister, with stark features
                            and clenched hands, passed through the surging throng that closed behind
                            him even as the waves on Pharaoh.
                        Did I say all were excited? Not all; for there was one calm face, though
                            very pale paler yet for being pillowed on the green grass and the
                            ferns.
                        "You musn't move me," the boy said when he could speak; "tell 'em to come
                            here." He smiled and tried to lift and fold his arms about his father's
                            neck. "Poor father! poor father!" as though speaking to himself, "I
                            always loved you, father, only you'd never believe itnever believe it.
                            Now you will. I'll see mother, nowmother. Don't cryI'm hurt, and I don't
                            cry. And  I'll see the teacher, too. He
                            said I would. He said we would always be together there. Where's Fanny?
                            Tell hertell her" But that strange unending silence fell upon his lips,
                            and as the dying eyes looked up and out beyond the sighing treetops, he
                            smiled to catch a gleam of sunshine through the foolish cloud that tried
                            so hard to weep.
                    
                
                
                
                    A REMARKABLE MAN.
                    
                    
                        FAME.
                        
                            I.
                            
                                Once, in a dream, I saw a man,
                            
                            
                                With haggard face and tangled hair,
                            
                            
                                And eyes that nursed as wild a care
                            
                            
                                As gaunt Starvation ever can;
                            
                            
                                And in his hand he held a wand
                            
                            
                                Whose magic touch gave life and thought
                            
                            
                                Unto a form his fancy wrought,
                            
                            
                                And robed with coloring so grand,
                            
                            
                                It seemed the reflex of some child
                            
                            
                                Of Heaven, fair and undefiled
                            
                            
                                A face of purity and love
                            
                            
                                To woo him into worlds above.
                            
                            
                                And as I gazed, with dazzled eyes,
                            
                            
                                A gleaming smile lit up his lips
                            
                            
                                As his bright soul from its eclipse
                            
                            
                                Went flashing into Paradise.
                            
                            
                                Then tardy Fame came through the door
                            
                            
                                And found a picturenothing more.
                            
                        
                        
                            II.
                            
                                And once I saw a man, alone,
                            
                            
                                In object poverty, with hand
                            
                            
                                Uplifted o'er a block of stone
                            
                            
                                That took a shape at his command
                            
                            
                                And smiled upon him fair and good
                            
                            
                                A perfect work of womanhood,
                            
                            
                                Save that the eyes might never weep,
                            
                            
                            
                                Nor weary hands be crossed in sleep,
                            
                            
                                Nor hair, that fell from crown to wrist,
                            
                            
                                Be brushed away, caressed and kissed.
                            
                            
                                And as in awe I gazed on her,
                            
                            
                                I saw the sculptor's chisel fall
                            
                            
                                I saw him sink, without a moan,
                            
                            
                                Sink lifeless at the feet of stone,
                            
                            
                                And lie there like a worshiper.
                            
                            
                                Fame crossed the threshold of the hall,
                            
                            
                                And found a statuethat was all.
                            
                        
                        
                            III.
                            
                                And once I saw a man who drew
                            
                            
                                A gloom about him like a cloak,
                            
                            
                                And wandered aimlessly. The few
                            
                            
                                Who spoke of him at all, but spoke
                            
                            
                                Disparagingly of a mind
                            
                            
                                The Fates had faultily designed:
                            
                            
                                Too indolent for modern times
                            
                            
                                Too fanciful, and full of whims
                            
                            
                                For talking to himself in rhymes,
                            
                            
                                And scrawling never-heard-of hymns,
                            
                            
                                The idle life to which he clung
                            
                            
                                Was worthless as the songs he sung!
                            
                            
                                I saw him, in my vision, filled
                            
                            
                                With rapture o'er a spray of bloom
                            
                            
                                The wind threw in his lonely room;
                            
                            
                                And of the sweet perfume it spilled
                            
                            
                                He drank to drunkenness, and flung
                            
                            
                                His long hair back, and laughed and sung
                            
                            
                            
                                And clapped his hands as children do
                            
                            
                                At fairy tales they listen to,
                            
                            
                                While from his flying quill there dripped
                            
                            
                                Such music on his manuscript
                            
                            
                                That he who listens to the words
                            
                            
                                May close his eyes and dream the birds
                            
                            
                                Are twittering on every hand
                            
                            
                                A language he can understand.
                            
                            
                                He journeyed on through life, unknown,
                            
                            
                                Without one friend to call his own,
                            
                            
                                He tired. No kindly hand to press
                            
                            
                                The cooling touch of tenderness
                            
                            
                                Upon his burning brow, nor lift
                            
                            
                                To his parched lips God's freest
                                        q-ift
                                
                            
                            
                                No sympathetic sob or sigh
                            
                            
                                Of trembling lipsno sorrowing eye
                            
                            
                                Looked out through tears to see him die.
                            
                            
                                And Fame her greenest laurels brought
                            
                            
                                To crown a head that heeded not.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                And this is fame! A thing, indeed,
                            
                            
                                That only comes when least the need:
                            
                            
                                The wisest minds of every age
                            
                            
                                The book of life from page to page
                            
                            
                                Have searched in vain; each lesson conned
                            
                            
                                Will promise it the page beyond
                            
                            
                                Until the last, when dusk of night
                            
                            
                                Falls over it, and reason's light
                            
                            
                                Is smothered by that unknown friend
                            
                            
                                Who signs his nom de plume, The End.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        A REMARKABLE MAN.
                        IN the early winter 1875, returning from a rather
                            lengthy sojourn in the Buckeye State, where a Hoosier is scrutinized as
                            critically as a splinter in the thumb of a nearsighted man, I mentally
                            resolved that just as soon as the lazy engine dragging me toward home
                            had poked its smutty nose into the selvedge of my native State, I would
                            disembark, lift my voice and shout for joy for being safely delivered
                            out of a land of perpetual strangers.
                        This opportunity was afforded me at Union City a fussy old -
                            hen-of-a-town, forever clucking over its little brood of railroads, as
                            though worried to see them running over the line, and bristling with the
                            importance of its charge.
                        The place is not an attractive one stepping from the train in the early
                            dusk of a December evening; in fact, the immediate view of the town is
                            almost entirely concealed by a big square-faced hotel, standing, as it
                            were, on the very platform, as though its "runners" were  behind time, and it had come down to
                            solicit its own custom. A walk of sixty steps, however, gave me a
                            sweeping view of the main business street of the city; and here it was,
                            by one of those rare freaks of circumstance, that I suddenly found
                            myself standing face to face with an old friend. "Smith !" said I.
                            "Correct !" said he, and all lacking to complete the tableau was the red
                            light. And now, as my story has more to do with a more remarkable man
                            than either Smith or myself, I shall hasten to that notableonly
                            introducing humbler personages as necessity demands.
                        That night was a bragging, blustering, bullying sort of a night. The wind
                            was madstark, staring mad; running over and around the town, howling and
                            whooping like a maniac. It whirled and whizzed and wheeled about, and
                            whizzed again. It pelted the pedestrian's face with dust that stung like
                            sleet. It wrenched at the signs, and rattled the doors and windows till
                            the lights inside shivered as with affright. The unfurled awnings
                            fluttered and flapped over the deserted streets like monstrous bats or
                            birds of prey; and, gritting their iron teeth, the shutters lunged and
                            snapped at their fastenings convulsively. Such a night as we like to
                            hide away from, and with a good cigar, a good friend, and a good  fire, talk of soothing things and dream.
                            My friend and I were not so isolated, however, upon this occasion; for
                            the suddenness of the storm had driven us, for shelter, into "Bowers's
                            Emporium;" and, seated in the rear of the spacious and
                            brightly-illuminated store, we might almost "dream we dwelt in marble
                            halls," were it not for the rather profuse display of merchandise and a
                            voluminous complement of show-cards, reading "Bargains in Overcoats,"
                            "Best and Cheapest Underwear," "Buy Bowers's Boots !" etc., etc.
                        The clerks were all idle, and employing their leisure in listening to a
                            "fine-art" conversation, casually introduced by my friend remarking the
                            extraordinary development of the bust and limbs of a danscuse on a paper collar-box; and after deploring the
                            prostitution to which real talent was subjected, and satirizing the
                            general degeneracy of modern art, he had drifted back to the rare old
                            day's of Hans Holbein, Albert Durer and that guild. And while dwelling
                            enthusiastically upon the genius of Angelo, I became aware that among
                            the listeners was a remarkable man. It was not his figure that impressed
                            me, for that was of the ordinary mould, and rather shabbily attired in a
                            tattered and ill-fitting coat of blue, sadly faded and buttonless;  a short-waisted vest of no particular
                            pattern, fastened together by means of a loosened loop of binding pulled
                            through a button-hole, and held to its place by a stumpy lead-pencil
                            with a preponderance of rubber at the end; the pantaloons very baggy and
                            fraying at the bottoms, as though in excessive sympathy with a pair of
                            coarse, ungainly army shoes that wore the appearance of having been
                            through "Sherman's march to the sea."
                        Not remarkable, I say, in these particulars, for since "tramping" has
                            arrived at the dignity of a profession, such characteristics are by no
                            means uncommon; but when taken in conjunction with a head and face that
                            would have served as model for either Abraham, Isaac or Jacob, in
                            patriarchal cast of feature and flow of beard, it is no wonder that my
                            fancy saw in the figure before me a remarkable man. He stood uncovered,
                            and in an eager listening attitude, as though drinking every syllable to
                            the very dregs. His eyes were large and lustrous, and with that dreamy,
                            far-off look peculiar to that quality of mind that sees what is
                            described, even though buried in Pompeiian ruins, or under the pyramids
                            of Egypt.
                        He met my rather scrutinizing gaze with a friendly and forgiving
                            expressionadding an  intuitive affinity by
                            a nestling of the palms one within the other and a genial friction
                            indicative of warm impulse and openness, yet withal suggesting a due
                            subservience to my own free will to accept as token of genuine esteem
                            and admiration.
                        I thought I read his character aright in fancying "Here is a man of more
                            than ordinary culture and refinement," and I determined, if it were
                            possible, to know him better. When I took an early opportunity to refer
                            to him for information he responded eagerly, and in so profuse and
                            elegant a style of diction that I was surprised.
                        He referred to Angelo as "That master whose iron pencil painted language
                            on lips of stone, and whose crudest works in clay might well outlive the
                            marble monuments of modern art." He glanced from one topic to another
                            with a grace and ease that not only betokened a true mastery of the
                            language, but an inexhaustible fund of information; nor was it long ere
                            my "stock in hand" dwindled down to the insignificant
                            "yes-and-of-course" verbosity that is not worth the giving away. He
                            dwelt with particular fondness upon literature; frequently referring to
                            me as to works I most admired, and pointing out the beauties and
                            excellence of old authors Shakespeare, 
                            Milton, Pope, Dryden, and a host of others long dead and gone, but whose
                            words live on eternally. All these, as they were successively reviewed,
                            he quoted in a manner that evinced a thorough knowledge of their
                            works.
                        At last, after no little artifice and strategy, I drew him to his own
                            history, which, as he proceeded, grew fantastically interesting. His
                            father, passing rich, had educated him for the ministry; but the
                            profession didn't suit him, or, rather, he didn't suit the profession;
                            for, to be frank, he was rather inclined in his younger days to be a
                            "graceless dog;" and so, when it became evident that he must shift for
                            himself, more at the instigation of literary friends than from any
                            ambition or choice, he had entered the journalistic field, beginning at
                            the bottom of the ladderthe bottomand gradually rising from the
                            compositor's case to the very rung of editorial successwhen there came a
                            crash, a flaw in the grain, my boy, a flaw in the grainand that flaw
                            Well, no matter ! The noblest minds had toppled from the height, and
                            crumbled to the merest debris of pauper intellect. The grandest tomb the
                            finger of the nation could point out was glutted with such food. Did he
                            not remember poor Prentice, and, in memory, recall him now as vividly as
                            though but yesterday, entering  the
                            sanctum of the Louisville Journal, with the old-time greeting: "Ah,
                            Charles; ready for work, I see. Well, here am Ipunctual as Death." And
                            then, after a good stiff brandy, which he could hardly raise to his lips
                            with both trembling hands, poor George! how he would dictate, so rapidly
                            that he (Charles) could scarcely put it down, although a clever hand at
                            writing in those days. Served as amanuensis for five years, and
                            transcribed with his own hand, "'Tis Midnight's Holy Hour," at ten
                            o'clock in the morning, and had the poem entire ready for the compositor
                            at half-past. At such times it was nothing uncommon for George to say,
                            "Well done, thou good and faithful; the big end of the day is left you
                            to transcribe as your pleasure may dictate. Only bear in mind, I shall
                            expect a little gem from your individual pen for to-morrow's issue
                            !"
                        "And do you write?" I broke in abruptly.
                        "I used to write," he answered, as though loath to make the
                            acknowledgment"that is, I sometimes rode Pegasus as a groom might ride
                            his master's horsebut my flights were never highnever high !"
                        "For what reason, may I inquire? Surely you had no lack of inspiration
                            with such men as Prentice about you?"
                        
                        "Aye, there's the rub!" he sighed, with a negative shake. "The
                            association of great men does not always tend to develop genius; the
                            more especially when one's subservient position revolutionizes him into
                            a mere machine. Yet I found some time, of course, for verse-making; and,
                            chiefly owing to the kindly encouragement of Mr. Prentice, I 'gave to
                            the world,' as he was pleased to say, many little poems, but those of
                            them that survive today are vagrants, like myself, and drifting about at
                            the mercy of the press. Here the old man sighed heavily and mechanically
                            fumbled his pencil.
                        I was growing deeply interested in the strange character before me, and
                            although the faces of the group smiled at me significantly, I was not to
                            be beguiled from my new acquaintance.
                        "There is a question," said I, "I would like to ask you, since from
                            actual experience you are doubtless well informed upon it. I have often
                            heard it argued that the best productions of authorspoets in
                            particularare written under the influence of what they are pleased to
                            term 'inspiration;' can you enlighten me as to the truth of that
                            assertion?"
                        "I can say in reply," said the old man, with his unwavering eyes fixed
                            upon mine, "I  can say in reply that the
                            best productions of authorspoets in particularare
                            written under the influence of what they are pleased to term
                            'inspiration.' I have seen it proved."
                        "How proved?" I asked.
                        "Listen. Take, for example, an instance I will cite: A man worn and
                            enfeebled by age, whose eyes are dimmed to sightlessness almost, whose
                            mind, once clear and vivid as the light of daynow wavering and fickle as
                            the wind: and yet at times this influence comes upon him like an
                            avalanche, and as irresistible; a voice cries, 'write! write! write!'
                            nor does he know, when he has obeyed that summons, what his trembling
                            hand has written. Further, that this is divine inspirationhis
                            fragmentary productions will oftentimes be in the exact manner and
                            diction of writers long since passed away; and I am satisfied they are
                            produced at the direct dictation of the departed. I know this!"
                        "You astonish me," said I in unfeigned wonder; "you say you know thishow
                            do you know it?"
                        "Because I am the man."
                        Although the assertion, in my mind, was simply preposterous, there was a
                            certain majesty in the utterance that held me half in awe. I looked upon
                            him as one might look upon  some curious
                            being from an unknown world. He was moving nowpacing grotesquely up and
                            down a little space of half a dozen steps, and wheeling, at the limits
                            of his walk, as nimbly as the harlequin in the pantomime, and repeating,
                            as though to himself, "I am the man; I am the man."
                        "Well, sir," said I, forcing myself into an air of indifference I did not
                            feel; "well, sir, not for a moment questioning your own belief as to
                            this strange influence which may possess you at times, you will pardon
                            me for expressing the vaguest skepticism, since I have never been so
                            fortunate as to witness an actual demonstration." He was about to
                            interrupt me, but I continued coolly, "By what circumstance is this
                            influence introducedor how producedis it"
                        He broke in on me with a keen little pang of a laugh that almost made me
                            shudder. "You are my convert," he exclaimed, excitedly. "Quick! Give me
                            papergive me paper!" but before I could take my note-book from my pocket
                            he had hurriedly snatched a scrap of wrapping-paper from the counter,
                            and bending over it, was writing with great rapidity.
                        His manner was decidedly singular. In the occasional pauses he would make
                            he  would lean his forehead in the palm of
                            his left hand, with the fingers dancing nervously upon the bald spot on
                            the summit of his head, while with the hand that held the pencil he kept
                            up a continued rotary movement in the air. Then he would suddenly pounce
                            down upon the paper before him as though in a perfect frenzy of delight,
                            and line after line would appear as if by magic, each succeeding one
                            preluded by that sharp little yelp of a laugh, and ere three minutes had
                            elapsed, he had covered both sides of the paper. He then threw down his
                            pencil, as though reluctantly, pushed me the scrap and motioned me to
                            read. I was at first completely mystified, for what I had confidently
                            expected to be rhyme was prose; but ere I had examined it far I was as
                            highly gratified as at first disappointed. The writing, although so
                            recklessly scrawled, was quite legible, and here and there gave evidence
                            of more than ordinary grace and elegance; the punctuation, as far as I
                            was able to judge, seemed perfect in every part; and, in fact, the
                            entire production bore the appearance of having been executed by a
                            skillful hand.
                        I copy it verbatim from the original scrap which now lies before me: 
                            
                                "By this time they had come upon the figure of the old hag,
                                    seated by the roadside, and, in a harsh, cracked voice, crooning
                                    a dismal ballad. 'By God's rood,' quoth the knight, in a burst
                                    of admiration, 'did I not tell thee 'twas some fair princess,
                                    decoyed from her father's castle and thus transformed, through
                                    the despicable arts of some wicked enchanter; for thou hast but
                                    to perk an ear to have the sense of hearing bathed and
                                    overflowed with melody. Dost thou not also note rare grace and
                                    sweetest dignity voiced, as it were, from the very tatters that
                                    enclothe her form?' 'Indeed thou mayest,' said the squire; 'for
                                    I have heard it said "rags may enfold the purest gold."Yet in
                                    this instance I am restrained to think it more like the
                                    hidalgo's dinner"very little meat and a good deal of
                                    table-cloth."' 'Hold thy peace, bladderhead,' exclaimed the
                                    knight, 'lest I make thee gnaw thy words with loosened teeth.
                                    Listen what liquid syllables are spilled upon the
                                    atmosphere:
                                
                                    "My father's halls, so rich and rare,
                                    Are desolate and bleak and bare;
                                    My father's heart and halls are one,
                                    Since I, their life and light, am gone.
                                
                                
                                    "O, valiant knight, with hand of steel
                                    And heart of gold, hear my appeal:
                                    Release me from the spoiler's charms,
                                    And bear me to my father's arms.'
                                
                                "The knight had by this time thrown himself from his steed, and
                                    with lance reversed and vizor doffed he sank upon his knees in
                                    the slime and ooze of the dyke, exclaiming: 'Be of good heart,
                                    fair princess! Thy succor is at hand, since the fates have woven
                                    theethe pearl of pearlsinto the warp and woof of my great
                                    destiny. Nay, nay! No thanks! Thy father's beaming eye alone
                                    shall be my  guerdon, for home
                                    thou shalt go, even though I must needs truckle thee thither on
                                    a barrow.'"
                            
                        
                        "Good," said I, grasping the old man by the hand. "Hail Cervantes!"
                        "Cervantes, Cervantes," he mused, as though bewildered; "why, what have I
                            been writing? Is it not poetry?"
                        "Yes," I replied enthusiastically, "both prose and poetry, and that of
                            the rarest school. Read for yourself."
                        I handed him the scrap, but he pushed it from him with a gesture of
                            impatience. "I told you once I could not read it, nor do I know what I
                            have written. Read it aloud."
                        Although I hastened to comply, I did it with a decided air of incredulity
                            as to the belief that he did not already know every word of it, and even
                            closed with the gratuitous comment that I felt assured the quotation was
                            perfect in every particular.
                        "Quotation!" repeated the old man commiseratively; "quotation! Were you
                            as well versed in such works, my son, as you led me at first to presume,
                            you would know at once that not a single line of that occurs in Don
                            Quixote, although I do grant that I am the humble instrument through
                            which the great Cervantes has just spoken." With this remark,  delivered in a half-rebuking,
                            half-compassionate tone, he stood milking his beard and blinking at the
                            chandelier.
                        I acknowledged my error and asked pardon for the insinuation, which I
                            begged he would believe was not intended to offend; and that, upon
                            second thought, I was satisfied that no such matter did exist in the
                            printed history, which fact I have since proved by a thorough
                            investigation.
                        It required, however, considerable inventive tact and show of admiration
                            to counteract the effect of my indiscreet remark; and not was this
                            effectually accomplished until I had incidentally discovered a marked
                            resemblance of his brow to Shakespeare's, which, by actual measurement,
                            I found to correspond to a fraction with the measurement of the mask of
                            that illustrious bard, as furnished by an exhaustive article I had seen
                            a short time previous in one of our magazines.
                        This happily brought about the result I so much longed for, as I was
                            extremely desirous of a further opportunity in which to study the
                            character of this remarkable man. "Ah, Shakespeare!" said he in a burst
                            of genuine eloquence. "There was a mind the gods endowed with wisdom
                            ages have yet to learn; for bright and lustrous as it shines to-daythe
                                 Morning Star of human intellectits
                            glittering purity has yet a million million dawns, each brighter than
                            the last. Its chastened rays are yet to blaze and radiate the darkened
                            waysHold! My pencil! Quickquick!"
                        He snatched at the paper wildly, and bending over it, began writing with
                            a vindictiveness of effort that was alarming. He slashed the t's and
                            stabbed the punctuation points savagely. The writing continued,
                            interspersed occasionally with a pause in which he would flourish his
                            pencil like a dripping sword, only to be plunged again and again into
                            the quivering breast of its victim. Finally he dashed it down, pushed
                            the paper from him as one would spurn a vanquished enemy, and sank, limp
                            and exhausted, into a chair. I snatched up the paper eagerly, and
                            read:
                        
                            
                                Falstaff: I call him dog, forsooth, because he
                                snarls
                            Snarls, d'ye hear?and laves his rabid fangs
                            In slobber-froth that drips in slimy gouts
                            Of venomous slander. Out upon the cur!
                            He sets his mangy foot upon the sod,
                            And grass grows rank and withers at the touch,
                            And tangles into wiry thatch for snakes
                            To spawn beneath. The very air he breathes
                            Becomes a poison gas, and generates
                            Disease and pestilence. Would he were here,
                            That I might whet my sword against his ribs,
                            Although his rotten, putrid soul unhoused
                            Would breed a stench worse than my barber's
                                breath.
                            
                            The dog! The damnable
                            
                                Pistol: Hist! here he comes!
                            God's body! master, has he overheard
                            'Tis cock-crow with thy ghost!
                            (Enter Poins.) How now, my Jack
                            Prince ass of Jacks, methought I heard thee
                                    b-yay.
                            
                            
                                Falstaff: Aye, well and marry! for this varlet
                                here
                            Deserves more brays than praise, the scurvy
                                dog!
                            Good lack! Thou might'st have heard me call him
                                dog
                            A pebble's toss from this; but now that thou art
                                come,
                            My dagger-points of wrath do melt away
                            Before thy genial smile, as icicles
                            Might ooze to nothingness at summer noon.
                            That other flask, you dog! and have a care
                            Thou handle it more gently than the first,
                            Lest I, as thou didst it, thy noddle burst.
                        
                        Although expecting something after the Shakespearian school, I was not
                            prepared for this, and in reading it aloud I actually found myself
                            endeavoring to imitate the stage manner of Hackett, whom years ago I had
                            seen in King Henry Fourth at the old Metropolitan, Indianapolis. "Ah!"
                            said the old man, "You are more familiar with that I see. Tell me, have
                            you ever seen those lines in Shakespeare?" There was such a look of
                            conscious triumph in his face, so self-satisfied an expression, that
                            Ialthough half believing I was in some way being dupedcould but reply
                            that I was most thoroughly convinced the lines  did not occur in any of the works of that great
                            master.
                        "They do not," said the old man briefly.
                        "But how," said I, "is it possible for you to so perfectly imitate his
                            style, not only in language, but theme, expression, force, character,
                            grotesqueness"
                        "Stop, my son; stop!" he broke in; "must I again remind you that it is
                            not imitation; I take no credit to myselfhow dare I when in writing thus
                            my individual mind is gone, simply chaotic. It is not imitation; it is
                            Shakespeare?"
                        I could venture no further comment without fear of offending, and he
                            already stood as though hesitating to depart.
                        "Stay, then," said I, "until I see a further exercise of this marvelous
                            power you possess. Here, sit down, rest awhile; you seem almost
                            exhausted."
                        "I am nearly so," he replied, "but there is no rest for me until this
                            influence is entirely subsided. No rest for me yet; no rest! no
                            rest!"
                        He was again pacing his old walk, like a weary sentinel, and I thought as
                            I gazed upon him, "What riddle of the human kind is this? Over and over
                            again came the question;  and over and
                            over an old rhyme I had somewhere read, mockingly responded
                        
                            "Rain, sun and raina rainbow in the sky;
                            A young man will be wiser by and by 
                            An old man's wits may wander ere he die!"
                        
                        And lulled by the wild monotony of this, I was fast drifting into a
                            dreamy train of thought, when the old man halted suddenly, and with one
                            elbow leaning on the counter and his head resting on his hand, he began
                            humming a tunea strangely sweet and tender air, low, and just a little
                            harsh at first and indistinct, but welling softly into cadence
                            wonderfully rich and purethen quavering again in minor swoons of melody
                            so delicately beautiful I can but liken the effect produced in that
                            ethereal mystery of sound unraveled from the zithern by a master
                            hand,
                        
                            "A slender thread of song in saddest tune."
                        
                        I had leaned forward with my own head resting in my hand, that I might
                            the better listen, and was not aware, until the song abruptly ended,
                            that the old man had been writing as he sang.
                        "There," said he, handing me the scrap, 
                            "you have heard the tune; here are the words, perhaps."
                        It may have been a very foolish thing, it may have been weak and
                            womanish, yet as my eyes bent over it and read, the lines grew curiously
                            blurred toward the last; nor did I guess the cause until a teara great
                            ripe tear-drop fell upon my hand. And, reader, could I present the song
                            to you just as it came to me, with all the strange surroundingsthe
                            stranger experience of the hour; the solemn silence of the group; the
                            wailing of the wind outside as though the world, weary of itself, could
                            only sigh, sigh, sigh! could I prelude it with that low, sweet murmuring
                            of melody that haunts me even now, your own eyes needs must moisten as
                            you read:
                        
                            "THE HARP OF THE MINSTREL."
                            "The harp of the minstrel has never a tone
                            As sad as the song in his bosom to-night,
                            For the magical touch of his fingers alone
                            Can not waken the echoes that breathe it
                                aright;
                            But oh! as the smile of the moon may impart
                            A sorrow to one in an alien clime,
                            Let the light of the melody fall on the heart,
                            And cadence his grief into musical rhyme.
                        
                        
                            "The faces have faded, the eyes have grown dim
                            That once were his passionate love and his
                                pride;
                            And alas! all the smiles that once blossomed for him
                            Have fallen away as the flowers have died.
                            
                            The hands that entwined him the laureate's wreath,
                            And crowned him with fame in the long, long
                                ago,
                            Like the laurels are withered and folded beneath
                            The grass and the stubblethe frost and the
                                snow.
                        
                        
                            "Then sigh, if thou wilt, as the whispering strings
                            Strive ever in vain for the utterance clear;
                            And think of the sorrowful spirit that sings,
                            And jewel the song with the gem of the tear.
                            For the harp of the minstrel has never a tone
                            As sad as the song in his bosom to-night,
                            And the magical touch of his fingers alone
                            Can not waken the echoes that breathe it
                                aright."
                        
                        I had read the lines over to myself, and although recognizing many
                            touches decidedly like those of the famous author of Lalla Rookh, I was
                            not wholly satisfied with the production; and it struck me with peculiar
                            force that an ethereal composition would surely not be so lavishly
                            tinctured with unutterable sorrowaside from being far inferior to a
                            hundred earthly songs of Moore's; so, with this argument for my weapon,
                            I determined to conquer the superstition that had almost overpowered me.
                            I had noticed, too, in both former instances a singular fact: The old
                            man, though so ready to fend off all comment that might reflect a single
                            ray of praise upon himself, listened with more of the air of a critic
                            than one whose interest was merely that of curiosity, and still when the
                            fragmentary production  had been read
                            aloud, a look of more than ordinary satisfaction would lighten up his
                            eyes. These facts, hastily reviewed, determined me upon a course of
                            action I had instant opportunity to adopt.
                        "Read it aloud," said the old man, impatiently; "Read it aloud!"
                        I complied with more than usual enthusiasm, reading verbatim from the copy, until I came to the repetition of the
                            first four lines, which I thus transposed:
                        
                            "The harp of the minstrel has never a note
                            As sad as the song in his bosom expressed,
                            And the magical touch of his fingers afloat
                            Drifts over the echoes that sleep in the
                                breast."
                        
                        This I was careful to deliver without emphasis or mark of any kind by
                            which he might discover any imposition on my part. As I closed I stole a
                            hasty glance at his face, and was gratified to find it wearing a rather
                            startled expression; not only did his features betray a puzzled and
                            questioning air, but his hand was mechanically extended, as though
                            reaching for the paper in my own.
                        "Do you want to see it?" I asked, suddenly, handing him the scrap.
                        "Yes, IO, nono," he broke in, dropping his hand, and his face coloring
                            vividly;  but turning again as quickly, he
                            added: "Yes, give it to me. Where are the others? I must be going."
                        "Why must you go?" I asked, still retaining the scrap; "I had hoped"
                        "I am going!" he interrupted brusquely, snatching up the scraps that lay
                            upon the counter, and reaching for the one I still held. "Give me the
                            poem. I will trouble you no longer."
                        "Allow me to retain it, I beg of you," said I, with a significant smile,
                            and the slightest tinge of sarcasm in my voice. "Let me keep it as a
                            befitting memento of the inspiration I have seen so potently
                            exercised."
                        His face was pale with anger as he replied:
                        "I will not. When you want rhyme write it yourself. You can, at least,
                            write doggerel."
                        "Very neat," said I, laughing. "We understand each other, so let's be
                            friends. Here is my hand and a dollar besides. Give me the other scrapsI
                            want them all."
                        I took them from him as he clutched at the bill, which he smothered in
                            his palm, and turned away without a word.
                        "Here, Charley," called one of the bystanders, "half of that's enough for
                            you tonight."
                        
                        The door slammed violently and he was gone.
                        "Old Cain will have that dollar in just five minutes," continued the
                            man.
                        "And who's Old Cain?" I asked.
                        "Keeps the doggery just over the line."
                        "Old Charley" M is a well-known character in Union Cityhis home, in fact,
                            although he often disappears for long periods, but, as my informant
                            remarked, "always turns up again like a bad penny."
                        The story of his early life is at least based upon the truth, but now so
                            highly colored it is a decidedly difficult matter to detect that simple
                            element.
                        Originally he was a printer, but early abandoned that vocation for
                            another, and that in turn for another, and so on, until by easy
                            gradations he had become, as the old saw has it, "Jack of all trades and
                            master of none."
                        Among his many accomplishments he is a musician of considerable
                            skillplays the flute, violin and guitar all quite passably; a great
                            reader, a fine conversationalistwhich accomplishment I personally vouch
                            for. But chief of all his accomplishments is that of writing clever
                            imitations of the old authors and poets. These productions he prepares
                            with  great care, commits them to memory,
                            and is ready to dispose of them by as ingenious a method.
                        And yet, although he be a vagabond; although his friendssuch as they
                            areare first to call him sot; although the selfish world that hurries
                            past may jostle him unnoticed from the path; and though he styles
                            himself a "graceless dog." in all candor, and in justice to my true
                            belief, I call him a remarkable man.
                    
                
                
                
                    A NEST-EGG.
                    
                    
                        OLD-FASHIONED ROSES.
                        
                            
                                They ain't no style about 'em,
                            
                            
                                And they're sort o' pale and faded;
                            
                            
                                Yit the doorway here, without 'em,
                            
                            
                                Would be lonesomer, and shaded
                            
                            
                                With a good 'eal blacker shadder
                            
                            
                                Than the mornin' glories makes,
                            
                            
                                And the sunshine would look sadder
                            
                            
                                For their good old-fashion' sakes.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                I like 'em 'cause they kind o'
                            
                            
                                Sort o' make a feller like 'em;
                            
                            
                                And I tell you, when I find a
                            
                            
                                Bunch out whur the sun kin strike 'em,
                            
                            
                                It allus sets me thinkin'
                            
                            
                                O' the ones 'at used to grow,
                            
                            
                                And peek in thro' the chinkin'
                            
                            
                                O' the cabin, don't you know.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                And then I think o' mother,
                            
                            
                                And how she used to love 'em,
                            
                            
                                When they wuzn't any other,
                            
                            
                                'Less she found 'em up above 'em!
                            
                            
                                And her eyes, afore she shut 'em,
                            
                            
                                Whispered with a smile, and said,
                            
                            
                                We must pluck a bunch and put 'em
                            
                            
                                In her hand when she wuz dead.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                But, as I wuz a sayin',
                            
                            
                                They ain't no style about 'em
                            
                            
                                Very gaudy or displaying',
                            
                            
                                But I wouldn't be without 'em,
                            
                            
                                'Cause I'm happier in these posies
                            
                            
                                And the hollyhawks and sich
                            
                            
                                Than the hummin'-bird 'at noses
                            
                            
                                In the roses of the rich.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        A NEST-EGG.
                        BUT a few miles from the city here, and on the sloping
                            banks of the stream noted more for its plenitude of "chubs" and
                            "shiners" than the gamier two and four-pound bass for which, in season,
                            so many credulous anglers flock and lie in wait, stands a country
                            residence, so convenient to the stream, and so inviting in its pleasant
                            exterior and comfortable surroundingsbarn, dairy and spring-housethat
                            the weary, sunburnt and disheartened fisherman, out from the dusty town
                            for a day of recreation, is often wont to seek its hospitality. The
                            house in style of architecture is something of a departure from the
                            typical farm-house, being designed and fashioned with no regard to
                            symmetry or proportion, but rather, as is suggested, built to conform to
                            the matter-of-fact and most sensible ideas of its owner, who, if it
                            pleased him, would have small windows where large ones ought to be, and
                            vice versa, whether they balanced properly to the eye or  not. And chimneyshe would have as many as
                            he wanted, and no two alike, in either height or size. And if he wanted
                            the front of the house turned from all possible view, as though abashed
                            at any chance of public scrutiny, why, that was his affair and not the
                            public's; and, with like perverseness, if he chose to thrust his kitchen
                            under the public's very nose, what should the generally fagged-out,
                            half-famished representative of that dignified public do but reel in his
                            dead minnow, shoulder his fishing-rod, clamber over the back fence of
                            the old farm-house, and inquire within, or jog back to the city,
                            inwardly anathematizing that very particular locality, or the whole
                            rural district in general. That is just the way that farm-house looked
                            to the writer of this sketch one week agoso individual it seemedso
                            liberal, and yet so independent. It wasn't even weather-boarded, but,
                            instead, was covered smoothly with some cement, as though the plasterers
                            had come while the folks were visiting, and so, unable to get at the
                            interior, had just plastered the outside.
                        I am more than glad that I was hungry enough, and weary enough, and wise
                            enough to take the house at its first suggestion; for, putting away my
                            fishing tackle for the morning,  at least,
                            I went up the sloping bank, crossed the dusty road, and confidently
                            clambered over the fence.
                        Not even a growling dog to intimate that I was trespassing. All was open
                            gracious-lookingpastoral. The sward beneath my feet was velvet-like in
                            elasticity, and the scarce visible path I followed through it led
                            promptly to the open kitchen door. From within I heard a woman singing
                            some old ballad in an undertone, while at the threshold a trim,
                            white-spurred rooster stood poised on one foot, curving his glossy neck
                            and cocking his wattled head as though to catch the meaning of the
                            words. I paused. It was a scene I felt restrained from breaking in upon,
                            nor would I, but for the sound of a strong male voice coming around the
                            corner of the house:
                        "Sir; howdy!"
                        Turning, I saw a rough-looking but kindly-featured man of sixty-five, the
                            evident owner of the place.
                        I returned his salutation with some confusion and much deference. "I must
                            really beg your pardon for this intrusion," I began, "but I have been
                            tiring myself out fishing, and your home here looked so pleasantand I
                            felt so thirstyand"
                        
                        "Want a drink, I reckon," said the old man, turning abruptly toward the
                            kitchen door, then pausing as suddenly, with a backward motion of his
                            thumb"Jest foller the path here down to the little brickthat's the
                            springand you'll find 'at you've come to the right place fer
                            drinkin'-worter! Hold on a minute tell I git you a tumblerthere're
                            nothin' down there but a tin."
                        "Then don't trouble yourself any further," I said heartily, "for I'd
                            rather drink from a tin-cup than a goblet of pure gold."
                        "And so'd I," said the old man, reflectively, turning mechanically, and
                            following me down the path. "'Druther drink out of a tiner jest a
                            fruit-can with the top knocked offererer a gourd," he added in a
                            zestful, reminiscent tone of voice, that so heightened my impatient
                            thirst I reached the spring-house fairly in a run.
                        "Wellsir!" exclaimed my host, in evident delight, as I stood dipping my
                            nose in the second cupful of the cool, revivifying liquid, and peering
                            in a congratulatory kind of way at the blurred and rubicund reflection
                            of my features in the bottom of the cup, "well-sir, blame-don! ef it
                            don't do a feller good to see you enjoyin' of it thataway! But don't you
                            drink too much o' the worter!'cause there're  some sweet milk over there in one o' them crocks, maybe;
                            and ef you'll jest, kind o' keerful-like, lift off the led of that third
                            one, say, over there to your left, and dip you out a tinful er two o'
                            that, w'y, it 'll do you good to drink it, and it 'll do me good to see
                            you at itbut hold up!hold up!" he called abruptly, as, nowise loath, I
                            bent above the vessel designated. "Hold yer hosses for a second! Here's
                            Marthy; let her git it fer ye."
                        If I was at first surprised and confused, meeting the master of the
                            house, I was wholly startled and chagrined in my present position before
                            its mistress. But as I raised, and stammered, in my confusion, some
                            incoherent apology, I was again reassured and put at greater ease by the
                            comprehensive and forgiving smile the woman gave me, as I yielded her my
                            place, and, with lifted hat, awaited her further kindness.
                        "I came just in time, sir," she said, half laughingly, as with strong,
                            bare arms she reached across the gurgling trough and replaced the lid
                            that I had partially removed. "I came just in time, I see, to prevent
                            father from having you dip into the 'morning's' milk, which, of course,
                            has scarcely a veil of cream over the face of it as yet. But men, as you
                            are doubtless willing to admit," she went 
                            on, jocularly, "don't know about these things. You must pardon father,
                            as much for his well-meaning ignorance of such matters, as for this cup
                            of cream, which I am sure you will better relish."
                        She arose, still smiling, with her eyes turned frankly on my own. And I
                            must be excused when I confess that as I bowed my thanks, taking the
                            proffered cup and lifting it to my lips, I stared with an uncommon
                            interest and pleasure at the donor's face.
                        She was a woman of certainly not less than forty years of age. But the
                            figure, and the rounded grace and fullness of it, together with the
                            features and the eyes, completed as fine a specimen of physical and
                            mental health as ever it has been my fortune to meet; there was
                            something so full of purpose and resolvesomething so wholesome, too,
                            about the charactersomething so womanlyI might almost say manly, and
                            would, but for the petty prejudice, maybe occasioned by the trivial fact
                            of a locket having dropped from her bosom as she knelt; and that trinket
                            still dangles in my memory even as it then dangled and dropped back to
                            its concealment in her breast as she arose. But her face, by no means
                            handsome in the common meaning, was marked with a breadth and strength
                            of outline and expression  that approached
                            the heroica face that once seen is forever fixed in memorya personage
                            once met one must know more of. And so it was, that an hour later, as I
                            strolled with the old man about his farm, looking, to all intents, with
                            the profoundest interest at his Devonshires, Shorthorns, Jerseys, and
                            the like, I lured from him something of an outline of his daughter's
                            history.
                        "There're no better girl 'n Marthy!" he said, mechanically answering some
                            ingenious allusion to her worth. "And, yit," he went on reflectively,
                            stooping from his seat in the barn-door, and with his open jack-knife
                            picking up a little chip with the point of the blade "and yityou
                            wouldn't believe itbut Marthy was the oldest of three daughters, and
                            hedI may sayhed more advantages o' marryin'and yit, as I was jest goin'
                            to say, she's the very one 'at didn't marry. Hed every advantageMarthy
                            did. W'y we even hed her educatedher mother was a-livin' thenand we was
                            well enough fixed to afford the educatin' of her, mother allus
                            contendedand we wasbesides, it was Marthy's notion, too, and you know
                            how women is that-away when they git their head set. So we sent Marthy
                            down to Indianapolus, and got her books and put her in school there, and
                                 paid for her keepin' and everything,
                            and she jestwell, you may say, lived there stiddy fer better'n four
                            year. O' course, she'd git back ever once-an-a-while, but her visits was
                            allus, some-way-another, onsatisfactory-like, 'cause, you see, Marthy
                            was allus my favorite, and I'd allus laughed and told her 'at the other
                            girls could git married ef they wanted, but she was goin' to be the
                            'nest egg' of our family, and 'slong as I lived I wanted her at home
                            with me. And she'd laugh and contend ut she'd as lif be an ole maid as
                            not, and never expected to marry, ner didn't want to. But she had me
                            sceart onc't, though! Come out from the city one time, durin' the army,
                            with a peart-looking young feller in blue clothes and gilt straps on his
                            shoulders. Young lieutenant he wasname o' Morris. Was layin' in camp
                            there in the city somers. I disre-member which camp it was now
                            adzacklybut anyway, it 'peared like he had plenty o' time to go and
                            come, fer from that time on he kep' on a-comin'ever' time Marthy ud come
                            home, he'd come, too, and I got to noticin' 'at Marthy come home a good
                            'eal more'n she used to afore Morris first brought her. And blame ef the
                            thing didn't git to worryin' me! And onc't I spoke to mother about it,
                            and told her ef I thouht the feller wanted to marry  Marthy I'd fest stop his comin' right then and there. But
                            mother she sort o' smiled and said somepin' 'bout men a-never seein'
                            through nothin'; and when I ast her what she meant, w'y she ups and
                            tells me at Morris didn't keer nothin' fer Marthy, ner Marthy fer
                            Morris, and then went on to tell me that Morris was kind o' aidgin' up
                            tords Annieshe was next to Marthy, you know, in pint of years and
                            experience, but ever'body allus said 'at Annie was the purtiest one o'
                            the whole three of 'em. And so when mother told me 'at the signs pinted
                            tords Annie, w'y, of course, I hedn't no particular objections to that,
                            'cause Morris was of good family enough it turned out, and, in fact, was
                            as stirrin' a young feller as ever I'd want for a son-in-law, and so I
                            hed nothin' more to sayner they wasn't no occasion to say nothin',
                            'cause right along about then I begin to notice 'at Marthy quit comin'
                            home so much, and Morris kep' a-comin' more. Till finally, one time he
                            was out here all by his self, long about dusk, come out here where I was
                            feedin', and ast me, all at onc't, and in a straight-forard way, if he
                            couldn't marry Annie; and, some-way-another, blame ef it didn't make me
                            as happy as him when I told him yes! You see that thing proved,
                            pine-blank, 'at he wasn't a-fishin' round for Marthy,  Wellsir, as luck would hev it, Marthy got
                            home about a half hour later, and I'll give you my word I was never so
                            glad to see the girl in my life! It was foolish in me, I reckon, but
                            when I see her drivin' up the laneit was purt' nigh dark then, but I
                            could see her through the open winder from where I was settin' at the
                            supper table, and so I jest quietly excused myself, p'lite like, as a
                            feller will, you know, when they's comp'ny 'round, and I slipped off and
                            met her jest as she was about to git out to open the barn gate. "Hold
                            up, Marthy," says I; "set right where you air; I'll open the gate fer
                            you, and I'll do anything else fer you in the world 'at you want me
                            to!"
                        "W'y, what's pleased you so?" she says, laughin', as she druv slowly
                            through, and ticklin' my nose with the cracker of the buggy-whip.
                        "Guess," says I, jerkin' the gate to, and turnin' to lift her out.
                        "The new peanner's come," says she, eager-like.
                        "Yer new peanner's come," says I, "but that's not it."
                        "Strawberries for supper?" says she.
                        "Strawberries for supper," says I; "but that ain't it."
                        
                        Jest then Morris's hoss whinnied in the barn, and she glanced up quick
                            and smilin' and says, "Somebody come to see somebody?"
                        "You're a-gittin' warm," says I.
                        "Somebody come to see me?" she says, anxious-like.
                        "No," says I, "and I'm glad of itfer this one 'ats come wants to git
                            married, and o' course I wouldn't harbor in my house no young feller 'at
                            was a-layin' round fer a chance to steal away the 'Nest-egg,'" says I,
                            laughin'."
                        Marthy had riz up in the buggy by this time, but as I helt up my hands to
                            her, she sort o' drawed back a minute, and says, all serious-like and
                            kind o' whisperin':
                        "Is it Annie?"
                        I nodded. "Yes," says I, and what's more, I've give my consent, and
                            mother's give hernthe thing's all settled. Come, jump out and run in and
                            be happy with the rest of us!" and I helt out my hands agin, but she
                            didn't 'pear to take no heed. She was kind o' pale, too, I thought, and
                            swallered a time or two like as ef she couldn't speak plain.
                        "Who is the man?" she ast.
                        "Whowho's the man," I says, a-gittin'  kind
                            o' out o' patience with the girl. "W'y, you know who it is, of course.
                            It's Morris," says I. "Come, jump down! Don't you see I'm waitin' fer
                            you?"
                        "Then take me," she says; and blame-don! ef the girl didn't keel right
                            over in my arms as limber as a rag! Clean fainted away! Honest! Jest the
                            excitement, I reckon, o' breakin' it to her so suddent-like'cause she
                            liked AnnieI've sometimes thought, better'n even she did her own mother.
                            Didn't go half so hard with her when her other sister married. Yessir?'"
                            said the old man, by way of sweeping conclusion, as he rose to his feet
                            "Marthy's the on'y one of 'em 'at never marriedboth the others is
                            goneMorris went all through the army and got back safe and sound's
                            livin' in Idyho, and doin' fustrate. Sends me a letter ever' now and
                            then. Got three little chunks o' grand-children out there, and never
                            laid eyes on one of 'em. You see, I'm a-gittin' to be quite a
                            middle-aged manin fact, a very middle-aged man, you might say. Sence
                            mother died, which has benlem-me-seemother's been dead somers in the
                            neighborhood o' ten year.Sence mother died I've ben a-gettin' more and
                            more o' Marthy's notionthat is, you couldn't ever hire me to marry
                            nobody! and them has always  ben, and
                            still is the 'Nest-egg's' views! Listen! That's her a-callin' for us
                            now. You must sort o' overlook the freedom, but I told Marthy you'd
                            promised to take dinner with us to-day, and it 'ud never do to disappint
                            her now. Come on." And ah! it would have made the soul of you either
                            rapturously glad, or madly envious, to see how meekly I consented.
                        I am always thinking that I never tasted coffee till that day; I am
                            always thinking of the crisp and steaming rolls, ored over with the
                            molten gold that hinted of the clover-fields, and the bees that had not
                            yet permitted the honey of the bloom and the white blood of the stalk to
                            be divorced. I am always thinking that the young and tender pullet we
                            happy three discussed was a near and dear relative of the gay Patrician
                            rooster that I first caught peering so inquisitively in at the
                            kitchen-door; and I am alwaysalways thinking of "The Nest-egg."
                    
                
                
                
                    TALE OF A SPIDER
                    
                    
                    
                        THE BEETLE.
                        
                            
                                The shrilling locust slowly sheathes
                            
                            
                                His dagger-voice, and creeps away
                            
                            
                                Beneath the brooding leaves where breathes
                            
                            
                                The zephyr of the dying day:
                            
                            
                                One naked star has waded through
                            
                            
                                The purple shallows of the night,
                            
                            
                                And faltering as falls the dew
                            
                            
                                It drips its misty light.
                            
                            
                                O'er garden-blooms,
                            
                            
                                On tides of musk,
                            
                            
                                The beetle booms adown the glooms
                            
                            
                                And bumps along the dusk:
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                The katydid is rasping at.
                            
                            
                                The silence from the tangled broom:
                            
                            
                                On drunken wings the flitting bat
                            
                            
                                Goes staggering athwart the gloom;
                            
                            
                                The toadstool bulges through the weeds,
                            
                            
                                And lavishly to left and right
                            
                            
                                The fire-flies, like golden seeds,
                            
                            
                                Are sown about the night.
                            
                            
                                O'er slumbrous blooms,
                            
                            
                                On floods of musk,
                            
                            
                                The beetle booms adown the glooms,
                            
                            
                                And bumps along the dusk.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                The primrose flares its baby-hands
                            
                            
                                Wide open, as the empty moon,
                            
                            
                                Slow lifted from the underlands,
                            
                            
                                Drifts up the azure-arched lagoon;
                            
                            
                                The shadows on the garden walk
                            
                            
                                Are frayed with rifts of silver light;
                            
                            
                                And, trickling down the poppy-stalk,
                            
                            
                                The dewdrop streaks the night.
                            
                            
                                O'er folded blooms,
                            
                            
                                On swirls of musk,
                            
                            
                                The beetle boon-s adown the
                                    glooms
                            
                            
                                And bumps along the dusk.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        TALE OF A SPIDER.
                        FIRST I want it most distinctly understood that I am
                            superstitious, notwithstanding the best half of my life, up to the very
                            present, has been spent in the emphatic denial of that fact. And I am
                            painfully aware that this assertion at so late a date can but place my
                            former character in a most unenviable light; yet for reasons you will
                            never know I have, with all due deliberation, determined to hold the
                            truth up stark and naked to the world, with the just acknowledgment,
                            shorn of all attempt at palliation or excuse, that for the best half of
                            my life I have been simply a coward and a liar.
                        SecondFrom a careful and impartial study of my fellow-beings, I have
                            arrived at the settled conviction that nine men of every ten are just as
                            superstitious as myself. Yet, with the difference, that, for reasons I
                            know, they refuse to openly acknowledge it, many of them dodging the
                            admission even within their own ever curious and questioning minds.
                        
                        ThirdMost firmly fixed in this belief and intuitively certain of at least
                            the inner confidence and sympathy of a grand majority of those who read,
                            I throw aside all personal considerations, defy all ridiculeall reason,
                            if you likefor the purpose wholly to devote myself to the narration of
                            an actual experience that for three long weeks has been occurring with
                            me nightly in this very room. You should hear me laugh about it in the
                            daytime! O, I snap my fingers then, and whistle quite as carelessly and
                            scornfully as you doubtless would; but at nightat nightand it's night
                            nowI grow very, very serious somehow, and put all raillery aside, and
                            all in vain here argue by the hour that it's nothing in the world but
                            the baleful imaginings of a feverish mind, and the convulsive writhings
                            of a dyspeptic fancy. But enough!Even forced to admit that I'm a fool, I
                            will tell my story.
                        Although by no means of a morbid or misanthropic disposition, the greater
                            portion of my time I occupy, in strict seclusion, here at my deskfor
                            only when alone can I conscientiously indulge certain propensities of
                            thinking aloud, talking to myself, leaping from my chair occasionally to
                            dance a new thought round the room, or take it in my arms, and  hug, and hold, and love it as I would a
                            great, fat, laughing baby with a bunch of jingling keys.
                        Then there are times, too, when worn with work, and I find my pen
                            dabbling by the wayside in sluggish blots of ink, that I delight to take
                            up the old guitar which leans here in the corner, and twang among the
                            waltzes that I used to know, or lift a most unlovely voice in
                            half-forgotten songs, whose withered notes of melody fall on me like
                            dead leaves, but whose crisp rustling still has power to waken from "the
                            dusty crypt of darkened forms and faces" the glad convivial spirits that
                            once thronged about me in the wayward past, and made my young life one
                            longg peal of empty merriment. Someway, I've lost the knack of wholesome
                            laughter now, and for this reason, maybe, I so often find my fingers
                            tangled in the strings of my guitar, for, after all, there is an
                            indefinable something in the tone of a guitar that is not all of earth.
                            I have often fancied that departed friends come back to hide themselves
                            away in this old husk of song that we might pluck them forth to live
                            again in quavering tones of tenderness and love, and minor voices of
                            remembrance that coax us on to heaven. Pardon my vagaries. I'm practical
                                 enough at times; at times I fail. But
                            I must be clear to-night; I must be, and I will.
                        This night three weeks ago I had worked late, though on a task involving
                            nothing that could possibly have warped my mind to an unnatural state
                            other than that of peculiar wakefulness; for although physically needful
                            of rest, I felt that it was useless to retire; and so I wheeled my sofa
                            in a cozy position near the stove, lighted a cigar (my chum had left me
                            four hours previous), and flinging myself down in languid pose best
                            suiting the requirements of an aimless reverie, I resigned all serious
                            complexities of thought and was wholly comfortable.
                        The silence of the night without was deep. Not a footstep in the street
                            below, and not a sound of any living earthly thing fell on the hearing,
                            though that sense was whetted to such acuteness I could plainly hear the
                            ticking of a clock somewhere across the street.
                        All things about the room were in their usual order. My letters on the
                            desk were folded as I answered them, and filed away; my books were
                            ranged in order, and my manuscripts tucked out of sight and mind, and no
                            scrap of paper to remind me of my never-ended work, save the blank sheet
                            that always lies in readiness for me to pounce upon  on with any vagrant thought that comes along, and close
                            beside it the open inkstand and the idle pen.
                        I had reclined thus in utter passiveness of mind for half an hour,
                            perhaps, when suddenly I heard, or thought I heard, below me in the
                            street, the sound of some stringed instrument. I rose up on my elbow and
                            listened. Some serenader, I guessed. Yes, I could hear it faintly, but
                            so far away it seemed, and indistinct, I was uncertain. I arose, went to
                            the window, raised it and leaned out; but as the sound grew fainter and
                            failed entirely, I closed the window and sat down again; but even as I
                            did so the mysterious tones fell on my hearing plainer than before. I
                            listened closely, and though little more than a ghost of sound, I still
                            could hear, and quite audibly distinguish the faint repeated twanging of
                            the six open strings of a guitarso plainly, indeed, that I instinctively
                            recognized the irritating fact that both the "E" and "D" strings were
                            slightly out of tune. I turned with some strange impulse to my own
                            instrument, and I must leave the reader to imagine the cold thrill of
                            surprise and fear that crept over me as the startling conviction slowly
                            dawned upon my mind that the sounds came from that unlooked for quarter.
                            The guitar was leaning  in its old
                            position in the corner, the face turned to the wall, and although I
                            confess it with reluctance, full five minutes elapsed before I found
                            sufficient courage to approach and pick it up, then I came near dropping
                            it in abject terror as a great, fat, blowsy spider ran across my hand
                            and went scampering up the wall. What do you think of spiders, anyhow?
                            You say "Wooh!" I say you don't know anything about spiders.
                        I examined first the wall to see if there might not be some natural cause
                            for the mysterious sounds; some open crevice for the wind; some loosened
                            and vibrating edge of paper, or perhaps a bristle protruding from the
                            plaster; but I found no evidence that could in any way afford an answer
                            to the perplexing query. An old umbrella and a broom stood in the
                            corner, but in neither of these inanimate objects could I find the
                            vaguest explanation of the problem that so wholly and entirely possessed
                            me.
                        I could not have been mistaken. It was no trick of fancyno hallucination.
                            I had not only listened to the sounds repeated over a dozen times at
                            least, but I had recognized and measured the respective value of the
                            tones, and as I turned, half in awe, took up the instrument and lightly
                            swept the strings, the  positive proof,
                            for the conviction jarred as discordantly upon my fancy as upon my ears.
                            The two strings, "E" and "D," were out of tune. I will no longer attempt
                            the detail of perturbed state of curiosity, and the almost dazed
                            condition of my mind; such an effort would at best be vain. But I sat
                            down, doggedly, at last, and in a spirit of indifference the most
                            defiant I could possibly assume, I ran the guitar up to a keen, exultant
                            key, and dashed off in a quickstep that made the dump old echoes of the
                            room leap up and laugh with melody. I was determined in my own mind to
                            stave off the most unwholesome influence that seemed settling fog-like
                            over me; and as the sharp twang of the strings rang out upon the night,
                            and the rich vibrating chords welled up and overflowed the silence like
                            a flood, the embers of old-time enthusiasm kindled in my heart and
                            flamed up in a warmth of real delight. Suddenly, in the midst of this
                            rapturous outburst, as with lifted face I stared ceilingward, my eyes
                            again fell on that horrid spider, madly capering about the wall in a
                            little circumference of a dozen inches, perhaps, wheeling and whirling
                            up and down, and round and round again, as though laboring under some
                            wild, jubilant excitement.
                        
                        I played on mechanically for a moment, my eyes riveted upon the grotesque
                            antics of the insect, feeling instinctively that the music was producing
                            this singular effect upon it. I was right; for, as I gradually paused,
                            the gyrations of the insect assumed a milder phase, and as I ceased
                            entirely the great, bloated thing ran far out overhead and dropped
                            suddenly a yard below the ceiling, and, pendant by its unseen thread,
                            hung sprawled in the empty air above my face, so near I could have
                            touched it with the lifted instrument. And then, even as I shrank back
                            fearfully, a new line of speculation was suggested to my mind; I arose
                            abruptly, leant the guitar back in the corner, took up a book and sat
                            down at the desk, leaving the silence of the room intensified till in my
                            nervous state of mind I almost fancied I could hear that spider
                            whispering to itself, as above the open pages of the book I watched the
                            space between it and the ceiling slowly widening, till at last the ugly
                            insect dropped and disappeared behind the sofa.
                        I had not long to wait; nor was my curious mind placed any more at ease,
                            when, at last, faint and far-off sounding as at first, I heard the eerie
                            twanging of the guitarthough this time I could with some triumphant
                            pleasure  note the fact that the
                            instrument was in perfect tune. But to thoroughly assure myself that I
                            could in no way be mistaken as to the mysterious cause, I arose and
                            crept cautiously across the carpet until within easy reach of the
                            guitar. I paused again to listen and convince myself beyond all doubt
                            that the sounds were there produced. There could possibly be no mistake
                            about it. Then suddenly I caught and whirled the instrument around, and
                            as I did so the spider darted from the key-board near the top, leaped to
                            the broom-handle and fled up the wall. I tried no more experiments that
                            night, or rather morningfor it must have been three o'clock as I turned
                            wearily away from the exasperating contemplation of the strange subject,
                            turned down the lamp, then turned it up again, huddled myself into a
                            shivering heap upon the sofa, and fell into an uneasy sleep, in which I
                            dreamed that I was a spider of Brobdingnagian proportions, and lived on
                            men and women instead of flies, and had a web like a monster hammock, in
                            which I swung myself out over the streets at night and fished up my prey
                            with a hook and line; thought I caught more poets than anything else,
                            and was just nibbling warily at my own bait, when the line was suddenly
                            withdrawn, the hook catching  me in the
                            cheek, tearing out and letting me drop back with a sullen plunge into
                            the great gulf of the night. And as I found myself, with wildly-staring
                            eyes, sitting bolt upright on the sofa, I saw the spider, just above my
                            desk, lifted and flung upward by his magic line and thrown among the
                            dusky shadows of the ceiling.
                        "Hays," said I to my chum, in the early morning, as he came in upon me,
                            sitting at my desk, and gazing abstractedly at an incoherent scrawl of
                            ink upon the scrap of paper lying before me; "Hays," said I, "what's
                            your opinion of spiders?"
                        "What's my opinion of spiders?" he reiterated, staring at me
                            curiously.
                        "What's your opinion of spiders?" I repeated with my first inflectionfor
                            Hays is a young man in the medical profession, and likes point, fact,
                            and brevity. "What I mean is this," I continued; "isn't it generally
                            conceded that the spider is endowed with a higher order of intelligence
                            than insects commonly?"
                        "I believe so," he replied, with the same curious air, watching me
                            narrowly; "I have a vague recollection of some incident illustrative of
                            that theory in Goldsmith's Animated Nature, or some equally veracious
                            chronicle," with suggestive emphasis on the word "veracious."  "Why do you ask?" And, although half
                            assured I would be sneered at for my pains, I went into a minute
                            recountal of my strange experience of the night, winding up in a high
                            state of excitement, doubtless intensified by the blandly-smiling
                            features of my auditor, who made no interruption whatever, and only
                            looked at me at the conclusion of the dream with gratuitous compassion
                            and concern. "Well!" said I, uneasily, taking an impatient turn or two
                            across the room. "Well!" I repeated, pausing abruptly and glaring at the
                            shrugged shoulders of my stoical companion, "why don't you say
                            something?"
                        "Nothing to say, I suppose," he answered, turning on me with absolute
                            severity. "You never listen to advice. Two months ago I told you to quit
                            this night businessit would wreck you physically, mentally, every way.
                            Why, look at you!" he continued in pitiless reproof, as I flew off on
                            another nervous trip around the room. "Look at you! a perfect crate of
                            bonesno 'get-up' in your walkno color in your faceno appetiteno anything
                            but a wisp of shattered nerves, and a pair of howling-hungry eyes that
                            do nothing else but stare."
                        "It wouldn't seem that you did have much to say, upon the point, at
                            least," I interrupted.
                        
                        "Never mind my physical condition; what do you think of my spider?"
                        "What do I think of your spider!" he repeated contemptuously, "why I
                            think it's a little the thinnest piece of twaddle I ever listened toand
                            I think, further"
                        "Hold on, now!" I exclaimed, a trifle warmed, but smiling, "I knew you'd
                            have to sweat awhile over that, but hold onhold on! I have only told you
                            the minor facts of the strange occurrence, the most startling and
                            irrefutable portion yet remains. Now, listen! What I have already told
                            you I pledge you on my honor is pure truth. I can offer nothing but my
                            word for that. But I will close nowdon't interrupt me if you please: As
                            I awakened from that dream, I saw that spider jerked from above the desk
                            herejust as a small boy might whip up a fish linejerked by his own
                            thread, of course. Well, and I got up at oncecame to the desk like this,
                            feeling instinctively that that infernal spider had some object in
                            lowering itself among my letters; and I found this scrap of paper, which
                            I'll swear I left last night without one blot or line of ink or pencil
                            on it. I found this scrap of paper with this zigzag linewhich you can
                            see was never made with human handscrawled across it, and the ink  was yet wet when I picked it up. Now,
                            what do you say?"
                        He took the scrap of paper in his hand half curiously, and then, as
                            though ashamed of having betrayed so great a weakness, threw it back
                            upon the desk with scarce a look.
                        "What do you say?" I repeated in a tone of triumph.
                        "Well," he replied, "it is barely possible you did see a spider in this
                            last instance, and I must confess that it is a much easier matter for me
                            to imagine a spider dropping by accident into your inkstand and leaving
                            the trail of his salvation across your writing paper, than it is for me
                            to fancy the fantastic insect plucking the strings of your guitar. In
                            fact, the first part of your story won't do at all. I don't mean to
                            intimate that your veracity is defectivenot at all. But I do mean that
                            you have overworked yourself of late, and that your brain needs
                            rest."
                        "But," said I, pushing the scrap of paper toward him again, "you don't
                            seem to recognize the fact that that ugly scrawl of ink means something.
                            Look at it carefully; it's writing."
                        He again took the paper in his hand, but this time without a glance, and
                            ere I could prevent him he had torn it in a half dozen pieces and flung
                            it on the floor.
                        
                        "What do you mean?" I cried, resentfully, springing forward.
                        "Why, I mean that you're a babbling idiot," he answered, in a tone half
                            anger, half alarm; "and if you won't look after your own condition I'll
                            do it for you, and in spite of you! You must quit this workquit this
                            roomquit everything, and come with me out in the fresh air for awhile,
                            or you'll die; that's what I mean!"
                        Although he spoke with almost savage vehemence, I recognized, of course,
                            the real promptings of his action, and smiled softly to myself as I
                            gathered up the scattered scraps of paper from the carpet.
                        "Oh, we'll not quarrel," said I, seating myself patiently at the desk,
                            and dipping my finger in the paste-cup, "we'll not quarrel about a
                            little thing like this; only if you'll just wait a minute I'll show you
                            that it does mean something."
                        "There!" said I, good-naturedly, when I had deftly joined the fragments
                            in their proper places on a base of legal cap; "now you can read it; but
                            don't tear it again, please." I think I was very white when I said that,
                            for my companion took the paper in his hand with at least a show of
                            interest, and looked at it long and curiously.
                        
                        "Well, what is it?" he asked, laying it back upon the desk before me; "I
                            am really very sorry, but I am forced to acknowledge that I fail to find
                            anything exactly tangible in it."
                        "Look," said I; "you see this capital that begins the line; the first
                            letter? It's a 'Y,' isn't it?"
                        "Yes; it looks a little like a 'Y' or a 'G.'"
                        "No; it's a 'Y,'" said I, "and there's no more doubt about it than that
                            this next one is an 'e.'"
                        "Well"
                        "Well, this next letter is an 's'an old-fashioned 's,' but it's an 's'
                            all the same, and you can't make anything else out of it; I've tried it,
                            and it can't be done."
                        "Well, go on."
                        "This is a 'c,'" I continued.
                        "Go on; call it anything you like."
                        "No; but I wa-t you to be thoroughly satisfied."
                        "Oh, do you? Well, it's a 'c,' then; go on."
                        "And this is an 'h.'"
                        "Go on."
                        "And this is an 'o'; you know that!"
                        "Yes; know it by the hole in it."
                        "Don't get funny. And this is an '1.'"
                        "That's an '1.'"
                        
                        "This is an 'a.'"
                        "Close observer!"
                        "And that's an 'r'and that's all."
                        "Well, you've got it all down to suit you; now, what does it spell?"
                        "What does it spell? Why, can't you read?" I exclaimed, flourishing the
                            scrap triumphantly before his eyes. "It spells 'Ye scholar!'why, I could
                            read it across the room!"
                        "Yes, or across the street," he answered caustically. "But come now!" he
                            continued seriously, "throw it aside for the present at least, and let's
                            go out in the sunshine for a while. Here, light a cigar, and come
                            along;" and he moved toward the door.
                        "No," said I, turning to the mysterious scrawl, "I shall hound this thing
                            down while the inspiration's on me."
                        "Inspiration?Bah!" The door slammed but I never turned my head.
                        I had sat thus in dead silence for ten minutes, when suddenly I heard a
                            quick, impatient movement at my back, and then the sharp, impetuous
                            words"In God's name! quit biting your nails like that! Don't you know
                            it's an indication of madness!"
                        I think I need not enter into any explanation as to the reason which,
                            from that moment,  determined me upon a
                            course that could afford no further conflict of opinion other than that
                            already going on within my own mind. That of itself furnished all
                            exasperating controversy that I felt was well for my indulgence. Though
                            in one sense I was grateful for the pointed suggestion of my friend
                            regarding the questionable status of my mental faculties, and by it was
                            made most keenly alive to that peculiar sense of duty that made me look
                            upon myself, and question every individual act, entirely separated from
                            my own personality; in fact, to look upon myself, as I did, clearly and
                            distinctly defined in the light of a very suspicious and a very
                            dangerous character, whose sole intent and purpose was to play and
                            practice upon me all unlooked-for and undreamed-of deceptions, and
                            which, to successfully combat, must needs require the most rigid and
                            unwavering strength of reason.
                        In further justice to my honesty in this resolve, I will say that I at
                            once began the exercise of systematic habits. Although by no means
                            pleasant, I took long rambles in the country; ate regularly of wholesome
                            food, regained my appetite, and retired at night at seasonable hours. I
                            will not say that sleep came sooner to my eyes by reason of the change,
                            but I wooed sleep, anywaylet this 
                            suffice. I threw smoking entirely asidenot a hard trial for me by any
                            means, although an occasional cigar is a great pleasure; but I threw it
                            aside. Did not study so intensely as had been my wont; read but little,
                            and wrote lesseven neglecting my letters; yet, with all this revolution
                            of reform, I am left to confess that I never for one waking moment
                            forgot the mystic legend, "Ye Scholar," or its equally incomprehensible
                            author; and how could I?
                        Since the first discovery of the strange insect and its musical
                            proclivities, but three evenings alone have passed that I have not been
                            favored with its most extraordinary performances on the guitar. In this
                            way has its presence been usually made known. And noting carefully, as I
                            have done, the peculiar times and conditions of its coming, together
                            with such other suggestions as the surroundings have afforded me, I am
                            led to believe that the spider reasoned as a man would reason. In no
                            instance yet has it ever touched the instrument when I sat busy at my
                            desk, and only when my pen was idle in my hand, or I had turned wearily
                            away to pace about the room, has it ever exhibited any inclination
                            whatever to occupy my attention. This curious fact interpreted itself at
                            last in the rather  startling proposition
                            that it was simply an indication on the part of the insect that it
                            desired me to favor it with music, since my time was not better
                            occupied. Virtually this is what it did mean; I know it; I would know
                            and appreciate now any want the insect might choose to express; only at
                            first I was very dull, as one would be naturally. And I noticed, too,
                            that when I first responded to this summons, the spider would leap from
                            the guitar to the wall with every evidence of pleasure, and glide back
                            to its old position near the ceiling, indulging the wildest tokens of
                            glee and approval throughout my performances. And many times I have
                            marched off round and round the room simply thrumming the time, the
                            spider following along the upper margin of the wall with the most
                            fantastic caperings of joy.
                        Other experiments followed, too numerous and too foolish for recountal
                            here, but each, in its way, sufficient to more conclusively establish in
                            my mind the belief that the hideous little monster was endowed with an
                            intelligence as wise and subtle in its workings as was within the power
                            of my own to recognizeeven greaterfor gradually, as we became more
                            accustomed to each other, the ugly insect 
                            grew so tame it would come down the wall and dance for me on a level
                            with my face as I sat playing, and even spring off upon the instrument
                            if I held it out. I found my mind so baffled and bewildered at last that
                            more than once the conviction has been forced upon me that the spider
                            was not a spider, but a ; no, I'll not say that, not yet, not yet!
                        These experiments had progressed for perhaps half a dozen nights, when,
                            one evening as I sat, pen in hand, at the desk here, mechanically poring
                            over the still incomprehensible meaning of the scrawl, and writing and
                            rewriting the two words over and over again upon an empty page before
                            me, I became suddenly aware of a strange sensation of repose. A great,
                            cool quiet fell upon my brain, as when suddenly within some noisy
                            foundry the clanging hammers cease to beat, and all the brazen tumult
                            drops like a plummet into silence fathomless. I felt a soothing languor
                            flowing down and over me, and ebbing through and through my very being.
                            It was not drowsiness; my eyelids were not heavy, nor did they droop the
                            shadow of a shade. I saw everything about me as clearly as I do this
                            very momentonly, I did not seem a part of my surroundings. My eyes,
                            although conscious of all objects within range, were  fixed upon the scrap of paper headed by
                            the zigzag scrawl, and with an intensity of gaze that seemed to pierce
                            the paper and to see through it and beyond it; and I did not think it
                            strange. I was dimly conscious, too, of being under the control of some
                            hitherto undreamed of influence, but I felt no thought of
                            resistancerather courted the sensation. All was utter calm with me; and
                            I did not think it strange. I saw my hand held out before me in this
                            same positionthe forearm resting on the deskthe same pen grasped lightly
                            in my fingers. SlowlyslowlyslowlyI saw the spider lowering itself above
                            it, wavering and swaying in the air, until, at last, I saw it reach its
                            dangling legs and clutch and cling to the penholder at the tip, and rest
                            there; and I did not think it strange. But I grew duller then, and very
                            chilly, though I vividly recall seeing the hand movednot of my own
                            volitionthe pen dipped in the ink, and brought directly over the old
                            scrap whereon the scrawl was traced, and I remember, too, that as I
                            watched the motion of my hand, I still saw beyond the surface of the
                            paper, and read the very words my pen traced afterward. I say the words
                            my pen tracedor my handeitherbothfor the act was not my own, I swear!
                            And the spider still sat  perched there at
                            his post, rocked lightly with the motion of the pen, with all his arms
                            hugged round him as though chuckling to himself, and I say to you again,
                            and yet again, I did not think it strange.
                        Not until the page before me had been filled did I regain my natural
                            state of being, nor did it seem that I then would, had not the spider
                            quitted his position and run down the penholder, leaning from it for an
                            instant, touching and pressing my naked hand; then I was conscious of a
                            keen, exquisite sting, and with a quick, spasmodic motion, I flung the
                            hideous insect from it. As I lifted my white face and starting eyes, I
                            saw the spider wildly clambering toward the ceiling on its invisible
                            thread, and then, with a mingled sense of fear, bewilderment and
                            admiration, as oppressive and as strange as indescribable, I turned to
                            the mysterious scrap and read, traced tremblingly, but plainly, in a
                            dainty, flowing hand, unlike any I had ever seen before, the lines I now
                            copy from the original script before me, bearing the pedantic title of
                            "Ye Scholar:"
                        
                            "Ho! ho! Ye scholar recketh not how lean
                            His lank frame waxeth in ye hectic gloom
                            That smeareth o'er ye dim walls of his room
                            His wavering shadow! Shut is he, I ween,
                            Like as a withered nosegay, in between
                            
                            Ye musty, mildewed leaves of some volume
                            Of ancient lore ye moths and he consume
                            In jointure. Yet a something in his mien
                            Forbids all mockery, though quaint is he,
                            And eke fantastical in form and face
                            As that Old Knight ye tale of chivalry
                            Made mad immortally, yet spared ye grace
                            Of some rare virtue which we sigh to see,
                            And pour our laughter out most tenderly."
                        
                        Over and over I read the strange production to myself; and, as at last I
                            started to my feet repeating it aloud, all suddenly the spider swooped
                            on its flying thread before my upturned face, swung back upon the margin
                            of the wall, and went scampering round and round above me as I read.
                        I did not sleep two hours of the night, but mouthed and mouthed that
                            sonneteven in my scrappy dreamsuntil when morning strained the sunlight
                            through the slatted window-blinds, I turned and dragged myself from the
                            room, like an old, old man, with childish summer fancies in his head and
                            bleak and barren winter in his bones.
                        The night following, and the next night, and the next, I did not permit
                            myself to enter my room after darknot from a sense of fear, but simply
                            because I felt my mind was becoming too entirely engrossed with the
                            contemplation  of a theme that, even yet
                            at times, I feared was more chimera than reality.
                        Throughout the day I worked, as usual with me, perhaps three hours, at
                            such trivial tasks as required only the lightest mental effort; nor did
                            I allow my mind to wander from the matter-of-fact duties before me to
                            the contemplation of the ever-present topic that so confounded it when
                            studiously dwelt upon. Only once in this long abstinence from the
                            fascinating problem did I catch sight of the spider, peering down upon
                            me from behind the shoulder of the little terra cotta bust of Dickens
                            that sits on a dusty bracket just above my desk. I looked up at the
                            little fellow with a smile, rose to my feet, and held out my hand, when,
                            at the motion, the insect cowered trembling for an instant, then sprang
                            up the wall beyond my reach. But from that time on I always felt its
                            presence though unseen, intuitively conscious that at all hours my every
                            act was vigilantly overlooked and guarded by the all-seeing eye of that
                            spider, and that every motion of my pen was duly noted by it, and
                            accepted as token of the fact that I was busy and must not be disturbed.
                            In fact I even allowed my vanity such license that I came to believe
                            that the spider was not only interested in everything I did, but was  actually proud of my accomplishments
                            beside. Certain it is, I argued, that he likes my silence, my music, and
                            my voice, and equally apparent from his actions that he likes my society
                            under any and all circumstances, and it shall not be the promptings of
                            mere curiosity on my part in the endeavor to strengthen and develop this
                            curious bond of fellowship, but my serious and most courteous duty as
                            well.
                        So I went back to my night labors, even greeted the first evening, as I
                            lit my lamp and sat down at the desk, with another mysterious scrawl,
                            which I readily interpreted in the one word "Love."
                        I dashed the scrap down in a very spasm of revulsion and loathing. I can
                            not describe, nor will I weaken, the sense of utter abhorrence that fell
                            upon me, by an attempt to set it forth in words; why, I could taste it,
                            and it sickened me soul-deep! I remember catching quick breaths through
                            my clenched and naked teeth; I remember snatching up the pen as a
                            despairing man might grasp a dagger; I remember stabbing it in the ink,
                            and drawing it back in defiance, but as my hand once more rested on the
                            desk it was my hand no longer. It was like another man's, and that man
                            my deadly foe. I looked upon it vengefully, wishing that in my other I
                            but held an axan old  ax, with a nicked
                            and rusty edge, that I might hack and haggle the traitor-member sheer
                            off at the numb and pulseless wrist. And then the spider! I tried to
                            shrink back as the hideous insect again dangled before my eyes, but
                            could not move. Once more it clutched the holder of the pen, huddled its
                            quivering limbs together, and sqatted in its old position on the tip.
                            And then began the movement of the hand.
                        This time my eyes were fixed upon the insect. I could not move them from
                            it. I could see nothing else; and but for the undulating motions of the
                            pen I felt that I might note its very breathingsand I did see it smile.
                            Oh, horrible! Why, I set my teeth together till my inner sense of
                            hearing pinged like a bell, and I said, away down among the twanging
                            fibers of my heart, "I will kill you for that smile! I will kill youkill
                            you!" and when at last the motion of the hand had ceased, and the
                            hideous insect again ran down the penholder, leaning and pressing in my
                            naked flesh that keen, exquisite sting, I snapped the thrall that bound
                            me, flung the spider violently against the desk, stabbed the pen wildly
                            at i---t with a dozen swift, vindictive motions as
                            the abhorrent thing lay for the moment writhing on its back. And I
                            struck it, too, and pinior 
                             it; but as for an instant I turned away
                            from the revolting sight, my pen still quivering above it, sunken
                            eye-deep in the desk, my victim yet escaped me, for, as I turned again,
                            no sign remained to designate my murderous deed but one poor severed
                            limb, twitching and trembling in ever lessening throes and
                            convulsions.
                        I turned my eyes upon the mysterious scrap once more, with the same
                            unaccountable feeling of dread and revulsion that had possessed me as I
                            read the scrawl. Written in the same minute, tremulous but legible hand
                            in which the first was traced, I read:
                        
                            "O. what strange tragedy is this of mine
                            That wars within, and will not let me cry?
                            My soul seems leaking from me sigh by sigh;
                            And yet I dare not saynor he divine
                            That I, so vile and loathesome in design,
                            Am brimmed with boiling love; but I must lie
                            Forever steeped in seething agony!
                            If all these quivering arms might wreathe and twine,
                            And soak him up in one warm clasp of bliss
                            One long caress, when babbling wild with words
                            My voice was crushed and mangled with his
                                kiss.
                            My soul would whistle sweeter than the birds
                            But now, my dry and husky heart in this
                            Pent heat of gasping passion can but hiss!"
                        
                        Be patient, I am hurrying toward the end, I am very lonesome here alone.
                            For three  long, empty nights have I sat
                            thus, with nothing but the raspings of my pen for company. I can not
                            sleep now; and I wouldn't if I could. My head feels as if I had a very
                            heavy hat on, and I put up my hand sometimes to see. My head is
                            feverish, that's all. I have been working too late again. Last night I
                            heard Hays come up the stepsmy window opens on an alley, but at night
                            the light shows from the street. Hays has a peculiar walk, I'd know it
                            if I heard it in the grass above my grave. And he came up the stairs
                            last night, and knocked and rattled at the door; but I was very still,
                            and so he went away. Sometimes I think that fellow isn't right exactly
                            in his mind. I never knew what silence was before. It will not even
                            whisper to me now. Sometimes I stop and listen, and then it holds its
                            breath and listens toobut we never hear a thing. The old guitar leans in
                            the corner with its face turned to the wall. I know it's sorry, but it
                            would be such a comfort to me if it would only moan or murmur as it used
                            to. I always tune it the first thing when I come in, and lean it back,
                            just as it was when the spider first began to play it, but the spider
                            won't go near it any more. Even the spider has deserted me, and gone
                            away and left me here aloneall alone! One night, late, I  heard it coming up the stairs; and it
                            knocked and rattled at the door, and I wouldn't let it in, and so it
                            went awayand do you know that I have often thought that that spider
                            wasn't rightin its mind, you know? Oh, yes! I have often thought
                            sooften! This hat bothers me, but I'll hurry onI must hurry on.
                        When I came in to-nightno; last night it waswhen I came to work last
                            night, there was another of those scrawls the spider had left for me,
                            and it was written in a very trembling hand. The letters were blotted
                            and slurred together so I could hardly make the word out; but I did make
                            it out, and it was simply the one word, "Death"just "Death." I didn't
                            like the looks of it, and I tried to make it read something else; but it
                            wouldn't. It was "Death." And so I laid it gently on the desk and walked
                            about the room very softly for a long time. And the night kept on
                            getting stiller, and stiller, and stiller, till it just stopped. But
                            that didn't disturb me; I was not sleepy, anyhow, and so I sat down at
                            the desk, took up my pen, and waited. I had nothing else to do, and the
                            guitar wouldn't play any more, and I was lonesome; so I sat down at the
                            desk, and took up the pen and waited.
                        
                        Sometimes I think it's those spells the spider gives me that makes my
                            head feel this way. Feels like I had a heavy hat on; but I haven't any
                            hat on at all, and if I had I wouldn't have it on here in the room. I
                            can't even sit in the cars with a hat on.
                        And so I waited, and waited, but it seemed like it hadn't got still
                            enough for the spider yet. It was still enough for me; but I got to
                            thinking about why the spider didn't come, and concluded at last that it
                            wasn't still enough yet for the spider. So I waited till it got so still
                            I could see it, and then the spider came sliding along down through it;
                            and when it touched the pen-holder, and I got a good clear look at it, I
                            flashed dead-numb clean to the marrow. It was so pale! Did you ever see
                            a spider after it had had a long spell of sickness? That's the way this
                            spider looked. I shuddered as it huddled its trembling legs together and
                            sat down. And then the pen moved off, with that pale, ghastly, haggard
                            insect nodding away again as though it still was victor of the field;
                            and, as at last, I found courage to peer closer into its face, I saw
                            that same accursed smile flung back at me. All pity and compassion fled
                            away, and I felt my heart snarl rabidly and champ its bloody jaws with
                            deadly hate. And when the spider hobbled 
                            down the penholder and touched my hand again, the only sting I felt upon
                            it was the vengeful blow I smote it with the other, as I held and ground
                            it there with an exultant cry that rang out upon the silence till the
                            echoes clapped their very hands and shouted with me, "Dead! dead at
                            last! Dead! dead! and I am free!" O, how I reveled in my fancied triumph
                            as I danced about the room, crunching my hands together till I thought
                            that I could feel the clammy fragments of the hateful thing gaumed and
                            slimed about between my palms and fingers! And what a fool I was! for
                            when at last I unclasped them and spread them wide apart in utter
                            loathing, they were as free from taint or moisture as they are this very
                            moment; and then it all flashed on me that I was in some horrid
                            dreamsome hideous, baleful nightmaresome fell delusion of a fevered
                            sleep. But no! I could not force that comfort on myself, for here the
                            lamp sat burning brightly as at this very moment, and I reached and held
                            my finger on the chimney till it burnt. I wheeled across the room,
                            opened the door, went to the window and raised it, and felt the chill
                            draft sweeping in upon my fevered face. I took my hat from the sofa and
                            dashed out into the night. I was not asleep; I had not been  asleep; for not until broad daylight did
                            I return, to find the window opened just as I had left it; the lamp
                            still blazing at its fullest glare, and that grim scrawl, "Death," lying
                            still upon the desk, with these lines traced legibly beneath it:
                        
                            "And did you ---l now our old friend Death
                                is dead?
                            Ah me! he died last night; my ghost was there,
                            And all his phantom-friends from everywhere
                            Were sorrowfully grouped about his bed.
                            'I die; God help the living now!' he said
                            With such a ghastly pathos, I declare
                            The tears oozed from the blind eyes of the air,
                            And spattered on his face in gouts of red.
                            And then he smiledthe dear old bony smile
                            That glittered on us in that crazy whim
                            When first our daring feet leapt the defile
                            Of life, and ran so eagerly to him:
                            And so he smiled upon us, even while
                            The kind old sockets grew forever dim."
                        
                        I am almost through. It is nearly morning as I write. When daylight
                            comes, and this is finished, I can sleep.
                        That last spider that appeared to me was not the real spider. That last
                            spider was not a spider, and I'll tell you how I know: Four hours ago as
                            I sat writing here, I dipped and dragged a strange clot from the
                            inkstand with my pen. It is barely dry yet, and it is a drowned spider.
                            It is the real spiderthe  other spider was
                            its ghost. Listen: I know this is the real spider from the fact that it
                            has one leg missing, and the leg that has been lying on my desk here for
                            three days and nights, I find upon careful examination and adjustment,
                            is the leg that originally supplied this deficiency.
                        Whatever theory it may please you to advance regarding the mysterious
                            manifestations of the spider while in the flesh, will doubtless be as
                            near the correct one as my own. Certainly I shall not attempt to
                            controvert any opinion you may choose to express. I simply reserve the
                            right, in conclusion of my story, to say that I believe this spider met
                            his death by suicide.
                    
                
                
                
                    WHERE IS MARY ALICE SMITH?
                    
                    
                    
                        THE ELF CHILD.
                        
                            
                                Little Orphant Allie 's come to our house to stay
                            
                            
                                An' wash the cups and saucers up, and brush the crumbs
                                    away,
                            
                            
                                An' shoo the chickens off the porch, an' dust the
                                    hearth, an' keep;
                            
                            
                                An' make the fire, an' bake the bread, an' earn her
                                    board-an'-keep;
                            
                            
                                An' all us other children, when the supper things is
                                    done,
                            
                            
                                We set around the kitchen fire an' has the mostest
                                    fun
                            
                            
                                A-list'nin' to the witch tales 'at Allie tells
                                    about,
                            
                            
                                An' the gobble-uns 'at gits you
                            
                            
                                Ef you
                            
                            
                                Don't
                            
                            
                                Watch
                            
                            
                                Out!
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                
                                    On---c't they was a little boy wouldn't say
                                    his pray'rs
                            
                            
                                An' when he went to bed 'at night, away up stairs.
                            
                            
                                His mammy heerd him holler, an' his daddy heerd him
                                    bawl,
                            
                            
                                An' when they turn't the kivvers down, he wasn't there
                                    at all!
                            
                            
                                An' they seeked him in the rafter-room, an' cubby-hole,
                                    an' press,
                            
                            
                                An' seeked him up the chimbly-flue, an' everwheres, I
                                    guess,
                            
                            
                                But all they ever found was thist his pants an'
                                    round-about!
                            
                            
                                An' the gobble-uns 'll git you
                            
                            
                                Ef you
                            
                            
                                Don't
                            
                            
                                Watch
                            
                            
                                Out!
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            
                                An' one time a little girl 'ud allus laugh an'
                                    grin,
                            
                            
                                An' make fun of ever' one an' all her
                                    blood-an'-kin,
                            
                            
                                An' onc't when they was "company," an' ole folks was
                                    there,
                            
                            
                                She mocked 'em an' shocked 'em, an' said she didn't
                                    care !
                            
                            
                                An' thist as she kicked her heels, an' turn't to run
                                    an' hide,
                            
                            
                                They was two great big Black Things a-standin' by her
                                    side,
                            
                            
                                An' they snatched her through the ceilin' 'fore she
                                    know'd what she's about!
                            
                            
                                An' the gobble-uns 'll git you
                            
                            
                                Ef you
                            
                            
                                Don't
                            
                            
                                Watch
                            
                            
                                Out!
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                An' little Orphant Allie says, when the blaze is
                                    blue,
                            
                            
                                An' the lampwick sputters, an' the wind goes
                                    woo-oo!
                            
                            
                                An' you hear the crickets quit, an' the moon is
                                    gray
                            
                            
                                An' the lightnin'-bugs in dew is all squenched
                                    away,
                            
                            
                                You better mind yer parents, and yer teachers fond and
                                    dear,
                            
                            
                                An' churish 'em 'at loves you, an' dry the orphant's
                                    tear,
                            
                            
                                An' he'p the pore an' needy ones 'at clusters all
                                    about,
                            
                            
                                Er the gobble-uns 'll git you
                            
                            
                                Ef you
                            
                            
                                Don't
                            
                            
                                Watch
                            
                            
                                Out!
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        WHERE IS MARY ALICE SMITH?
                        WHEREisMaryAliceSmith? Oshehasgonehome!" It was the
                            thin, mysterious voice of little Mary Alice Smith herself that so often
                            queried and responded as above every word accented with a sweet and
                            eerie intonation, and a very gaiety of solemn earnestness that baffled
                            the cunning skill of all childish imitators. A slender wisp of a girl
                            she was, not more than ten years of age in appearance, though it had
                            been given to us as fourteen. The spindle ankles that she so airily
                            flourished from the sparse concealment of a worn and shadowy calico
                            skirt seemed scarce a fraction more in girth than the slim, blue-veined
                            wrists she tossed among the loose and ragged tresses of her yellow hair,
                            as she danced around the room. She was, from the first, an object of
                            curious and most refreshing interest to our family to us children in
                            particularan interest, though years and years have interposed to shroud
                            it in the dull dust of forgetfulness, 
                            that still remains vivid and bright and beautiful. Whether an orphan
                            child only, or with a father that could thus lightly send her adrift, I
                            do not know now, nor do I care to ask, but I do recall distinctly that
                            on a raw, bleak day in early winter, she was brought to us, from a wild
                            country settlement, by a reputed unclea gaunt, round-shouldered man,
                            with deep eyes and sallow cheeks and weedy-looking beard, as we
                            curiously watched him from the front window stolidly swinging this
                            little blue-lipped, red-nosed waif over the muddy wagon-wheel to
                            father's arms, like so much country produce. And even as the man resumed
                            his seat upon the thick board laid across the wagon, and sat chewing a
                            straw, with spasmodic noddings of the head, as some brief further
                            conference detained him, I remember mother quickly lifting my sister up
                            from where we stood, folding and holding the little form in unconscious
                            counterpart of father and the little girl without. And how we gathered
                            round her when father brought her in, and mother fixed a cosy chair for
                            her close to the blazing fire, and untied the little summer hat, with
                            its hectic trimmings, together with the dismal green veil that had been
                            bound beneath it round the little tingling ears. The hollow, pale-blue
                            eyes of the child followed  every motion
                            with an alertness that suggested a somewhat suspicious mind.
                        "Dave gimme that!" she said, her eyes proudly following the hat as mother
                            laid it on the pillow of the bed. "Mustn't git it mussed up, sir! er
                            you'll have Dave in your wool!" she continued, warningly as our childish
                            interest drew us to a nearer view of the gaudy article in question.
                        Half awed, we shrank back to our first wonderment, one of us, however,
                            with the bravery to ask: "Who's Dave?"
                        "Who's Dave?" reiterated the little voice, half scornfully, "W'y Dave's a
                            great big boy! Dave works on Barnses place. And he kin purt nigh make a
                            full hand, too. Dave's purt nigh tall as your pap! He's purt nigh growed
                            upDave is! AndDavidMasonJeffries" she continued, jauntily teetering her
                            head from left to right, and for the first time introducing that
                            peculiar deliberation of accent and undulating utterance that we
                            afterward found to be her quaintest and most charming
                            characteristic"AndDavidMasonJeffrieshelikesMaryAliceSmith!" And then she
                            broke abruptly into the merriest laughter, and clapped her little palms
                            together till they fairly glowed.
                        
                        "And who's Mary Alice Smith?" clamored a chorus of merry voices.
                        The elfish figure straightened haughtily in the chair. Folding the
                            slender arms tightly across her breast, and, tilting her wan face back
                            with an imperious air, she exclaimed sententiously, "W'y, Mary Alice
                            Smith is me that's who Mary Alice Smith is!"
                        It was not long, however, before her usual bright and infectious humor
                            was restored, and we were soon piloting the little stranger here and
                            there about the house, and laughing at the thousand funny things she
                            said and did. The winding stairway in the hall quite dazed her with
                            delight. Up and down she went a hundred times, it seemed. And she would
                            talk and whisper to herself, and oftentimes would stop and nestle down
                            and rest her pleased face close against a step and pat it softly with
                            her slender hand, peering curiously down at us with half averted eyes.
                            And she counted them and named them, every one, as she went up and
                            down.
                        "I'm mighty glad I'm come to live in this here house," she said.
                        We asked her why.
                        "O, 'cause," she said, starting up the stairs again by an entirely novel
                            and original method of her own"'cause Uncle Tomps,  ner Aunt 'Lizabeth don't live here; and when they ever
                            come here to git their dinners, like they will ef you don't watch out,
                            w'y then I kin slip out here on these here stairs and play like I was
                            climin' up to the Good World where my mother isthat's why!"
                        Then we hushed our laughter, and asked her where her home was, and what
                            it was like, and why she didn't like her Uncle Tomps and Aunt 'Lizabeth,
                            and if she wouldn't want to visit them sometimes.
                        "O, yes," she artlessly answered in reply to the concluding query; "I'll
                            want to go back there lots o' times; but not to see them!
                            I'llonlygobacktheretosee"and here she was holding up the little
                            flared-out fingers of her left hand, and with the index finger of the
                            right touching their pink tips in ordered notation with the accent of
                            every gleeful
                            word,"I'llonlygobacktheretoseeDavidMasonJeffries'causehe'stheboyferme!"
                            And then she clapped her hands again and laughed in that
                            half-hysterical, half-musical way of hers till we all joined in and made
                            the echoes of the old hall ring again. "And then," she went on, suddenly
                            throwing out an imperative gesture of silence; "and then, after I've
                            been in this here house a long, long time, and you all  git so's you like me awfulawfulawful
                            well, then some day you'll go in that room thereand that room thereand
                            in the kitchenand out on the porchand down the cellarand out in the
                            smoke-houseand the wood-house and the loftan' all aroundO, ever'
                            placeand in hereand up the stairsand all them rooms up thereand you'll
                            look behind all the doorsand in all the cubboardsand under all the
                            bedsand then you'll look sorry-like, and holler out, kindo skeert, and
                            you'll say" WhereisMaryAliceSmith?" And then you'll wait and listen and
                            hold your breath: and then somepin'll holler back, away fer off, and
                            say: "Oshehasgonehome!" And then ever'thing'll be all still agin, and
                            you'll be afeard to holler anymoreand you dursn't playand you can't
                            laugh, and your throat'll thist hurt and hurt, like you been a-eatin'
                            too much calamus root er some-pin'!" And as the little gypsy concluded
                            her weird prophecy with a final flourish of her big, pale eyes, we
                            glanced furtively at each other's awe-struck face, with a superstitious
                            dread of a vague, indefinite disaster most certainly awaiting us around
                            some shadowy corner of the future. Through all this speech she had been
                            slowly and silently groping up the winding steps, her voice growing
                            fainter and fainter,  and the little
                            pixy-form fading, and wholly vanishing at last around the spiral
                            banister of the upper landing. Then down to us from that alien recess
                            came the voice alone, touched with a tone of wild entreaty and despair:
                            "WhereisMaryAliceSmith?" And then a long, breathless pause, in which our
                            wide-eyed group below huddled still closer, pale and mute. Thenfar off
                            and faint and quavering with a tenderness of pathos that dews the eyes
                            of memory even nowcame, like a belated echo, the voice all desolate:
                            "Oshehasgonehome!"
                        What a queer girl she was, and what a fascinating influence she
                            unconsciously exerted over us! We never tired of her presence, but she,
                            deprived of ours by the many household tasks that she herself assumed,
                            so rigidly maintained and deftly executed, seemed always just as happy
                            when alone as when in our boisterous, fun-loving company. Such resources
                            had Mary Alice Smithsuch a wonderfully inventive fancy! She could talk
                            to herself, a favorite amusement, I might almost say a popular
                            amusement, of hers, since these monologues at times would involve
                            numberless characters, chipping in from manifold quarters of a wholesale
                            discussion, and querying and exaggerating, agreeing and controverting,
                                 till the dishes she was washing would
                            clash and clang excitedly in the general badinage. Loaded with a pyramid
                            of glistening cups and saucers she would improvise a gallant line of
                            march from the kitchen table to the pantry, heading an imaginary
                            procession, and whistling a fife-tune that would stir your blood. Then
                            she would trippingly return, rippling her rosy fingers up and down the
                            keys of an imaginary portable piano, or stammering flat-soled across the
                            floor, chuffing and tooting like a locomotive. And she would gravely
                            propound to herself the most intricate riddlesponder thoughtfully and in
                            silence over themhazard the most ridiculous answers, and laugh
                            derisively at her own affected ignorance. She would guess again and
                            again, and assume the most gleeful surprise upon at last giving the
                            proper answer, and then she would laugh jubilantly, and mockingly scout
                            herself with having given out "a fool-riddle" that she could guess "with
                            both eyes shut."
                        "Talk about riddles," she said abruptly to us, one evening after supper,
                            as we lingered watching her clearing away the table; "talk about
                            riddles, ittakesDavidMasonJeffriestotellriddles! Bet you don't know
                        
                        
                            'Riddle-cum, riddle-cum right!
                            Where was I last Saturday night?
                            The winds did blowthe boughs did shake
                            I saw the hole a fox did make!'"
                        
                        Again we felt that indefinable thrill never separate from the strange
                            utterance, suggestive always of some dark mystery, and fascinating and
                            holding the childish fancy in complete control.
                        "Bet you don't know this un neither:
                        
                            'A holler-hearted father,
                            And a hump-back mother
                            Three black orphants
                            All born together!'"
                        
                        We were dumb.
                        "You can't guess nothin'," she said, half pityingly, "W'y them's easy as
                            fallin' off a chunk! First uns a man named Fox, and he kilt his wife and
                            chopped her head off, and they was a man named Wright lived in that
                            neighborhoodand he was a goin' homeand it was Saturday nightand he was
                            a-comin' through the big woodsand they was a stormand Wright he clum a
                            tree to git out the rain, and while he was up there here come along a
                            man with a dead womanand a pickax, and a spade. And he drug the dead
                            woman under the same tree  where Mr.
                            Wright wasso ever' time it ud lightnin', w'y Wright he could look down
                            and see him a-diggin' a grave there to bury the woman in. So Wright he
                            kep' still till he got her buried all right, you know, and went back
                            home; and then he clumb down and lit out fer town, and waked up the
                            constabuland he got a supeeny and went out to Fox's place, and had him
                            jerked up 'fore the gran' jury. Then, when Fox was in court and wanted
                            to know where their proof was that he kilt his wife, w'y Wright he jumps
                            up and says that riddle to the judge and all the neighbors that was
                            there. And so when they got it all studied outw'y they tuck ole Fox out
                            and hung him under the same tree where he buried Mrs. Fox under. And
                            that's all o'that'n; and the other'nI promisedDavidMasonJeffriesI
                            wouldn'tnevertellnolivinsoul'lesshegimmeleef,ertheyguesseditouttheirownse'f!"
                            And as she gave this rather ambiguous explanation of the first riddle,
                            with the mysterious comment on the latter in conclusion, she shook her
                            elfin tresses back over her shoulders with a cunning toss of her head
                            and a glimmering twinkle of her pale bright eyes that somehow reminded
                            us of the fairy god-mother in Cinderella.
                        
                        And Mary Alice Smith was right, too, in her early prognostications
                            regarding the visits of her Uncle Tomps and Aunt 'Lizabeth. Many times
                            through the winter they "jest dropped in," as Aunt 'Lizabeth always
                            expressed it, "to see how we was a-gittin' on with Mary Alice." And
                            once, "in court week," during a prolonged trial in which Uncle Tomps and
                            Aunt 'Lizabeth rather prominently figured, they "jest dropped in" upon
                            us and settled down and dwelt with us for the longest five days and
                            nights we children had ever in our lives experienced. Nor was our long
                            term of restraint from childish sports relieved wholly by their absence,
                            since Aunt 'Lizabeth had taken Mary Alice back with them, saying that "A
                            good long visit to her dear ole homepore as it waswould do the child
                            good."
                        And then it was that we went about the house in moody silence, the
                            question, "WhereisMaryAliceSmith?" forever yearning at our lips for
                            utterance, and the still belated echo in the old hall overhead forever
                            answering, "Oshehasgonehome!"
                        It was early spring when she returned. And we were looking for her
                            coming, and knew a week beforehand the very day she would arrivefor had
                            not Aunt 'Lizabeth sent  special word by
                            Uncle Tomps, who "had come to town to do his millin', and git the latest
                            war news, not to fail to jest drop in and tell us that they was layin'
                            off to send Mary Alice in next Saturday."
                        Our little town, like every other village and metropolis throughout the
                            country at that time, was, to the children, at least, a scene of
                            continuous holiday and carnival. The nation's heart was palpitating with
                            the feverish pulse of war, and already the still half-frozen clods of
                            the common highway were beaten into frosty dust by the tread of
                            marshaled men; and the shrill shriek of the fife, and the hoarse boom
                            and jar, and the rattling patter of the drums stirred every breast with
                            something of that rapturous insanity of which true patriots and heroes
                            can alone be made.
                        But on that day, when Mary Alice Smith was to return, what was all the
                            gallant tumult of the town to us? I remember how we ran far up the
                            street to welcome herfor afar off we had recognized her elfish face and
                            eager eyes peering expectantly from behind the broad shoulders of a
                            handsome fellow mounted on a great high-stepping horse that neighed and
                            pranced excitedly as we came skurrying toward them.
                        "Whoo-ee!" she cried, in perfect ecstasy, 
                            as we paused in breathless admiration.
                            "Clearthetrackthere,oldfolksyoungfolks!forMaryAliceSmithandDavidMasonJeffriesiscometotown!"
                        O what a day that was! And how vain indeed would be the attempt to detail
                            here a tithe of its glory, or our happiness in having back with us our
                            dear little girl, and her hysterical delight in seeing us so warmly
                            welcome to the full love of our childish hearts the great, strong,
                            round-faced, simple-natured "DavidMasonJeffries!" Long and long ago we
                            had learned to love him as we loved the peasant hero of some fairy tale
                            of Christian Andersen's; but now that he was with us in most wholesome
                            and robust fealty, our very souls seemed scampering from our bodies to
                            run to him and be caught up and tossed and swung and dandled in his
                            gentle, giant arms.
                        All that long delicious morning we were with him. In his tender charge we
                            were permitted to go down among the tumult and the music of the streets,
                            his round, good-humored face and big, blue eyes lit with a luster like
                            our own. And happy little Mary Alice Smithhow proud she was of him! And
                            how closely and how tenderly, through all that  golden morning, did the strong brown hand clasp hers? A
                            hundred times at least, as we promenaded thus, she swung her head back
                            jauntily to whisper to us in that old mysterious way of hers that
                            "DavidMasonJeffriesandMaryAliceSmithknewsomethingthatwecouldn'tguess!"
                            But when he had returned us home, and after dinner had started down the
                            street alone, with little Mary Alice clapping her hands after him above
                            the gate and laughing in a strange new voice, and with the backs of her
                            little fluttering hands vainly striving to blot out the big tear-drops
                            that gathered in her eyes, we vaguely guessed the secret she and David
                            kept. That night at supper time we knew it fully. He had enlisted.
                        Among the list of "killed" at Rich Mountain, occurred the name of
                            "Jeffries, David M." We kept it from her while we could. At last she
                            knew.
                        "It don't seem like no year ago to me!" Over and over she had said these
                            words. The face was very pale and thin, and the eyes, so brightso
                            bright! The kindly hand that smoothed away the little sufferer's hair
                                 trembled and dropped tenderly again
                            upon the folded ones beneath the snowy spread.
                        "Git me out the picture again!"
                        The trembling hand lifted once more and searched beneath the pillow.
                        She drew the thin hands up, and, smiling, pressed the pictured face
                            against her lips, "DavidMasonJeffries," she
                            said"le'smeandyougoplayoutonthestairs!"
                        And ever in the empty home a voice goes moaning on and on, and, "Where is
                            Mary Alice Smith?" it cries, and "WhereisMaryAliceSmith?" and the still,
                            belated echo, through the high depths of the old hall overhead, answers
                            quaveringly back, "O,shehasgonehome!" But her voiceit is silent
                            evermore!
                        O "Where is Mary Alice Smith?" She taught us how to call her thusand now
                            she will not answer us! Have we no voice to reach her with? How sweet
                            and pure and glad they were, in those old days, as we recall the accents
                            ringing through the hallthe same we vainly cry to her. Her fancies were
                            so quainther ways so full of prankish mysteries! We laughed then; now,
                            upon our knees, we wring our lifted hands and gaze, through streaming
                            tears, high up the  stair she used to
                            climb in childish glee, to call and answer eerily. And now, no answer
                            anywhere!
                        How deft the little finger-tips in every task! The hands, how smooth and
                            delicate to lull and soothe! And the strange music of her lips! The very
                            crudeness of their speech made chaster yet the childish thought her
                            guileless utterance had caught from spirit-depths beyond our reach. And
                            so her homely name grew fair and sweet and beautiful to hear, blent with
                            the echoes pealing clear and vibrant up the winding stair,"Wherewhere is
                            Mary Alice Smith?" She taught us how to call her thusbut O she will not
                            answer us! We have no voice to reach her with.
                    
                
                
                
                    ECCENTRIC MR. CLARK.
                    
                    
                        THE BAN.
                        
                            I.
                            Strange dreams of what I used to be
                            And what I dreamed I would be, swim
                            Before my vision, faint and dim
                            As misty distances we see
                            In pictured scenes of fairy-lands;
                            And ever on, with empty hands,
                            And eyes that ever lie to me,
                            And smiles that no one understands,
                            I grope adown my destiny.
                        
                        
                            II.
                            Some say I waver when I walk
                            Along the crowded thoroughfares,
                            And some leer in my eyes, and talk
                            Of dullness, when I see in theirs
                            Like fishes' eyes, alive or dead
                            But surfaces of vacancy
                            Blank disks that never seem to see,
                            But glint and glow and glare instead.
                        
                        
                            III.
                            The ragged shawl I wear is wet
                            With driving, dripping rains, and yet
                            It seems a royal raiment, where,
                            Through twisted torrents of my hair,
                            
                            I see rare gems that gleam and shine
                            Like jewels in a stream of wine;
                            The gaping shoes that clothe my feet
                            Are golden sandals, and the shrine
                            Where courtiers grovel and repeat
                            Vain prayers, and where in joy thereat,
                            A fair Prince doffs his plumed hat,
                            And kneels, and names me all things sweet.
                        
                        
                            IV.
                            Sometimes the sun shines, and the lull
                            Of winter noon is like a tune
                            The stars might twinkle to the moon
                            If night were white and beautiful
                            For when the dangor of the town,
                            And strife of traffic softens down,
                            The wakeful hunger that I nurse,
                            In listening, forgets to curse,
                            UntilAh, joy! with drooping head
                            I drowse, and dream that I am dead
                            And buried safe beyond their eyes
                            Who either pity or despise.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        ECCENTRIC MR. CLARK.
                        ALL who knew Mr. Clark intimately, casually, or by
                            sight alone, smiled always, meeting him, and thought, "What an odd man
                            he is!" Not that there was anything extremely or ridiculously obtrusive
                            in Mr. Clark's peculiarities, either of feature, dress, or deportment,
                            by which a graded estimate of his really quaint character might be aptly
                            defined; but rather, perhaps, it was the curious combination of all
                            these things that had gained for Mr. Clark the transient celebrity of
                            being a very eccentric man.
                        And Mr. Clark, of all the odd inhabitants of the busy metropolis in which
                            he lived, seemed least conscious of the fact of his local prominence.
                            True it was, that when familiarly addressed as "Clark, old boy," by
                            sportive individuals he never recollected having seen before, he would
                            oftentimes, stare blankly in return, and with evident embarrassment; but
                            as these actions may have been attributable to weak eyes, or to the
                            confusion consequent  upon being publicly
                            recognized by the quondam associates of bacchanalian hours, the
                            suggestive facts only served to throw his eccentricities in new
                            relief.
                        And, in the minds of many, that Mr. Clark was somewhat given to
                            dissipation, there was but little doubtfor, although in no way, and at
                            no time, derelict in the rigid duties imposed upon him as an accountant
                            in a wholesale liquor house on South John street, a grand majority of
                            friends had long ago conceded that a certain puffiness of flesh, and a
                            soiled-like pallor of complexion, were in no wise the legitimate result
                            of over-application simply in the counting-room of the establishment in
                            which he found employment; but as to the complicity of Mr. Clark's
                            direct associates in this belief, it is only justice to the gentleman to
                            state that by them he was exonerated beyond all such suspicion, from the
                            gray-haired senior of the firm down to the pink-nosed porter of the
                            ware-rooms, who, upon every available occasion, would point out the
                            eccentric Mr. Clark as "the on'y man in the biznez' at never sunk a
                            'thief,' er drunk a drop o' goods o' any kind, under no
                            consideration!"
                        And Mr. Clark himself, when playfully approached upon the subject, would
                            quietly assert that never, under any circumstances, had  the taste of intoxicating liquors passed
                            his lips, though at such times it was a singularly noticeable fact that
                            Mr. Clark's complexion invariably grew more sultry than its wont, and
                            that his eyes, forever moist, grew dewier, and that his lips and tongue
                            would seem covertly entering upon some lush conspiracy, which in its
                            incipiency he would be forced to smother with his hastily-drawn
                            handkerchief. Then the eccentric Mr. Clark would laugh nervously, and,
                            pouncing on some subject so vividly unlike the one just previous as to
                            daze the listener, he would ripple ahead with a tide of eloquence that
                            positively overflowed and washed away all remembrance of the opening
                            topic.
                        In point of age Mr. Clark might have been thirty, thirty-five, or even
                            forty years, were one to venture an opinion solely guided by outward
                            appearances and under certain circumstances and surroundings. As, for
                            example, when, a dozen years ago, the writer of this sketch rode twenty
                            miles in a freight caboose, with Mr. Clark as the only other passenger,
                            he seemed in age at first not less than thirty-five; but upon opening a
                            conversation with him, in which he joined with wonderful vivacity, a
                            nearer view, and a prolonged and studious one as well, revealed the
                            rather curious  fact that, at the very
                            limit of all allowable supposition, his age could not possibly have
                            exceeded twenty-five. What it was in the man that struck me as eccentric
                            at that time I have never been wholly able to define, but I recall
                            accurately the most trivial occurrences of our meeting, and the very
                            subject-matter of our conversation. I even remember the very words in
                            which he declined a drink from my traveling flaskfor "It's a raw day," I
                            said, by way of gratuitous excuse for offering it. "Yes," he said,
                            smilingly motioning the temptation aside; "it is a raw day; but you're
                            rather young in years to be doctoring the weatherat least you'd better
                            change the treatmentthey'll all be raw days for you after awhile!" I
                            confess that I even felt an inward pity for the man as I laughingly
                            drained his health and returned the flask to my valise. But when I asked
                            him, ten minutes later, the nature of the business in which he was
                            engaged, and he handed me, in response and without comment, the card of
                            a wholesale liquor house, with his own name in crimson letters struck
                            diagonally across the surface, I winked naively to myself and thought
                            "Ah-ha!" And, as if reading my very musings, he said: "Why, certainly, I
                            carry a full line of samples; but, my dear  young friend, don't imagine for a minute that I refuse your brand on
                            that account. You can rest assured that I have nothing better in my
                            cases. Whisky is whisky wherever it is found, and there is no 'best'
                            whiskynot in all the world!"
                        Truly, I thought, this is an odd source for the emanation of temperance
                            sentimentsthen said aloud: "And yet you engage in a business you
                            dislike! Traffic in an article that you yourself condemn! Do I
                            understand you?"
                        "Might there not be such a thing," he said quietly, "as inheriting a
                            businessthe same as inheriting an appetite? However, one advances by
                            gradations. I shall sell no more. This is my last trip on the road in
                            that capacity. I am coming in now to take charge of the firm's books.
                            Would be glad to have you call on me any time you're in the city.
                            Good-bye." And, as he swung off the slowly-moving train, now entering
                            the city, and I stood watching him from the open door of the caboose as
                            he rapidly walked down a suburban street, I was positive his gait was
                            anything but steadythat the stepthe figurethe whole air of the man was
                            that of one then laboring under the effects of partial intoxication.
                        
                        I have always liked peculiar people; no matter where I met them, no
                            matter who they were, if once impressed with an eccentricity of
                            character which I have reason to believe purely unaffected, I never
                            quite forget the person, name or place of our first meeting, or where
                            the interesting party may be found again. And so it was in the customary
                            order of things that, during hasty visits to the city, I often called on
                            the eccentric Mr. Clark, and, as he had promised upon our first
                            acquaintance, he seemed always glad to see and welcome me in his new
                            office. The more I knew of him the more I liked him, but I think I never
                            fully understood him. No one seemed to know him quite so well as
                            that.
                        Once I had a little private talk regarding him with the senior of the
                            firm for which he worked. Mr. Clark, just prior to my call, had gone to
                            lunchwould be back in half an hour. Would I wait there in the office
                            until his return? Certainly. And the chatty senior entertained me:Queer
                            fellowMr. Clark! as his father was before him. Used to be a member of
                            the firmhis father was; in fact, founded the businessmade a fortune at
                            itfailed, for an unfortunate reason, and went up the flume. Paid every
                            dollar that he owed, however, sacrificing the very home that sheltered
                                 his wife and childrenbut never
                            rallied. He had quite a family then? Oh, yes; had a familynot a large
                            one, but a bright oneonly they all seemed more or less unfortunate. The
                            father was unfortunatevery, and died so, leaving his wife and two
                            boysthe older son much like the fathersplendid business capacities, but
                            lacked willcouldn't resist some thingseven weaker than the father in
                            that regard, and died at half his age. But the younger brotherour Mr.
                            Clarkremained, and he was sterling "straight goods" in all respects.
                            Lived with his motherwas her sole support. A proud woman, Mrs. Clarka
                            proud woman, with a broken spiritwith-drawn entirely from the world, and
                            had been for years and years. The Clarks, as had been mentioned, were
                            all peculiareven the younger Mr. Clark, our friend, I had doubt-less
                            noticed was an odd genius, but he had staminasomething solid about him,
                            for all his eccentricities, could be relied upon. Had been with the
                            house there since a boy of twelvetook him for the father's sake; had
                            never missed a day's time in any line of work that ever had been given
                            in his chargewas weakly-looking, too. Had worked his way from the cellar
                            upfrom the least pay to the highesthad saved enough to buy and  pay for a comfortable house for his
                            mother and himself, and had always maintained the expense of a
                            maid-servant for the mother. Yet, with all this burden on his shoulders,
                            the boy had worried through some way, with a jolly smile and a good word
                            for every one. "A boy, sir," the enthusiastic senior concluded, "A boy,
                            sir, that never was a boy, and never had a taste of genuine boyhood in
                            his lifeno more than he ever took a taste of whisky, and you couldn't
                            get that in him with a funnel!"
                        At this juncture Mr. Clark himself appeared, and in a particularly happy
                            frame of mind. For an hour the delighted senior and myself sat laughing
                            at the fellow's quaint conceits and witty sayings, the conversation at
                            last breaking up with an abrupt proposition from Mr. Clark that I remain
                            in the city over night and accompany him to the theater, an invitation I
                            rather eagerly accepted. Mr. Clark, thanking me, and pivoting himself
                            around on his high stool, with a mechanical "Good afternoon!" was at
                            once submerged in his books, while the senior, following me out and
                            stepping into a carriage that stood waiting for him at the curb, waived
                            me adieu, and was driven away. I turned my steps up street, but
                            remembering that my friend had fixed no 
                            place to meet me in the evening, I stepped back into the store-room and
                            again pushed open the glass-door of the office.
                        Mr. Clark still sat on the high stool at his desk, his back toward the
                            door, and his ledger spread out before him.
                        "Mr. Clark!" I called.
                        He made no answer.
                        "Mr. Clark!" I called again in an elevated key.
                        He did not stir.
                        I paused a moment, then went over to him, letting my hand drop lightly on
                            his arm.
                        Still no response. I only felt the shoulder heave, as with a long-drawn
                            quavering sigh, then heard the regular though labored breathing of a
                            weary man that slept.
                        I had not the heart to waken him; but, lifting the still moistened pen
                            from his unconscious fingers, I wrote where I might be found at eight
                            that evening, folded and addressed the note, and, laying it on the open
                            page before him, turned quietly away.
                        "Poor man!" I mused compassionately, with a touch of youthful sentiment
                            affecting me. "Poor man! Working himself into his very grave, and with
                            never a sign or murmur of complaintworn and weighed down with  the burden of his work, and yet with a
                            nobleness of spirit and resolve that still conceals behind glad smiles
                            and laughing words the cares that lie so heavily upon him!"
                        The long afternoon went by at last, and evening came; and, as promptly as
                            my note requested, the jovial Mr. Clark appeared, laughing heartily, as
                            we walked off down the street, at my explanation of the reason I had
                            written my desires instead of verbally addressing him; and laughing
                            still louder when I told him of my fears that he was overworking
                            himself.
                        "Oh, no, my friend," he answered gayly; "there's no occasion for anxiety
                            on that account.But the fact is, old man," he went on,
                            half-apologetically, "the fact is, I haven't been so overworked, of
                            late, as overwakeful. There's something in the night, I think, that does
                            it. Do you know that the night is a great mystery to mea great mystery!
                            And it seems to be growing on me all the time. There's the trouble. The
                            night to me is like some vast, incomprehensible being. When I write the
                            name 'night' I instinctively write it with a capital. And I like my
                            nights deep, and dark and swarthy, don't you know. Now some like clear
                            and starry nights, but they're too pale for metoo weak and fragile
                            altogather!  They're popular with the
                            masses, of course, these blue-eyed, golden-haired,
                            'moonlight-on-the-lake' nights; but, some-way, I don't 'stand in' with
                            them. My favorite night is the pronounced brunettethe darker the better.
                            To-night is one of my kind, and she's growing more and more like it all
                            the time. If it were not for depriving you of the theater, I'd rather
                            just drift off now in the deepening gloom till swallowed up in itlost
                            utterly. Come with me, anyhow!"
                        "Gladly," I answered, catching something of his own enthusiasm; "I myself
                            prefer it to the play."
                        "I heartily congratulate you on your taste," he said, diving violently
                            for my hand and wringing it. "Oh, it's going to be grimly glorious!a
                            depth of darkness one can wade out into, and kneed it in his hands like
                            dough!" And he laughed, himself, at this grotesque conceit.
                        And so we walkedfor hours. Our talkor, rather, my friend's talklulled and
                            soothed at last into a calmer flow, almost solemn in its tone, and yet
                            fretted with an occasional wildness of utterance and expression.
                        Half consciously I had been led by my companion, who for an hour had been
                            drawing closer to me as we walked. His arm, thrust  through my own, clung almost affectionately. We were now
                            in some strange suburb of the city, evidently, too, in a low quarter,
                            for from the windows of such business rooms and shops as bore any
                            evidence of respectability the lights had been turned out and the doors
                            locked for the night. Only a gruesome green light was blazing in a
                            little drug store just opposite, while at our left, as we turned the
                            corner, a tumble-down saloon sent out upon the night a mingled sound of
                            clicking billiard-balls, discordant voicesthe harsher raspings of a
                            violin, together with the sullen plunkings of a banjo.
                        "I must leave you here for a minute," said my friend, abruptly breaking a
                            long silence, and loosening my arm. "The druggist over there is a patron
                            of our house, and I am reminded of a little business I have with him. He
                            is about closing, too, and I'll see him now, as I may not be down this
                            way again soon. No; you wait here for meright here," and he playfully
                            but firmly pushed me back, ran across the street and entered the store.
                            Through the open door I saw him shake hands with the man that stood
                            behind the counter, and stand talking in the same position for some
                            minutesboth still clasping hands, as it seemed; but as I mechanically
                            bent with  closer scrutiny, the druggist
                            seemed to be examining the hand of Mr. Clark and working at it, as
                            though picking at a splinter in the palmI could not quite determine what
                            was being done, for a glass showcase blurred an otherwise clear view of
                            the arms of both from the elbows down. Then they came forward, Mr. Clark
                            arranging his cuffs, and the druggist wrapping up some minute article he
                            took from an upper showcase, and handing it to my friend, who placed it
                            in the pocket of his vest and turned away. At this moment my attention
                            was withdrawn by an extra tumult of jeers and harsh laughter in the
                            saloon, from the door of which, even as my friend turned from the door
                            opposite, a drunken woman reeled, and, staggering round the corner as my
                            friend came up, fell violently forward on the pavement, not ten steps in
                            our advance. Instinctively, we both sprang to her aid, and, bending over
                            the senseless figure, peered curiously in the bruised and bleeding
                            features. My friend was trembling with excitement. He clutched wildly at
                            the limp form, trying, but vainly, to lift the woman to her feet. "Why
                            don't you take hold of her?" he whispered hoarsely. "Help me with
                            herquick! quick! Lift her up!" I obeyed without a word,  though with a shudder of aversion as a
                            drop of hot blood stung me on the hand.
                        "Now draw her arm about your shoulderthis wayand hold it so! And now your
                            other arm around her waistquick, man, quick, as you yourself will want
                            God's arm about you when you fail! Now, come!" And with no other word we
                            hurried with our burden up the empty darkness of the street.
                        I was utterly bewildered with it all, but something kept me silent. And
                            so we hurried on, and on, and on, our course directed by my now wholly
                            reticent companion. Where he was goingwhat his purpose was, I could but
                            vaguely surmise. I only recognized that his intentions were humane,
                            which fact was emphasized by the extreme caution he took to avoid the
                            two or three late pedestrians that passed us on our way as we stood
                            crowded in concealmentonce behind a low shedonce in an entry way, and
                            once, at the distant rattle of a police whistle, we hurried through the
                            blackness of a narrow alley into the silent street beyond. And on up
                            this we passed, until at last we paused at the gateway of a cottage on
                            our left. On to the door of that we went, my friend first violently
                            jerking the bell, then opening the door with a night-key, and with me
                            lifting the still senseless woman  through
                            the hall into a dimly-lighted room upon the right, and laying her upon a
                            clean, white bed that glimmered in the corner. He reached and turned the
                            gas on in a flaring jet, and as he did so, "This is my home," he
                            whispered, "and this woman ismy mother!" He flung himself upon his knees
                            beside her, as he spoke. He laid his quivering lips against the white
                            hair and the ruddy wound upon the brow; then dappled with his kisses the
                            pale face, and stroked, and petted, and caressed the faded hands. "O,
                            God!" he moaned, "if I might only weep!"
                        The steps of some one coming down the stair aroused him. He stepped
                            quickly to the door, and threw it open. It was the woman servant. He
                            simply pointed to the form upon the bed.
                        "Oh, sir!" exclaimed the frightened woman, "what has happened? What has
                            happened to my poor, dear mistress?"
                        "Why did you let her leave the house?"
                        "She sent me away, sir. I never dreamed that she was going out again. She
                            told me she was very sleepy and wanted to retire, and I helped her to
                            undress before I went. But she ain't bad hurt, is she?" she continued,
                            stooping over the still figure and tenderly smoothing back the
                            disheveled hair. "It's  only the cheek
                            bruised and the forehead cut a littleit's the blood that makes it look
                            like a bad hurt. See, when I bathe it, it is not a bad hurt, sir. She's
                            just beenshe's just worn out, poor thingand she's asleepthat's all."
                        He made no answer to the woman's speech, but turned toward me. "Five
                            doors from here," he said, "and to your left, as you go out, you will
                            find the residence of Dr. Worrel. Go to him for me, and tell him he is
                            wanted here at once. Tell him my mother is much worse. He will
                            understand. I would go myself, but must see about arranging for your
                            comfort upon your return, for you will not leave me till broad
                            daylightyou must not!" I bowed in silent acceptance of his wishes, and
                            turned upon my errand.
                        Fortunately, the Doctor was at home, and returned at once with me to my
                            friend, where, after a careful examination of his patient, he assured
                            the anxious son that the wounds were only slight, and that her
                            unconscious condition was simply "the result of over-stimulation,
                            perhaps," as he delicately put it. She would doubtless waken in her
                            usual rational statean occurrence really more to be feared than desired,
                            since her peculiar sensitiveness might feel too keenly the unfortunate
                            happening.  "Anyway," he continued, "I
                            will call early in the morning, and, in the event of her awakening
                            before that time, I will leave a sedative with Mary, with directions she
                            will attend. She will remain here at her side. And as to yourself, Mr.
                            Clark," the Doctor went on, in an anxious tone, as he marked the haggard
                            face and hollow eyes, "I insist that you retire. You must rest,
                            sirworrying for the past week as you have been doing is telling on you
                            painfully. You need restand you must take it."
                        "And I will," said Mr. Clark, submissively. Stooping again, he clasped
                            the sleeping face between his hands and kissed it tenderly. "Good
                            night!" I heard him whisper"Good nightgood night!" He turned, and,
                            motioning for me to follow, opened the door"Doctor, good night! Good
                            night, Mary!"
                        He led the way to his own room up-stairs. "And now, my friend," he said,
                            as he waved me to an easy chair, "I have but two other favors to ask of
                            you: The first is, that you talk to me, or read to me, or tell me fairy
                            tales, or riddlesanything, so that you keep it up incessantly, and never
                            leave off till you find me fast asleep. Then, in the next room you will
                            find a comfortable bed. Leave me sleeping here and you sleep there. And
                            the second  favor," he continued, with a
                            slow smile and an affected air of great deliberation"Oh, well, I'll not
                            ask the second favor of you now. I'll keep it for you till to-morrow."
                            And as he turned laughingly away and paced three or four times across
                            the room, in his step, his gait, the general carriage of the figure, I
                            was curiously reminded of the time, long years before, that I had
                            watched him from the door of the caboose, as he walked up the suburban
                            street till the movement of the train had hidden him from view.
                        "Well, what will you do?" he asked, as he wheeled a cozy-cushioned lounge
                            close beside my chair, and, removing his coat, flung himself languidly
                            down. "Will you talk or read to me?"
                        "I will read," I said, as I picked up a book to begin my vigil.
                        "Hold just a minute then," he said, drawing a card and pencil from his
                            vest. "I may want to jot down a note or two. Now, go ahead."
                        I had been reading in a low voice steadily for perhaps an hour, my
                            companion never stirring from his first position, but although my eyes
                            were never lifted from the book, I knew by the occasional sound of his
                            pencil that he had not yet dropped asleep. And so, without  a pause, I read monotonously on. At last
                            he turned heavily. I paused. With his eyes closed he groped his hand
                            across my knees and grasped my own. "Go on with the reading," he said
                            drowsily"Guess I'm going to sleep nowbut you go right on with the story
                            . Good night!" His hand fumbled lingeringly a moment, then was withdrawn
                            and folded with the other on his breast.
                        I read on in a lower tone an hour longer, then paused again to look at my
                            companion. He was sleeping heavily, and although the features in their
                            repose appeared unusually pale, a wholesome perspiration, as it seemed,
                            pervaded all the face, while the breathing though labored was regular. I
                            bent above him to lower the pillow for his head, and the movement half
                            aroused him, as I thought at first, for he muttered something as though
                            impatiently, but listening to catch his mutterings, I knew that he was
                            dreaming. "It's what killed father," I heard him say. "And it's what
                            killed Tom," he went on in a smothered voice; "killed bothkilled both!
                            It shan't kill me; I swore it. I could bottle it case after case and
                            never touch a drop. If you never take the first drink, you'll never want
                            it. Mother taught me that. What made her ever take the first? Mother!
                            Mother!  When I get to be a man, I'll buy
                            her all the fine things she used to have when father was alive. Maybe I
                            can buy back the old home, with the roses up the walk and the sunshine
                            slanting in the hall." And so the sleeper murmured on. Sometimes the
                            voice was thick and discordant, sometimes low an-
                            clear and tuneful as a child's. "Never touch whisky!" he went on almost
                            harshly. "Nevernever! never! Drop in the street first. I did. The doctor
                            will come then, and he knows what you want. Not whisky. Medicine; the
                            kind that makes you warm againmakes you want to live; but don't ever
                            dare touch whisky. Let other people drink it if they want it. Sell it to
                            them; they'll get it anyhow; but don't you touch it! It killed your
                            father, it killed Tom, andoh!Mother! Mother! Mother!" Tears actually
                            teemed from underneath the sleeper's lids, and glittered down the pallid
                            and distorted features. "There's a medicine that's good for you when you
                            want whisky," he went on. "When you are weak, and everybody else is
                            strongand always when the flag-stones give way beneath your feet, and
                            the long street undulates and wavers as you walk; why, that's a sign for
                            you to take that medicineand take it quick! Oh, it will warm you till
                            the little pale blue streaks  in your
                            white hands will bulge out again with tingling blood, and it will start
                            up from its stagnant pools and leap from vein to vein till it reaches
                            your being's furthest height and droops and falls and folds down over
                            icy brow and face like a soft veil moistened with pure warmth. Ah! it is
                            so deliriously sweet and restful!"
                        I heard a moaning in the room below, and then steps on the stairs, and a
                            tapping at the door. It was Mary. Mrs. Clark had awakened and was crying
                            for her son. "But we must not waken him." I said. "Give Mrs. Clark the
                            medicine the doctor left for herthat will quiet her."
                        But she won't take it, sir. She won't do anything at all for meand if Mr.
                            Clark could only come to her, for just a minute, she would"
                        The woman's speech was broken by a shrill cry in the hall, and then the
                            thud of naked feet on the stairway. "I want my boy my boy!" wailed the
                            hysterical woman from without.
                        "Go to your mistressquick," I said, sternly, pushing the woman from the
                            room. "Take her back; I will come down to your assistance in a moment."
                            Then I turned hastily to see if the sleeper had been disturbed  by the woman's cries, but all was
                            peaceful with him yet, and so, throwing a coverlet over him, I drew the
                            door to silently and went below.
                        I found the wretched mother in an almost frenzied state, and gathering in
                            a violence that alarmed me to that extent I thought it best to again
                            summon the physician; and bidding the servant not to leave her for an
                            instant, I hurried for the help so badly needed. This time the doctor
                            was long delayed, although he joined me with all possible haste, and
                            with all speed accompanied me back to the unhappy home. Entering the
                            door our ears were greeted with a shriek that came piercing down the
                            hall till the very echoes shuddered as with fear. It was the patient's
                            voice shrilling from the sleeper's room up stairs. "O, God! My boy! My
                            boy! I want my boy, and he will not waken for me!" An instant later we
                            were both upon the scene.
                        The woman in her frenzy had broken from the servant to find her son, and
                            she had found him.
                        She had wound her arms about him, and had dragged his still sleeping form
                            upon the floor. He would not waken, even though she gripped him to her
                            heart and shrieked her very soul out in his ears. He would not waken.
                                 The face, though whiter than her own,
                            betokened only utter rest and peace. We drew her, limp and voiceless,
                            from his side. "We are too late," the doctor whispered, lifting with his
                            finger one of the closed lids, and letting it drop to again"See here!"
                            He had been feeling at the wrist; and, as he spoke, he slipped the
                            sleeve up, baring the sleeper's arm. From wrist to elbow it was livid
                            purple, and pitted and scarred with minute woundssome scarcely sealed
                            with clotted blood.
                        "In heaven's name, what does it all mean?" I asked.
                        "Morphine," said the doctor, "and the hypodermic. And here," he
                            explained, lifting the other hand, "here is a folded card with your name
                            at the top."
                        I snatched it from him, and I read, written in faint but rounded
                            characters:
                        "I like to hear your voice. It sounds kind. It is like a far-off tune. To
                            drop asleep, though, as I am doing now, is sweeter musicbut read on. I
                            have taken something to make me sleep, and by mistake I have taken too
                            much; but you will read right on. Now, mind you, this is not suicide, as
                            God listens to the whisper of this pencil as I write! I did it by
                            mistake. For years and years I have  taken
                            the same thing. This time I took too muchmuch more than I meant tobut I
                            am glad. This is the second favor I would ask: Go to my employers
                            to-morrow, show them this handwriting, and say I know for my sake they
                            will take charge of my affairs and administer all my estate in the best
                            way suited to my mother's needs. Good-bye, my friendI can only say 'good
                            night' to you when I shall take your hand an instant later and turn away
                            forever."
                        Through tears I read it all, and ending with his name in full, I turned
                            and looked down on the face of this man that I had learned to love, and
                            the full measure of his needed rest was with him; and the rainy day that
                            glowered and drabbled at the eastern windows of the room was as drearily
                            stared back at by a hopeless woman's dull, demented eyes.
                    
                
                
                
                    "THE BOY FROM ZEENY."
                    
                    
                        THE BROOK.
                        
                            
                                Little brook! Little brook!
                            
                            
                                You have such a happy look
                            
                            
                                Such a very merry manner, as you swerve and curve and
                                    crook
                            
                            
                                And your ripples, one and one,
                            
                            
                                Reach each other's hands and run
                            
                            
                                Like laughing little children in the sun!
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                Little brook, sing to me:
                            
                            
                                Sing about a bumblebee
                            
                            
                                That tumbled from a lily-bell and grumbled
                                    mumblingly,
                            
                            
                                Because he wet the film
                            
                            
                                Of his wings, and had to swim,
                            
                            
                                While the water-bugs raced round and laughed at
                                    him!
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                Little brooksing a song
                            
                            
                                Of a leaf that sailed along
                            
                            
                                Down the golden-braided center of your current swift
                                    and strong,
                            
                            
                                And a dragonfly that lit
                            
                            
                                On the tilting rim of it,
                            
                            
                                And rode away and wasn't scared a bit.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                And singhow oft in glee
                            
                            
                                Came a truant boy like me,
                            
                            
                                Who loved to lean and listen to your lilting
                                    melody,
                            
                            
                                Till the gurgle and refrain
                            
                            
                                Of your music in his brain
                            
                            
                                Wrought a happiness as keen to him as pain.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                Little brooklaugh and leap!
                            
                            
                                Do not let the dreamer weep:
                            
                            
                                Sing him all the songs of summer till he sink in
                                    softest sleep;
                            
                            
                                And then sing soft and low
                            
                            
                                Through his dreams of long ago
                            
                            
                                Sing back to him the rest he used to know!
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        "THE BOY FROM ZEENY."
                        HIS advent in our little country town was at once
                            abrupt and novel. Why he came, when he came, or how he came, we boys
                            never knew. My first remembrance of him is of his sudden appearance in
                            the midst of a game of "Antn'y-over," in which a dozen boys beside
                            myself were most enthusiastically engaged. The scene of the exciting
                            contest was the center of the main street of the town, the elevation
                            over which we tossed the ball being the skeleton remains of a grand
                            triumphal arch, left as a sort of cadaverous reminder of some recent
                            political demonstration. Although I recall the boy's external appearance
                            upon that occasion with some vagueness, I vividly remember that his
                            trousers were much too large and long, and that his heavy, flapping coat
                            was buttonless, and very badly worn and damaged at the sleeves and
                            elbowsI remember, too, with even more distinctness, the hat he wore. It
                            was a high, silk, bell-crowned hata man's hat and a veritable "plug"  not a new and shiny "plug," by any means,
                            but still of dignity and gloss enough to furnish a noticeable contrast
                            to the other appertainments of its wearer's wardrobe. In fact, it was
                            through this latter article of dress that the general attention of the
                            crowd came at last to be particularly drawn to its unfortunate
                            possessor, who, evidently directed by an old-time instinct, had
                            mechanically thrust the inverted castor under a falling ball, and the
                            ball, being made of yarn wrapped tightly over a green walnut, and
                            dropping from an uncommon height, had gone through the hat like a round
                            shot.
                        Naturally enough much merriment was occasioned by the singular mishap,
                            and the victim of the odd occurrence seemed himself inclined to join in
                            the boisterous laughter, and make the most of his ridiculous misfortune.
                            He pulled the hat back over his tousled head, and with the flapping
                            crown of it still clinging by one frayed hinge, he capered into a
                            grotesquely-executed jig that made the clamorous crowd about him howl
                            again.
                        "Wo! what a hat!" cried Billy Kinzey, derisively, and with a palpably
                            rancorous twinge of envy in his heartfor Billy was the bad boy of our
                            town, and would doubtless have enjoyed the strange boy's sudden
                            notoriety in  thus being able to convert
                            disaster into positive fun. "Wo! what a hat!" reiterated Billy, making a
                            feint to knock it from the boy's head as the still capering figure
                            pirouetted past him. The boy caught the motion and whirled suddenly in a
                            backward course and danced past his reviler again, this time much nearer
                            than before. "Better try it," he said, in a low, half-laughing tone that
                            no one heard but Billy and myself. He was out of range in an instant,
                            still laughing as he went.
                        "Dern him!" said Billy, with stifling anger, clutching his fist and
                            leaving one knuckle protruding in a very wicked-looking manner. "Dern
                            him! He better not sass me! He's afeard to come past here agin and say
                            that! I'll knock his dern ole 'stove-pipe' in the middle o' nex'
                            week!"
                        "You will, hey?" queried a revolving voice, as the boy twirled past
                            againthis time so near that Billy felt his taunting breath blown in his
                            face.
                        "Yes, I will, hey!" said Billy, viciously; and with a side-sweeping,
                            flat-handed lick that sounded like striking a rusty sheet of tin, the
                            crownless "plug" went spinning into the gutter, while, as suddenly, the
                            assaulted little stranger, with a peculiarly pallid smile  about his lips, and an electric glitter
                            in his eye, adroitly flung his left hand forward, smiting his insulter
                            such a blow n the region of the brow that the unguarded Billy went
                            tumbling backward, his plucky assailant prancing wildly around his
                            prostrate form.
                        "O! come and see me!" snarled the strange boy, in a contemptuous tone,
                            cocking his fists up in a scientific manner, and dropping into a
                            stoop-shouldered swagger that would have driven envy into the heart of a
                            bullying hackdriver. "Git the bloke on his pins!" he sneered, turning to
                            the crowd. "Spose I'm goin' to hit a man w'en he's down?"
                        But his antagonist needed no such assistance. Stung with his unlooked-for
                            downfall, bleeding from the first blow ever given him by mortal boy, and
                            goaded to absolute frenzy by the taunts of his swaggering enemy, Billy
                            sprang to his feet, and a moment later had succeeded in closing with the
                            boy in a rough-and-tumble fight, in which his adversary was at
                            disadvantage, being considerably less in size, hampered, too, with his
                            loose, unbuttoned coat and baggy trousers. But, for all, he did some
                            very efficient work in the way of a deft and telling blow or two upon
                            the nose of his overpowering foe, who sat astride of  his wriggling body, but wholly unable to
                            get in a lick.
                        "Dern you!" said Billy, with his hand gripping the boy's throat, "holler
                            'nough!"
                        "Holler nothin'!" gurgled the boy, with his eyes fairly starting from his
                            head.
                        "O, let him up, Billy," called a compassionate voice from the excited
                            crowd.
                        "Holler 'nough and I will," said Billy, in a tragic whisper in the boy's
                            ear. "Dern ye! holler 'calf-rope!'"
                        The boy only shook his head trembled convulsivelylet fall his eyelids,
                            and lay limp and, to all appearances, unconscious.
                        The startled Billy loosed his holdrose half-way to his feetthen fiercely
                            pounced again at his rival.
                        But it was too late. The ruse had succeeded, and the boy was once more on
                            his feet.
                        "You fight like a dog!" said the strange boy in a tone of infinite
                            contempt"and you air a dog! Put up your props like a man and come at me,
                            and I'll meller your head till your mother won't know you! Come on! I
                            dare you!"
                        This time, as Billy started forward at the challenge, I regret to say
                            that in his passion he snatched up from the street a broken buggyspoke,
                            before which war-like weapon the  strange
                            boy was forced to warily retreat. Step by step he gave back, and step by
                            step his threatening foe advanced. I think, perhaps, part of the strange
                            boy's purpose in thus retreating was to arm himself with one of the
                            ax-handles that protruded from a churn standing in front of a grocery,
                            toward which he slowly backed across the sidewalk. However that may be,
                            it is evident he took no note of an open cellar-way that lay behind him,
                            over the brink of which he deliberately backed, throwing up his hands as
                            he disappeared.
                        We heard a heavy fall, but heard no cry. Some loungers in the grocery,
                            attracted by the clamor of the throng without, came to the door
                            inquiringly; one man, learning what had happened, peered down the
                            stairway of the cellar, and called to ask the boy if he was hurt, which
                            query was answered an instant later by the appearance of the boy
                            himself, his face far whiter than his shirt, and his lips trembling, but
                            his teeth clenched.
                        "Guess I broke my arm agin," he said briefly, as the man leaned and
                            helped him up the steps, the boy sweeping his keen eyes searchingly over
                            the faces of the crowd. "It's the right arm, though," he continued,
                            glancing at the injured member dangling helplessly at his side" This
                            un's all right yet!" and  as he spoke he
                            jerked from the man's assistance, wheeled round, and an instant later,
                            as a buggy-spoke went hurling through the air, he slapped the bewildered
                            face of Billy with his open hand. "Damn coward!" he said.
                        Then the man caught him, and drew him back, and the crowd closed in
                            between the combatants, following, as the boy with the broken arm was
                            hurried down street to the doctor's office, where the door was
                            immediately closed on the rabble and all the mystery withinnot an utter
                            mystery, either, for three or four enterprising and sagacious boys
                            slipped off from the crowd that thronged in front, and, climbing by a
                            roundabout way, and over a high board fence into the back yard, secretly
                            posted themselves at the blinded window in the rear of the little
                            one-roomed office and breathlessly awaited advices from within.
                        "They got him laid out on the settee," whispered a venturous boy who had
                            leant a board against the window-sill and climbed into a position
                            commanding the enviable advantage of a broken window-pane. "I can see
                            him through a hole in the curtain. Keep still!"
                        "They got his coat off, and his sleeve rolled up." whispered the boy, in
                            continuation  "and the doctor's a-givin'
                            him some medicine in a tumbler. Now he's a-pullin' his arm. Gee-mun-nee!
                            I can hear the bones crunch!"
                        "Haint he a-cryin'?" queried a milk-faced boy, with very large blue eyes
                            and fine white hair, and a grieved expression as he spoke. "Haint he
                            a-cryin' ?"
                        "Well he haint! " said the boy in the window, with unconscious
                            admiration. "Listen!"
                        "I heerd him thist tell 'em 'at it wusn't the first time his arm was
                            broke. Now keep still!" and the boy in the window again bent his ear to
                            the broken pane.
                        "He says both his arms's ben broke," continued the boy in the window"says
                            this un 'ats broke now's ben broke two times 'fore this time."
                        "Dog-gone! haint he a funny feller!" said the milk-faced boy, with his
                            big eyes lifted wistfully to the boy in the window.
                        "He says onc't his pap broke his arm w'en he was whippin' him," whispered
                            the boy in the window.
                        "But his pa's a wicked man!" said the milk-faced boy, in a dreamy,
                            speculative way " 'Spect he's a drunkard, er somepin!"
                        "Keep still!" said the boy at the window; "they're tryin' to git him to
                            tell his pap's name and his, and he won't do it, 'cause he  says his pap comes and steals him ever'
                            time he finds out where he is."
                        The milk-faced boy drew a long, quavering breath and gazed suspiciously
                            round the high board fence of the enclosure.
                        "He says his pap used to keep a libertystable in Zeenyin Ohio som'ersbut
                            he daresn't stay round there no more, 'cause he broke up there, and had
                            to skedaddle er they'd clean him out. He says he haint got no mother,
                            ner no brothers, ner no sisters, ner no nothin'on'y," the boy in the
                            window added, with a very dry and painful swallow, "he says he haint got
                            nothin' on'y thist the clothes on his back!"
                        "Yes, and I bet," broke in the milk-faced boy, abruptly, with his thin
                            lips compressed, and his big eyes fixed on space, "Yes, and I bet he can
                            lick Bill Kinzey, ef his arm is broke!"
                        At this juncture some one inside coming to raise the window, the boy at
                            the broken pane leaped to the ground, and, flocking at his heels, his
                            frightened comrades bobbed one by one over the horizon of the high
                            fence, and were gone in an instant.
                        So it was that the hero of this sketch came to be known as "The Boy from
                            Zeeny."
                        The Boy from Zeeny, though evidently predisposed  to novel and disastrous happenings, for once, at least,
                            had come upon a streak of better fortunefor the doctor, it appeared, had
                            some way taken a fancy to him, and had offered him an asylum at his own
                            home and hearththe compensation stipulated, and suggested by the boy
                            himself, being a conscientious and efficient service in the doctor's
                            stable. Even with his broken arm splinted and bandaged, and supported in
                            a sling. The Boy from Zeeny could be daily seen loping the doctor's
                            spirited horse up the back alley from the stable to the office, with the
                            utter confidence and careless grace of a Bedouin. When, at last, the
                            injured arm was wholly well again, the daring feats of horsemanship of
                            which the boy was capable were listened to with incredulity by the
                            "good" boys of the village school, who never played "hookey" on long
                            summer afternoons, and, in consequence, never had a chance of witnessing
                            The Boy from Zeeny loping up to the "swimmin'-hole," a mile from town,
                            barebacked, with nothing but a halter, and his face turned toward the
                            horse's tail. In fact, The Boy from Zeeny displayed such a versatility
                            of accomplishments, and those, too, of a character but faintly
                            represented in the average boy of the country town, that, for all the
                            admiration their  possessor evoked, an
                            equal envy was aroused in many a youthful breast.
                        "The boys in this town's down on you," said a cross-eyed, freckle-faced
                            boy, one day, to The Boy from Zeeny.
                        The Boy from Zeeny was sitting in the alley window of the hay-loft of the
                            doctor's stable, and the cross-eyed boy had paused below, and with his
                            noward looking eyes upturned, stood waiting the effect of this
                            intelligence.
                        "What do I care for the boys in this town?" said The Boy from Zeeny.
                        "The boys in this town," repeated the cross-eyed boy, with a slow,
                            prophetic flourish of his head"The boys in this town says 'cause you
                            come from Zeeny and blacked Bill Kinzey's eye, 'at you think you're
                            goin' to run things round here! And you'll find out you ain't the bosst
                            o' this town!" and the cross-eyed boy shook his head again with dire
                                foreb-ding.
                        
                        "Look here, Cocky!" said The Boy from Zeeny, trying to focus a direct
                            gaze on the boy's delusive eyes, "W'y don't you talk straight out from
                            the shoulder? I reckon 'the boys in this town,' as you call 'em, didn't
                            send you around here to tell me w'at they was goin' to do! But ef you
                            want to take it up for 'em, and got any sand to back you, jest say it,
                            and  I'll come down there and knock them
                            dern twisted eyes o' yourn straight agin!"
                        "Yes; you will!" muttered the cross-eyed boy, with dubious articulation,
                            glancing uneasily up the alley.
                        "What?" growled The Boy from Zeeny, thrusting one dangling leg further
                            out the window, supporting his weight by the palms of his hands, and
                            poised as though about to spring"What 'id you say?"
                        "Didn't say nothin'," said the cross-eyed boy, feebly; and then, as a
                            sudden and most bewildering smile lit up his defective eyes, he
                            exclaimed: "O! I tell you what le's do! Le's me and you git up a show in
                            your stable, and don't let none o' the other boys be in it! I can turn a
                            hand-spring like you, and purt' nigh walk on my hands; and you can
                            p'form on the slack-ropeand spraddle out like the 'Injarubber man'and
                            hold a pitchfork on your chinand stand up on a horse 'ithout
                            a-holdin'and andO! ever'thing!" And as the cross-eyed boy breathlessly
                            concluded this list of strong attractions, he had The Boy from Zeeny so
                            thoroughly inoculated with the enterprise that he at once closed with
                            the proposition, and the preparations and the practice for the show were
                            at once inaugurated.
                        Three hours later, an extremely cross-eyed 
                            boy, with the freckles of his face thrown into vivid relief by an
                            intense pallor, rushed pantingly into the doctor's office, with the
                            fateful intelligence that The Boy from Zeeny had "fell and broke his arm
                            agin." And this time, as it seemed, the hapless boy had surpassed the
                            seriousness of all former fractures, this last, being of a compound
                            nature, and very painful in the setting, and tedious in recovery; the
                            recovery, too, being anything but perfect, since it left the movement of
                            the elbow somewhat restricted, and threw the little fellow's arm in an
                            unnatural position, with the palm of the hand turned forward as he
                            walked. But for all, the use of it was, to all appearances, but little
                            impaired.
                        Doubtless it was through such interlude from rough service as these
                            accidents afforded that The Boy from Zeeny had acquired the meager
                            education he possessed. The doctor's wife, who had from the first been
                            kind to him, grew to like him very much. Through her gentle and
                            considerate interest he was stimulated to study by the occasional
                            present of a simple volume. Oftentimes the good woman would devote an
                            hour to his instruction in the mysteries of the book's orthography and
                            rhetoric.
                        Nor was The Boy from Zeeny a dull pupil; 
                            neither was he an ungrateful one. He was quick to learn, and never
                            prouder than when a mastered lesson gained for him the approbation of
                            his patient instructor.
                        The history of The Boy from Zeeny, such as had been gathered by the
                            doctor and his wife, was corroborative in outline with the brief hint of
                            it as communicated to the curious listeners at the rear window of the
                            doctor's office on the memorable day of the boy's first appearance in
                            the town. He was without family, save a harsh, unfeeling father, who,
                            from every evidence, must have neglected and abused the child most
                            shamefully, the circumstantial proof of this fact being evidenced in the
                            boy's frank acknowledgment that he had repeatedly "run away" from him,
                            and his still firm resolve to keep his name a secret, lest he might
                            thereby be traced to his present security, and fall once more into the
                            hands of his unnatural parent.
                        Certain it was that the interest of all who knew his story was in hearty
                            sympathy with the lad, and when one morning it was rumored that The Boy
                            from Zeeny had mysteriously disappeared, and the rumor rapidly developed
                            into an unquestionable fact, there was a universal sense of regret in
                            the little town, which in turn resolved itself into positive  indignation when it was learned from the
                            doctor that an explanation, printed in red keel on the back of a
                            fragmental bit of circus-poster, had been found folded and tucked away
                            in the buckle-straps of his horse's bridle. The somewhat remarkable
                            communication, in sprawling capitals, ran thus:
                        "PAPS GOT ME AGIN. I HAF TO GO. DAM
                            HIM. DOC TEL HER TO KEEP MY BOOCKS. GOOD BY. I FED OLE CHARLY. I FED HIM OTES
                            AND HA AN CORN. HE WONT NEED NO MORE FER A WEAK. AN BRAND TO. DOC TEL HER GOOD
                            BY."
                        It was a curious bit of compositionuncouth, assuredly, and marred, maybe,
                            with an unpardonable profanitybut it served. In the silence and gloom of
                            the old stable, the doctor's fingers trembled as he read, and the good
                            wife's eyes, peering anxiously above his heaving shoulder, filled and
                            overflowed with tears.
                        I wish that it were in the veracious sequence of this simple history to
                            give this way-ward boy back to the hearts that loved him, and that still
                            in memory enshrine him with affectionate regard; but the hapless ladthe
                            little ragged twelve-year-old that wandered  out of nowhere into town, and wandered into nowhere out againnever
                            returned. Yet we who knew him in those old dayswe who were children with
                            him, and, in spite of boyish jealousies and petty bickerings, admired
                            the gallant spirit of the lad, are continually meeting with reminders of
                            himthe last instance of which, in my own experience, I can not here
                            refrain from offering:
                        For years I have been a wanderer from the dear old town of my nativity,
                            but through all my wanderings a gracious fate has always kept me
                            somewheres in its pleasant neighborhood, and, in consequence, I often
                            pay brief visits to the scenes of my long-vanished boyhood. It was
                            during such a visit, but a few short years ago, that remembrances of my
                            lost youth were most forcibly recalled by the progress of the county
                            fair, which institution I was permitted to attend through the kindness
                            of an old chum who drove me over in his buggy.
                        Although it was not the day for racing, we found the track surrounded by
                            a dense crowd of clamorous and applausive people.
                        "What does it mean?" I asked my friend, as he guided his horse in and out
                            among the trees toward the edge of the enclosure.
                        "It's Professor Andrus, I suspect," he answered,  rising in the buggy as he spoke, and peering eagerly above
                            the heads of the surging multitude.
                        "And who's Professor Andrus?" I asked, striking a match against the tire
                            of the now stationary buggy-wheel, and lighting the stump of my
                            cigar.
                        "Why, haven't you heard of the famous Professor?" he answered,
                            laughinglyimmediately adding in a serious tone: "Professor Andrus is the
                            famous 'horse-tamer' who has been driving the country absolutely wild
                            here for two or three days. Stand up here where you can see!" he went
                            on, excitedly,
                        "Yonder he comes! Isn't that splendid?"
                        And it was.
                        Across the sea of heads, and facing toward us down the track, I caught
                            sight of a glossy span of horses that in their perfect beauty of
                            symmetry, high heads and tossing manes, looked as though they were just
                            prancing out of some Arabian dream. The animals seemed nude of rein or
                            harness, save but a jeweled strap that crossed the breast of each,
                            together with a slender trace at either side connecting with a jaunty
                            little phaeton whose glittering wheels slivered the sunshine into
                            splinters as they spun. Upon the narrow seat of the airy vehicle sat the
                            driver. No lines were wound  about his
                            handsno shout or lash to goad the horses to their telling speed. They
                            were simply directed and controlled by the graceful motions of a long
                            and slender whip which waved slowly to and fro above their heads. The
                            great crowd cheered the master as he came. He arose deliberately, took
                            off his hat and bowed. The applause was deafening. Still standing, he
                            whizzed past us and was gone. But something in the manner of the
                            handsome fellow struck me with a strange sense of familiarity. Was it
                            the utter disregard of fear that I saw within his face? Was it the
                            keenness of the eye, and the perfect self-possession of the man? Or was
                            itwas it the peculiar way in which the right arm had dropped to his side
                            after his salute to us while curving past us, and did I fancy, for that
                            reason, that the palm of his hand turned forward as he stood?
                        "Clear the track, there!" came a far voice across the ring. "Don't cross
                            there, in God's name! Drive back!"
                        The warning evidently came too late. There was an instant's breathless
                            silence, then a faraway, pent-sounding clash, then utter havoc in the
                            crowd. The ropes about the ring were broken over, and a tumultuous tide
                            of people  poured across the ring, myself
                            borne on the very foremost wave.
                        "Just the buggy smashed, that's all," cried a voice. "The hosses haint
                            hurtner the man."
                        The man referred to was the Professor. I caught a glimpse of him as he
                            rose from the grassy bank where he had been flung. He was very pale, but
                            calm. An uncouth man brought him his silk hat from where it had rolled
                            in the dust.
                        "Wish you'd just take this handkerchief and brush it off," said the
                            Professor; "I guess I've broke my arm."
                        It was The Boy from Zeeny.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE OLD MAN.
                    
                    
                        THE ORCHARD LANDS OF LONG AGO.
                        
                            
                                The orchard lands of Long Ago!
                            
                            
                                O drowsy winds, awake, and blow
                            
                            
                                The snowy blossoms back to me,
                            
                            
                                And all the buds that used to be!
                            
                            
                                Blow back along the grassy ways
                            
                            
                                Of truant feet, and lift the haze
                            
                            
                                Of happy summer from the trees
                            
                            
                                That trail their tresses in the seas
                            
                            
                                Of grain that float and overflow
                            
                            
                                The orchard lands of Long Ago!
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                Blow back the melody that slips
                            
                            
                                In lazy laughter from the lips
                            
                            
                                That marvel much if any kiss
                            
                            
                                Is sweeter than the apple's is.
                            
                            
                                Blow back the twitter of the birds
                            
                            
                                The lisp, the titter, and the words
                            
                            
                                Of merriment that found the shine
                            
                            
                                Of summertime a glorious wine
                            
                            
                                That drenched the leaves that loved it so,
                            
                            
                                In orchard lands of Lang Ago!
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                O memory! alight and sing
                            
                            
                                Where rosy-bellied pippins cling,
                            
                            
                                And golden russets glint and gleam,
                            
                            
                                As, in the old Arabian dream,
                            
                            
                                The fruits of that enchanted tree
                            
                            
                                The glad Aladdin robbed for me!
                            
                            
                                And, drowsy winds, awake and fan
                            
                            
                                My blood as when it over-ran
                            
                            
                                A heart, ripe as the apples grow
                            
                            
                                In orchard lands of Lone Ago!
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE OLD MAN.
                        [Response made to the sentiment, "The Old Man," at the
                            annual dinner of the Indianapolis Literary Club.]
                        
                            
                                "'You are old, Father William,' the young man said,
                                'And your hair has become very white,
                                And yet you incessantly stand on your head
                                Do you think, at your age, it is right?"
                            
                        
                        THE Old Man never grows so old as to become either
                            stale, juiceless or unpalatable. The older he grows, the mellower and
                            riper he becomes. His eyes may fail him, his step falter and his
                            big-mouthed shoes "A world too wide for his shrunk shanks"may cluck and
                            shuffle as he walks; his rheumatics may make great knuckles of his
                            knees, the rusty hinges of his vertebrae may refuse to cunningly
                            articulate, but all the same the "backbone" of the old man has been
                            time-seasoned, tried and tested, and no deerskin vest was ever buttoned
                            round a tougher! Look at the eccentric kinks and curvings of itits
                            abrupt depression at the base, and its rounded bulging at the shoulders;
                            but don't  laugh at the smart young man
                            who airily observes how full-chested the old man would be if his head
                            were only turned around, and don't kill the young man, either, until you
                            take him out some place and tell him that the old man got himself warped
                            up in that shape along about the times when everybody had to hump
                            himself. Try to bring before the young man's defective mental vision a
                            dissolving view of a "good old-fashioned barn-raisin'"and the old man
                            doing all the "raisin'" himselfand "grubbin'," and burnin' logs and
                            "underbrush," and "dreenin'" at the same time, and trying to coax
                            something besides calamus to grow in the little spongy tract of
                            swamp-land that he could stand in the middle of, and "wobble" and shake
                            the whole farm. Or, if you can't recall the many salient features of the
                            minor disadvantages under which the old man used to labor, your pliant
                            limbs may soon overtake him, and he will smilingly tell you of trials
                            and privations of the early days, until your anxiety about the young man
                            just naturally stagnates, and dries up, and evaporates, and blows
                            away.
                        In this little side-show of existence the old man is always worth the
                            full price of admission. He is not only the greatest living curiosity on
                            exhibition, but the object of the most 
                            genial solicitude and interest to the serious observer. It is even good
                            to look upon his vast fund of afflictions, finding prominent above them
                            all that wholesome patience that surpasseth understanding. To
                            compassionately dwell upon his prodigality of aches and ailments, and
                            yet, by his pride in their wholesale possession, and his thorough
                            resignation to the inevitable, to be continually rebuked, and an part
                            made envious of the old man's-right-of-title situation. Nature, after
                            all, is kinder than unkind to him, and always has a compensation and a
                            soothing balm for every blow that age may deal him. And in the fading
                            embers of the old man's eyes there are, at times, swift flashes and
                            rekindlings of the smiles of youth, and the old artlessness about the
                            wrinkled face that dwelt there when his cheeks were like the pippins,
                            and his
                        
                            "red lips, redder still,
                            Kissed by strawberries on the hill."
                        
                        And thus it is the children are intuitively drawn toward him, and young,
                            pure-faced mothers are forever hovering about him, with just such
                            humorings and kindly ministrations as they bestow upon the little
                            emperor of the household realm, strapped in his high chair at the dinner
                            table, crying amen in the midst of 
                            "grace," and ignoring the "substantials" o- the
                            groaning board, and at once insisting upon a square deal of the more
                            "temporal blessings" of jelly, cake and pie. And the old man has justly
                            earned every distinction he enjoys. Therefore, let him make your
                            hearthstone all the brighter with the ruddy coal he drags up from it
                            with his pipe, and comfortably settles himself where, with reminiscent
                            eyes, he may watch the curling smoke of his tobacco as it indolently
                            floats, and drifts, and dips at last, and vanishes up the grateful flue.
                            At such times, when a five-year-old, what a haven every boy has found
                            between the old grandfather's knees! Look back in fancy at the faces
                            blending therethe old man's and the boy'sand, with the nimbus of the
                            smoke-wreaths round the browsthe gilding of the firelight on cheek and
                            chin, and the rapt and far-off gazings of the eyes of bothwhy, but for
                            the silver tinsel of the beard of one, and dusky elf-locks of the other,
                            the faces seem almost like twins.
                        With such a view of age, one feels like whipping up the lazy years and
                            getting old at once. In heart and soul the old man is not oldand never
                            will be. He is paradoxically old, and that is all. So it is that he
                            grows younger with increasing years, until old age  at worst is always at a level par with youth. Who ever saw
                            a man so old as not to secretly and most heartily wish the veteran years
                            upon years of greater age? And at what great age did ever any old man
                            pass away and leave behind no sudden shock, and no selfish hearts to
                            still yearn after him and grieve on unconsoled. Why, even in the slow
                            declining years of old Methuselahthe banner old man of the universeso
                            old that history grew absolutely tired waiting for him to go off some
                            place and die; even Methuselah's taking off must have seemed abrupt to
                            his immediate friends, and a blow to the general public that doubtless
                            plunged it into the profoundest gloom. For 969 years this durable old
                            man had "smelt the rose above the mold," and doubtless had a thousand
                            times been told by congratulative friends that he didn't look a clay
                            older than 968; and necessarily, the habit of living, with him, was hard
                            to overcome. In his later years what an oracle he must have been, and
                            with what reverence his friends must have looked upon the "little
                            glassy-headed, hairless man," and hung upon his every utterance. And
                            with what unerring gift of prophecy could he foretell the long and husky
                            droughts of summerthe gracious rains, at last,the milk-sick breeding
                            autumn  and the blighting winter, simply
                            by the way his bones felt after a century's casual attack of
                            inflammatory rheumatism. And, having annually frosted his feet for some
                            odd centuriesboy and manwe can fancy with what quiet delight he was wont
                            to practice his prognosticating facilities on "the boys," forecasting
                            the coming of the then fledgeling cyclone and the gosling blizzard, and
                            doubtless even telling the day of the month by the way his heels itched
                            And with what wonderment and awe must old chronic maladies have regarded
                            himtackling him singly, or in solid phalanx, only to drop back
                            pantingly, at last, and slink away dumbfounded and abashed; and with
                            what brazen pride the final conquering disease must have exulted over
                            its shameless victory! But this is pathos here, and not a place for
                            ruthless speculation; a place for asterisksnot words. Peace! peace! The
                            man is dead! "The fever called living is over at last." The patient
                            slumbers. He takes his rest. He sleeps. Come away! He is the oldest dead
                            man in the cemetery.
                        Whether the hardy, stall-fed old man of the country, or the opulent and
                            well-groomed old man of the metroplis, he is one in our esteem and the
                            still warmer affections of the children. The old man from the country
                                 you are always glad to see him, and
                            hear him talk. There is a breeziness of the woods and hills, and a spice
                            of the bottom-lands and thickets in everything he says, and dashes of
                            shadow and sunshine over the waving wheat in all the varying expressions
                            of his swarthy face. The grip of his hand is a thing to bet on, and the
                            undue loudness of his voice in greeting you is even lulling and
                            melodious, since it unconsciously argues the frankness of a nature that
                            has nothing to conceal. Very probably you are forced to smile, meeting
                            the old man in town, where he never seems at ease, and invariably
                            apologizes in some way for his presence, saying, perhaps, by way of
                            explanation: "Yes, sir, here I am, in spite o' myself. Come in day afore
                            yesterday. Boys was thrashin' on the place, and the beltin' kep' a
                            troublin' and delayin' of 'emand I was potterin' around in the way
                            anyhowtell finally they sent me off to town to git some whang-luther and
                            ribbets, and while I was in, I thoughtI thought I'd jest run over and
                            see the Jedge about that Henry county matter, and as I was knockin'
                            round the court house, first thing I knowed I'll be switched to death if
                            they didn't pop me on the jury! And here I am, eatin' my head off up
                            here at the tavern. Reckon, tho' the county-'ll
                             stand good for my expenses. If hit
                            cain't, I kin!" And, with the heartiest sort of a laugh, the old man
                            jogs along, leaving you to smile till bedtime over the happiness he has
                            unconsciously contributed.
                        Another instance of the old man's humor under trying circumstances was
                            developed but a few days since. This old man was a German citizen of an
                            inundated town in the Ohio valley. There was much of the pathetic in his
                            experiencebut the bravery with which he bore his misfortunes was
                            admirable. A year ago his little home was invaded by the flood, and
                            himself and wife, and his son's family were driven from it to the hills
                            for safetybut the old man's telling of the story can not be improved
                            upon. It ran like this; "Last year, ven I svwim out fon dot leedle home
                            off mine, mit my vife, unt my son, his vife unt leedle girls, I dink
                            dot's der last time, goot-bye to dose proberty! But afder der vater it
                            gone downunt dry oopunt eberding, dere vas yet der house dere. Unt my
                            friends dey sait, 'Dot's all you got! Vell, feex oop der housedot's
                            someting! feex oop der house, unt you vood still hatt yet a home!' Vell,
                            all summerI go to work, unt spent me eberding unt feex der proberty. Den
                            I got yet a morgage on der house! Dees time here der vater  come againtill I vish it vas last year
                            vonce! Unt now all I safe is my vife, unt my son his vife, unt my leedle
                            granchilderns! Else, everding is gone! All everding! Der house gone unt
                            unt der morgage gone, too!" And then the old Teutonic face "melted all
                            over in sunshiny smiles," and, turning, he bent and lifted a sleepy
                            little girl from a pile of dirty bundles in the depot waiting-room and
                            went pacing up and down the muddy floor, saying cheery things in German
                            to the child. I thought the whole thing rather beautiful. That's the
                            kind of an old man who, saying good-bye to his son, would lean and kiss
                            the young man's hand, as in the Dutch regions of Pennsylvania, two or
                            three weeks ago, I saw an old man do.
                        Mark Lemon must have intimately known and loved the genteel old man of
                            the city when the once famous domestic drama of "Grandfather Whitehead"
                            was conceived. In the play the old mana once prosperous merchantfinds a
                            happy home in the household of his son-in-law. And here it is that the
                            gentle author has drawn at once the poem, the picture, and the living
                            proof of the old Words-worthian axiom, "The child is father to the man."
                            The old man, in his simple way, and  in
                            his great love for his willful little grandchild, is being continually
                            distracted from the grave sermons and moral lessons he would read the
                            boy. As, for instance, aggrievedly attacking the little fellow's neglect
                            of his books and his inordinate tendency toward idleness and playthe
                            culprit, in the meantime, down on the floor clumsily winding his topthe
                            old man runs on something in this wise:
                        "Play! play! play! Always play and no work, no study, no lessons. And
                            here you are, the only child of the most indulgent parents in the
                            worldparents that, proud as they are of you, would be ten times prouder
                            only to see you at your book, storing your mind with useful knowledge,
                            instead of, day in, day out, frittering away your time over your toys,
                            and your tops and marbles. And even when your old grandfather tries to
                            advise you and wants to help you, and is always ready and eager to
                            assist you, and allWhy, what's it all amount to? Coax and beg, and tease
                            and plead with you, and yet, and yet" [Mechanically kneeling as he
                            speaks] "Now that's not the way to wind your top! How many more times
                            will I have to show you!" And an instant later the old man's admonitions
                            are entirely forgotten, and his  artless
                            naturedull now to everything but the childish glee in which he shares,
                            is all the sweeter and more lovable for its simplicity.
                        And so it is, Old Man, that you are always touching the very tenderest
                            places in our heartsunconsciously appealing to our warmest sympathies,
                            and taking to yourself our purest love. We look upon your drooping
                            figure, and we mark your tottering step and trembling hand, yet a
                            reliant something in your face forbids compassion, and a something in
                            your eye will not permit us to look sorrowfully on you. And, however we
                            may smile at your quaint ways, and old-school oddities of manner and of
                            speech, our merriment is ever tempered with the gentlest reverence.
                        
                            "THE OLD MAN."
                            Lo! steadfast and serene,
                            In patient pause between
                            The seen and the unseen,
                            What gentle zephyrs fan
                            Your silken silver hair,
                            And what diviner air
                            Breathes round you like a prayer,
                            Old Man?
                        
                        
                            Can you, in nearer view
                            Of glory, pierce the blue
                            Of happy heaven through,
                            And, listen mutely, -can
                            
                            
                            Your senses, dull to us,
                            Hear angel-voices thus,
                            In chorus glorious
                            Old Man?
                        
                        
                            In your reposeful gaze
                            The dusk of Autumn days
                            Is blent with April haze,
                            As when of old began
                            The bursting of the bud
                            Of rosy babyhood
                            When all the world was good,
                            Old Man.
                        
                        
                            And yet I find a sly
                            Little twinkle in your eye;
                            And your whisperingly shy
                            Little laugh is simply an
                            Internal shout of glee
                            That betrays the fallacy
                            You'd perpetrate on me,
                            Old Man!
                        
                        
                            So just put up the frown
                            That your brows are pulling down!
                            Why the fleetest boy in town,
                            As he bared his feet and ran,
                            Could read with half a glance
                            And of keen rebuke, perchance
                            Your secret countenance,
                            Old Man!
                        
                        
                            Now, honestly, confess:
                            Is an old man any less
                            Than the little child we bless
                            And caress, when we can?
                            
                            Isn't age but just a place
                            Where you mask the childish face
                            To preserve its inner grace,
                            Old Man?
                        
                        
                            Hasn't age a truant day,
                            Just as that you went astray
                            In the wayward, restless way,
                            When, brown with dust and tan,
                            Your roguish face essayed,
                            In solemn masquerade,
                            To hide the smile it made,
                            Old Man?
                        
                        
                            Now, fair, and square, and true,
                            Don't your old soul tremble through,
                            As in youth it used to do
                            When it brimmed and overran
                            With the strange, enchanted sights,
                            And the splendors and delights
                            Of the old "Arabian Nights,"
                            Old Man?
                        
                        
                            When, haply, you have fared
                            Where glad Aladdin shared
                            His lamp with you, and dared
                            The afrite and his clan;
                            And, with him, clambered through
                            The trees where jewels grew
                            And filled your pockets, too,
                            Old Man?
                        
                        
                            Or, with Sinbad, at sea
                            And in veracity
                            Who has sinned as bad as he,
                            Or would, or will, or can?
                            
                            Have you listened to his lies,
                            With open mouth and eyes,
                            And learned his art likewise,
                            Old Man?
                        
                        
                            And you need not deny
                            That your eyes were wet as dry,
                            Reading novels on the sly!
                            And review them, if you can.
                            And the same warm tears will fall
                            Only faster, that is all
                            Over little Nell and Paul,
                            Old Man!
                        
                        
                            O, you were a lucky lad
                            Just as good as you were bad!
                            And the host of friends you had
                            Charley, Tom, and Dick and Dan;
                            And the old school-teacher, too,
                            Though he often censured you;
                            And the girls in pink and blue,
                            Old Man.
                        
                        
                            Andas often you have leant,
                            A boyish sentiment,
                            To kiss the letter sent
                            By Nelly, Belle or Nan
                            Wherein the rose's hue
                            Was red, the violet blue
                            And sugar sweetand you,
                            Old Man.
                        
                        
                            So, to-day, as lives the bloom
                            And the sweetness, and perfume
                            Of the blossoms, I assume,
                            On the same mysterious plan
                            
                            The Master's love assures,
                            That the self-same boy endures
                            In that hale old heart of yours,
                            Old Man
                        
                    
                
            
        
    
