
     ----CITATION---- 
        Dreiser, Theodore, 1871-1945. Twelve Men: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2394
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
            
                TWELVE MEN
                
            
            
            
                BOOKS BY THEODORE DREISER
                SISTER CARRIE
                JENNIE GERHARDT
                THE FINANCIER
                THE TITAN
                THE GENIUS
                A TRAVELER AT FORTY
                A HOOSIER HOLIDAY
                PLAYS OF THE NATURAL AND SUPERNATURAL
                THE HAND OF THE POTTER
                FREE AND OTHER STORIES
            
            
            
                
                    TWELVE MEN
                
                By THEODORE DREISER AUTHOR OF "SISTER
                    CARRIE," "THE HAND OF THE POTTER,"
                    "FREE AND OTHER STORIES," "JENNIE GERHARDT,"
                    ETC.
                
                    BONI AND LIVERIGHT
                    NEW YORK
                    1919
                
            
            
            
                Copyright, 1919, By BONI & LIVERIGHT, Inc.
                
                    Printed in the U. S. A.
                
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    I PETER
                        18
                        
                    II A DOER OF THE WORD
                        53
                        
                    III MY BROTHER PAUL
                        76
                        
                    IV THE COUNTRY DOCTOR
                        110
                        
                    V CULHANE, THE SOLID MAN
                        134
                        
                    VI A TRUE PATRIARCH
                        187
                        
                    VII DE MAUPASSANT, JR. 206
                        
                    VIII THE VILLAGE FEUDISTS
                        239
                        
                    IX VANITY, VANITY
                        263
                        
                    X THE MIGHTY ROURKE
                        287
                        
                    XI A MAYOR AND HIS PEOPLE
                        320
                        
                    XII W. L. S. 344
                        
                
            
            
            
            
                TWELVE MEN
                
            
            
        
        
            
            
                TWELVE MEN
                
                    PETER
                    IN any group of men I have ever known, speaking from the
                        point of view of character and not that of physical appearance, Peter would
                        stand out as deliciously and irrefutably different. In the great waste of
                        American intellectual dreariness he was an oasis, a veritable spring in the
                        desert. He understood life. He knew men. He was freespiritually, morally, in
                        a thousand ways, it seemed to me.
                    As one drags along through this inexplicable existence one realizes how such
                        qualities stand out; not the pseudo freedom of strong men, financially or
                        physically, but the real, internal, spiritual freedom, where the mind, as it
                        were, stands up and looks at itself, faces Nature unafraid, is aware of its
                        own weaknesses, its strengths; examines its own and the creative impulses of
                        the universe and of men with a kindly and non-dogmatic eye, in fact kicks
                        dogma out of doors, and yet deliberately and of choice holds fast to many,
                        many simple and human things, and rounds out life, or would, in a natural,
                        normal, courageous, healthy way.
                    The first time I ever saw Peter was in St. Louis in 1892; I had come down
                        from Chicago to work on the St. Louis Globe-Democrat, and
                        he was a part of the art department force of that paper. At that timeand he
                        never seemed to change later even so much as a hair's worth until
                        he died in 1908he was short, stocky and yet quick and even jerky in his
                        manner, with a bushy, tramp-like "get-up" of hair and  beard, most swiftly and astonishingly disposed
                        of at times only to be regrown at others, and always, and intentionally, I
                        am sure, most amusing to contemplate. In addition to all this he had an air
                        of well-being, force and alertness which belied the other surface
                        characteristics as anything more than a genial pose or bit of idle gayety.
                    Plainly he took himself seriously and yet lightly, usually with an air of
                        suppressed gayety, as though saying, "This whole business of living
                        is a great joke." He always wore good and yet exceedingly mussy
                        clothes, at times bespattered with ink or, worse yet, even soupan amazing
                        grotesquery that was the dismay of all who knew him, friends and relatives
                        especially. In addition he was nearly always liberally besprinkled with
                        tobacco dust, the source of which he used in all forms: in pipe, cigar and
                        plug, even cigarettes when he could obtain nothing more substantial. One of
                        the things about him which most impressed me at that time and later was this
                        love of the ridiculous or the grotesque, in himself or others, which would
                        not let him take anything in a dull or conventional mood, would not even
                        permit him to appear normal at times but urged him on to all sorts of
                        nonsense, in an effort, I suppose, to entertain himself and make life seem
                        less commonplace.
                    And yet he loved life, in all its multiform and multiplex aspects and with no
                        desire or tendency to sniff, reform or improve anything. It was good just as
                        he found it, excellent. Life to Peter was indeed so splendid that he was
                        always very much wrought up about it, eager to live, to study, to do a
                        thousand things. For him it was a workshop for the artist, the thinker, as
                        well as the mere grubber, and without really criticizing any one he was
                        "for" the individual who is able to understand, to portray
                        or to create life, either feelingly and artistically or with accuracy and
                        discrimination. To him, as I saw then and see even more clearly now, there
                        was no  high and no low. All things were only
                        relatively so. A thief was a thief, but he had his place. Ditto the
                        murderer. Ditto the saint. Not man but Nature was planning, or at least
                        doing, something which man could not understand, of which very likely he was
                        a mere tool. Peter was as much thrilled and entendered by the brawling
                        strumpet in the street or the bagnio as by the virgin with her starry crown.
                        The rich were rich and the poor poor, but all were in the grip of imperial
                        forces whose ruthless purposes or lack of them made all men ridiculous,
                        pathetic or magnificent, as you choose. He pitied ignorance and necessity,
                        and despised vanity and cruelty for cruelty's sake, and the miserly
                        hoarding of anything. He was liberal, material, sensual and yet spiritual;
                        and although he never had more than a little money, out of the richness and
                        fullness of his own temperament he seemed able to generate a kind of
                        atmosphere and texture in his daily life which was rich and warm, splendid
                        really in thought (the true reality) if not in fact, and most grateful to
                        all. Yet also, as I have said, always he wished to seem
                        the clown, the scapegrace, the wanton and the loon even, mouthing idle
                        impossibilities at times and declaring his profoundest faith in the most
                        fantastic things.
                    Do I seem to rave? I am dealing with a most significant person.
                    In so far as I knew he was born into a mid-Western family of Irish extraction
                        whose habitat was southwest Missouri. In the town in which he was reared
                        there was not even a railroad until he was fairly well growna fact which
                        amused but never impressed him very much. Apropos of this he once told me of
                        a yokel who, never having seen a rail-road, entered the station with his
                        wife and children long before train time, bought his ticket and waited a
                        while, looking out of the various windows, then finally returned to the
                        ticket-seller and asked, "When does this thing start?" He
                        meant  the station building itself. At the time
                        Peter had entered upon art work he had scarcely prosecuted his studies
                        beyond if so far as, the conventional high or grammar school, and yet he was
                        most amazingly informed and but little interested in what any school or
                        college had to offer. His father, curiously enough, was an educated
                        Irish-American, a lawyer by profession, and a Catholic. His mother was an
                        American Catholic, rather strict and narrow. His brothers and sisters, of
                        whom there were four, were, as I learned later, astonishingly virile and
                        interesting Americans of a rather wild, unsettled type. They were all, in so
                        far as I could judge from chance meetings, agnostic, tense, quick-movingso
                        vital that they weighed on one a little, as very intense temperaments are
                        apt to do. One of the brothers, K, who seemed to seek me out ever so often
                        for Peter's sake, was so intense, nervous, rapid-talking,
                        rapid-living, that he frightened me a little. He loved noisy, garish places.
                        He liked to play the piano, stay up very late; he was a high liver, a
                        "good dresser," as the denizens of the Tenderloin would
                        say, an excellent example of the flashy, clever promoter. He was always
                        representing a new company, introducing somethinga table or laxative water,
                        a shaving soap, a chewing gum, a safety razor, a bicycle, an automobile tire
                        or the machine itself. He was here, there, everywherein Waukesha, Wisconsin;
                        San Francisco; New York; New Orleans. "My, my! This is certainly
                        interesting!" he would exclaim, with an air which would have done
                        credit to a comedian and extending both hands. "Peter's
                        pet friend, Dreiser! Well, well, well! Let's have a drink.
                        Let's have something to eat. I'm only in town for a day.
                        Maybe you'd like to go to a showor hit the high places? Would you?
                        Well, well, well! Let's make a night of it! What do you
                        say?" and he would fix me with a glistening, nervous and what was
                        intended no doubt to be a reassuring  eye, but
                        which unsettled me as thoroughly as the imminence of an earthquake. But I
                        was talking of Peter.
                    The day I first saw him he was bent over a drawing-board illustrating a snake
                        story for one of the Sunday issues of the Globe-Democrat,
                        which apparently delighted in regaling its readers with most astounding
                        concoctions of this kind, and the snake he was drawing was most disturbingly
                        vital and reptilian, beady-eyed, with distended jaws, extended tongue, most
                        fatefully coiled.
                    "My," I commented in passing, for I was in to see him about
                        another matter, "what a glorious snake!"
                    "Yes, you can't make 'em too snaky for the
                        snake-editor up front," he returned, rising and dusting tobacco
                        from his lap and shirtfront, for he was in his shirt-sleeves. Then he
                        expectorated not in but to one side of a handsome polished brass cuspidor
                        which contained not the least evidence of use, the rubber mat upon which it
                        stood being instead most disturbingly "decorated." I was
                        most impressed by this latter fact although at the time I said nothing,
                        being too new. Later, I may as well say here, I discovered why. This was a
                        bit of his clowning humor, a purely manufactured and as it were mechanical
                        joke or ebullience of soul. If any one inadvertently or through
                        unfamiliarity attempted to expectorate in his "golden
                        cuspidor," as he described it, he was always quick to rise and
                        interpose in the most solemn, almost sepulchral manner, at the same time
                        raising a hand. "Hold! Outnot into one side, on the mat! That cost
                        me seven dollars!" Then he would solemnly seat himself and begin to
                        draw again. I saw him do this to all but the chiefest of the authorities of
                        the paper. And all, even the dullest seemed to be amused, quite fascinated
                        by the utter trumpery folly of it.
                    But I am getting ahead of my tale. In so far as the snake was concerned, he
                        was referring to the assistant who had  these
                        snake stories in charge. "The fatter and more venomous and more
                        scaly they are," he went on, "the better. I'd
                        like it if we could use a little color in this paperred for eyes and tongue,
                        and blue and green for scales. The farmers upstate would love that. They
                        like good but poisonous snakes." Then he grinned, stood back and,
                        cocking his head to one side in a most examining and yet approving manner,
                        ran his hand through his hair and beard and added, "A snake
                        can't be too vital, you know, for this paper. We have to draw
                        'em strong, plenty of vitality, plenty of go." He grinned
                        most engagingly.
                    I could not help laughing, of course. The impertinent air! The grand, almost
                        condescending manner!
                    We soon became fast friends.
                    In the same office in close contact with him was another person, one DW, also
                        a newspaper artist, who, while being exceedingly interesting and special in
                        himself, still as a character never seems to have served any greater purpose
                        in my own mind than to have illustrated how emphatic and important Peter
                        was. He had a thin, pale, Dantesque face, coal black, almost Indian-like
                        hair most carefully parted in the middle and oiled and slicked down at the
                        sides and back until it looked as though it had been glued. His eyes were
                        small and black and querulous but not meanpetted eyes they wereand the mouth
                        had little lines at each corner which seemed to say he had endured much,
                        much pain, which of course he had not, but which nevertheless seemed to ask
                        for, and I suppose earned him some, sympathy. Dick in his way was an actor,
                        a tragedian of sorts, but with an element of humor, cynicism and insight
                        which saved him from being utterly ridiculous. Like most actors, he was a
                        great poseur. He invariably affected the long, loose flowing tie with a soft
                        white or blue or green or brown linen shirt (would any American imitation of
                        the "Quartier Latin" denizen have been with  out one at that date?), yellow or black gloves,
                        a round, soft crush hat, very soft and limp and very different, patent leather pumps, betimes a capecoat, a slender cane, a
                        boutonnireall this in hard, smoky, noisy, commercial St. Louis, full of
                        middle-West business men and farmers!
                    I would not mention this particular person save that for a time he, Peter and
                        myself were most intimately associated. We temporarily constituted in our
                        way a "soldiers three" of the newspaper world. For some
                        years after we were more or less definitely in touch as a group, although
                        later Peter and myself having drifted Eastward and hob-nobbing as a pair had
                        been finding more and more in common and had more and more come to view Dick
                        for what he was: a character of Dickensian, or perhaps still better,
                        Cruikshankian, proportions and qualities. But in those days the three of us
                        were all but inseparable; eating, working, playing, all but sleeping
                        together. I had a studio of sorts in a more or less dilapidated factory
                        section of St. Louis (Tenth near Market; now I suppose briskly commercial),
                        Dick had one at Broadway and Locust, directly opposite the then famous
                        Southern Hotel. Peter lived with his family on the South Side, a most
                        respectable and homey-home neighborhood.
                    It has been one of my commonest experiences, and one of the most interesting
                        to me, to note that nearly all of my keenest experiences intellectually, my
                        most gorgeous rapprochements and swiftest developments
                        mentally, have been by, to, and through men, not women, although there have
                        been several exceptions to this. Nearly every turning point in my career has
                        been signalized by my meeting some man of great force, to whom I owe some of
                        the most ecstatic intellectual hours of my life, hours in which life seemed
                        to bloom forth into new aspects, glowed as with the radiance of a gorgeous
                        tropic day.
                    Peter was one such. About my own age at this time, he was  blessed with a natural understanding which was
                        simply Godlike. Although, like myself, he was raised a Catholic and still
                        pretending in a boisterous, Rabelaisian way to have some reverence for that
                        faith, he was amusingly sympathetic to everything good, bad,
                        indifferent"in case there might be something in it; you never can
                        tell." Still he hadn't the least interest in conforming to
                        the tenets of the church and laughed at its pretensions, preferring his own
                        theories to any other. Apparently nothing amused him so much as the thought
                        of confession and communion, of being shrived by some stout, healthy priest
                        as worldly as himself, and preferably Irish, like himself. At the same time
                        he had a hearty admiration for the Germans, all their ways, conservatisms,
                        their breweries, food and such things, and finally wound up by marrying a
                        German girl.
                    As far as I could make out, Peter had no faith in anything except Nature
                        itself, and very little in that except in those aspects of beauty and
                        accident and reward and terrors with which it is filled and for which he had
                        an awe if not a reverence and in every manifestation of which he took the
                        greatest delight. Life was a delicious, brilliant mystery to him, horrible
                        in some respects, beautiful in others; a great adventure. Unlike myself at
                        the time, he had not the slightest trace of any lingering Puritanism, and
                        wished to live in a lush, vigorous, healthy, free, at times almost barbaric,
                        way. The negroes, the ancient Romans, the Egyptians, tales of the Orient and
                        the grotesque Dark Ages, our own vile slums and evil quartershow he reveled
                        in these! He was for nights of wandering, endless investigation, reading,
                        singing, dancing, playing!
                    Apropos of this I should like to relate here that one of his seemingly gross
                        but really innocent diversions was occasionally visiting a certain black
                        house of prostitution, of which there were many in St. Louis. Here while he
                        played a flute  and some one else a tambourine
                        or small drum, he would have two or three of the inmates dance in some weird
                        savage way that took one instanter to the wilds of Central Africa. There
                        was, so far as I know, no payment of any kind made in connection with this.
                        He was a friend, in some crude, artistic or barbaric way. He satisfied, I am
                        positive, some love of color, sound and the dance in these queer revels.
                    Nor do I know how he achieved these friendships, such as they were. I was
                        never with him when he did. But aside from the satiation they afforded his
                        taste for the strange and picturesque, I am sure they reflected no gross or
                        sensual appetite. But I wish to attest in passing that the mere witnessing
                        of these free scenes had a tonic as well as toxic effect on me. As I view
                        myself now, I was a poor, spindling, prying fish, anxious to know life, and
                        yet because of my very narrow training very fearsome of it, of what it might
                        do to me, what dreadful contagion of thought or deed it might open me to!
                        Peter was not so. To him all, positively all, life was
                        good. It was a fascinating spectacle, to be studied or observed and rejoiced
                        in as a spectacle. When I look back now on the shabby, poorly-lighted,
                        low-ceiled room to which he led me "for fun," the
                        absolutely black or brown girls with their white teeth and shiny eyes, the
                        unexplainable, unintelligible love of rhythm and the dance displayed, the
                        beating of a drum, the sinuous, winding motions of the body, I am grateful
                        to him. He released my mind, broadened my view, lengthened my perspective.
                        For as I sat with him, watching him beat his drum or play his flute, noted
                        the gayety, his love of color and effect, and feeling myself low, a criminal, disgraced, the while I was staring with all my
                        sight and enjoying it intensely, I realized that I was dealing with a man
                        who was "bigger" than I was in many respects, saner,
                        really more wholesome. I was a moral coward, and he was not losing his life
                        and desires  through fearwhich the majority of
                        us do. He was strong, vital, unafraid, and he made me so.
                    But, lest I seem to make him low or impossible to those who instinctively
                        cannot accept life beyond the range of their own little routine world, let
                        me hasten to his other aspects. He was not low but simple, brilliant and
                        varied in his tastes. America and its point of view, religious and
                        otherwise, was simply amusing to him, not to be taken seriously. He loved to
                        contemplate man at his mysteries, rituals, secret schools. He loved better
                        yet ancient history, medieval inanities and atrocitiesa most singular,
                        curious and wonderful mind. Already at this age he knew many historians and
                        scientists (their work), a most astonishing and illuminating list to
                        meMaspero, Froude, Huxley, Darwin, Wallace, Rawlinson, Froissart, Hallam,
                        Taine, Avebury! The list of painters, sculptors and architects with whose
                        work he was familiar and books about whom or illustrated by whom he knew, is
                        too long to be given here. His chief interest, in so far as I could make
                        out, in these opening days, was Egyptology and the study of things natural
                        and primevalall the wonders of a natural, groping, savage world.
                    "Dreiser," he exclaimed once with gusto, his bright beady
                        eyes gleaming with an immense human warmth, "you haven't
                        the slightest idea of the fascination of some of the old beliefs. Do you
                        know the significance of a scarab in Egyptian religious worship, for
                        instance?"
                    "A scarab? What's a scarab? I never heard of one,"
                        I answered.
                    "A beetle, of course. An Egyptian beetle. You know what a beetle is,
                        don't you? Well, those things burrowed in the earth, the mud of the
                        Nile, at a certain period of their season to lay their eggs, and the next
                        spring, or whenever it was, the eggs would hatch and the beetles would come
                        up. Then the Egyptians imagined that the beetle hadn't died at all,
                        or  if it had that it also had the power of
                        restoring itself to life, possessed immortality. So they thought it must be
                        a god and began to worship it," and he would pause and survey me
                        with those amazing eyes, bright as glass beads, to see if I were properly
                        impressed.
                    "You don't say!"
                    "Sure. That's where the worship came from," and
                        then he might go on and add a bit about monkey-worship, the Zoroastrians and
                        the Parsees, the sacred bull of Egypt, its sex power as a reason for its
                        religious elevation, and of sex worship in general the fantastic orgies at
                        Sidon and Tyre, where enormous images of the male and female sex organs were
                        carried aloft before the multitude.
                    Being totally ignorant of these matters at the time, not a rumor of them
                        having reached me as yet in my meagre reading. I knew that it must be so. It
                        fired me with a keen desire to readnot the old orthodox emasculated
                        histories of the schools but those other books and pamphlets to which I
                        fancied he must have access. Eagerly I inquired of him where, how. He told
                        me that in some cases they were outlawed, banned or not translated wholly or
                        fully, owing to the puritanism and religiosity of the day, but he gave me
                        titles and authors to whom I might have access, and the address of an old
                        book-dealer or two who could get them for me.
                    In addition he was interested in ethnology and geology, as well as astronomy
                        (the outstanding phases at least), and many, many phases of applied art:
                        pottery, rugs, pictures, engraving, wood-carving, jewel-cutting and
                        designing, and I know not what else, yet there was always room even in his
                        most serious studies for humor of the bizarre and eccentric type, amounting
                        to all but an obsession. He wanted to laugh, and he found occasion for doing
                        so under the most serious, or at least semi-serious, circumstances. Thus I
                        recall that one of the butts of his extreme humor was this same Dick,  whom he studied with the greatest care for
                        points worthy his humorous appreciation. Dick, in addition to his genuinely
                        lively mental interests, was a most romantic person on one side, a most
                        puling and complaining soul on the other. As a newspaper artist I believe he
                        was only a fairly respectable craftsman, if so much, whereas Peter was much
                        better, although he deferred to Dick in the most persuasive manner and
                        seemed to believe at times, though I knew he did not, that Dick represented
                        all there was to know in matters artistic.
                    Among other things at this time, the latter was, or pretended to be,
                        immensely interested in all things pertaining to the Chinese and to know not
                        only something of their language, which he had studied a little somewhere,
                        but also their historya vague matter, as we all knowand the spirit and
                        significance of their art and customs. He sometimes condescended to take us
                        about with him to one or two Chinese restaurants of the most beggarly
                        description, andas he wished to believe, because of the romantic titillation
                        involvedthe hang-outs of crooks and thieves and disreputable Tenderloin
                        characters generally. (Of such was the beginning of the Chinese restaurant
                        in America.) He would introduce us to a few of his Celestial friends, whose
                        acquaintance apparently he had been most assiduously cultivating for some
                        time past and with whom he was now on the best of terms. He had, as Peter
                        pointed out to me, the happy knack of persuading himself that there was
                        something vastly mysterious and superior about the whole Chinese race, that
                        there was some Chinese organization known as the Six Companions, which, so
                        far as I could make out from him, was ruling very nearly (and secretly, of
                        course) the entire habitable globe. For one thing it had some governing
                        connection with great constructive ventures of one kind and another in all
                        parts of the world, supplying, as he said, thousands of Chinese laborers to
                        any one who desired them, anywhere, and although they  were employed by others, ruling them with a rod of iron,
                        cutting their throats when they failed to perform their bounden duties and
                        burying them head down in a basket of rice, then transferring their remains
                        quietly to China in coffins made in China and brought for that purpose to
                        the country in which they were. The Chinese who had worked for the builders
                        of the Union Pacific had been supplied by this company, as I understood from
                        Dick. In regard to all this Peter used to analyze and dispose of
                        Dick's self-generated romance with the greatest gusto, laughing the
                        while and yet pretending to accept it all.
                    But there was one phase of all this which interested Peter immensely. Were
                        there on sale in St. Louis any bits of jade, silks, needlework, porcelains,
                        basketry or figurines of true Chinese origin? He was far more interested in
                        this than in the social and economic sides of the lives of the Chinese, and
                        was constantly urging Dick to take him here, there and everywhere in order
                        that he might see for himself what of these amazing wonders were locally
                        extant, leading Dick in the process a merry chase and a dog's life.
                        Dick was compelled to persuade nearly all of his boasted friends to produce
                        all they had to show. Once, I recall, a collection of rare Chinese
                        porcelains being shown at the local museum of art, there was nothing for it
                        but that Dick must get one or more of his Oriental friends to interpret
                        this, that and the other symbol in connection with this, that and the other
                        vasethings which put him to no end of trouble and which led to nothing, for
                        among all the local Chinese there was not one who knew anything about it,
                        although they, Dick included, were not honest enough to admit it.
                    "You know, Dreiser," Peter said to me one day with the most
                        delicious gleam of semi-malicious, semi-tender humor, "I am really
                        doing all this just to torture Dick. He doesn't know a damned thing
                        about it and neither do these Chinese,  but
                        it's fun to haul 'em out there and make 'em
                        sweat. The museum sells an illustrated monograph covering all this, you
                        know, with pictures of the genuinely historic pieces and explanations of the
                        various symbols in so far as they are known, but Dick doesn't know
                        that, and he's lying awake nights trying to find out what
                        they're all about. I like to see his expression and that of those
                        chinks when they examine those things." He subsided with a low
                        chuckle all the more disturbing because it was so obviously the product of
                        well-grounded knowledge.
                    Another phase of this same humor related to the grand artistic, social and
                        other forms of life to which Dick was hoping to ascend via marriage and
                        which led him, because of a kind of anticipatory eagerness, into all sorts
                        of exaggerations of dress, manners, speech, style in writing or drawing, and
                        I know not what else. He had, as I have said, a "studio"
                        in Broadway, an ordinary large, square upper chamber of an old residence
                        turned commercial but which Dick had decorated in the most, to him,
                        recherche or different manner possible. In Dick's
                        gilding imagination it was packed with the rarest and most carefully
                        selected things, odd bits of furniture, objects of art, pictures,
                        booksthings which the ordinary antique shop provides in plenty but which to
                        Dick, having been reared in Bloomington, Illinois, were of the utmost
                        artistic import. He had vaulting ambitions and pretensions, literary and
                        otherwise, having by now composed various rondeaus, triolets, quatrains,
                        sonnets, in addition to a number of short stories over which he had
                        literally slaved and which, being rejected by many editors, were kept lying
                        idly and inconsequentially and seemingly inconspicuously about his placethe
                        more to astonish the poor unsophisticated "outsider."
                        Besides it gave him the opportunity of posing as misunderstood, neglected,
                        depressed, as becomes all great artists, poets, and thinkers.
                    
                    His great scheme or dream, however, was that of marriage to an heiress, one
                        of those very material and bovine daughters of the new rich in the West end,
                        and to this end he was bending all his artistic thought, writing, dressing,
                        dreaming the thing he wished. I myself had a marked tendency in this
                        direction, although from another point of view, and speaking from mine
                        purely, there was this difference between us: Dick being an artist, rather
                        remote and disdainful in manner and decidedly handsome as well as poetic and
                        better positioned than I, as I fancied, was certain to achieve this gilded
                        and crystal state, whereas I, not being handsome nor an artist nor
                        sufficiently poetic perhaps, could scarcely aspire to so gorgeous a goal.
                        Often, as around dinnertime he ambled from the office arrayed in the latest
                        modedark blue suit, patent leather boots, a dark, round soft felt hat, loose
                        tie blowing idly about his neck, a thin cane in his handI was already almost
                        convinced that the anticipated end was at hand, this very evening perhaps,
                        and that I should never see him more except as the husband of a very rich
                        girl, never be permitted even to speak to him save as an almost forgotten
                        friend, and in passing! Even now perhaps he was on his way to her, whereas
                        I, poor oaf that I was, was moiling here over some trucky work. Would my
                        ship never come in? my great day never arrive? my turn? Unkind heaven!
                    As for Peter he was the sort of person who could swiftly detect, understand
                        and even sympathize with a point of view of this kind the while he must
                        laugh at it and his mind be busy with some plan of making a fol-de-rol use
                        of it. One day he came into the city-room where I was working and bending
                        over my desk fairly bursting with suppressed humor announced, "Gee,
                        Dreiser, I've just thought of a delicious trick to play on Dick!
                        Oh, Lord!" and he stopped and surveyed me with beady eyes the while
                        his round little body seemed to fairly swell with pent-up laughter.
                        "It's too rich! Oh, if  it
                        just works out Dick'll be sore! Wait'll I tell
                        you," he went on. "You know how crazy he is about rich
                        young heiresses? You know how he's always 'dressing
                        up' and talking and writing about marrying one of those girls in
                        the West end?" (Dick was forever composing a short story in which
                        some lorn but perfect and great artist was thus being received via love, the
                        story being read to us nights in his studio.) "That's all
                        bluff, that talk of his of visiting in those big houses out there. All he
                        does is to dress up every night as though he were going to a ball, and walk
                        out that way and moon around. Well, listen. Here's the idea.
                        We'll go over to Mermod & Jaccards to-morrow and get a few
                        sheets of their best monogrammed paper, sample sheets. Then we'll
                        get up a letter and sign it with the most romantic name we can think
                        ofJuanita or Cyrene or Dorisand explain who she is, the daughter of a
                        millionaire living out there, and that she's been strictly brought
                        up but that in spite of all that she's seen his name in the paper
                        at the bottom of his pictures and wants to meet him, see? Then
                        we'll have her suggest that he come out to the west gate of, say,
                        Portland Place at seven o'clock and meet her. We'll have
                        her describe herself, see, young and beautiful, and some attractive costume
                        she's to wear, and we'll kill him. He'll fall
                        hard. Then we'll happen by there at the exact time when
                        he's waiting, and detain him, urge him to come into the park with
                        us or to dinner. We'll look our worst so he'll be ashamed
                        of us. He'll squirm and get wild, but we'll hang on and
                        spoil the date for him, see? We'll insist in the letter that he
                        must be alone, see, because she's timid and afraid of being
                        recognized. My God, he'll be crazy! He'll think
                        we've ruined his lifeoh, ho, ho!" and he fairly writhed
                        with inward joy.
                    The thing worked. It was cruel in its way, but when has man ever grieved over
                        the humorous ills of others? The paper was secured, the letter written by a
                        friend of Peter's in a  nearby real
                        estate office, after the most careful deliberation as to wording on our
                        part. Extreme youth, beauty and a great mansion were all hinted at. The
                        fascination of Dick as a romantic figure was touched upon. He would know her
                        by a green silk scarf about her waist, for it was spring, the ideal season.
                        Seven o'clock was the hour. She could give him only a moment or two
                        thenbut laterand she gave no address!
                    The letter was mailed in the West end, as was meet and proper, and in due
                        season arrived at the office. Peter, working at the next easel, observed
                        him, as he told me, out of the corner of his eye.
                    "You should have seen him, Dreiser," he exclaimed, hunting
                        me up about an hour after the letter arrived. "Oh, ho! Say, you
                        know I believe he thinks it's the real thing. It seemed to make him
                        a little sick. He tried to appear non-chalant, but a little later he got his
                        hat and went out, over to Deck's," a nearby saloon,
                        "for a drink, for I followed him. He's all fussed up.
                        Wait'll we heave into view that night! I'm going to get
                        myself up like a joke, a hobo. I'll disgrace him. Oh, Lord,
                        he'll be crazy! He'll think we've ruined his
                        life, scared her off. There's no address. He can't do a
                        thing. Oh, ho, ho, ho!"
                    On the appointed dayand it was a delicious afternoon and evening, aflame with
                        sun and in MayDick left off his work at three p.m., as Peter came and told
                        me, and departed, and then we went to make our toilets. At six we met, took
                        a car and stepped down not more than a short block from the point of
                        meeting. I shall never forget the sweetness of the air, the something of
                        sadness in the thought of love, even in this form. The sun was singing its
                        evensong, as were the birds. But Peterblessings or curses upon him!was
                        arrayed as only he could array himself when he wished to look absolutely
                        disconcertingmore like an unwashed, uncombed tramp who had been sleeping out
                        for weeks, than anything  else. His hair was
                        over his eyes and ears, his face and hands dirty, his shoes ditto. He had
                        even blackened one tooth slightly. He had on a collarless shirt, and yet he
                        was jaunty withal and carried a cane, if you please, assuming, as he always
                        could and in the most aggravating way, to be totally unconscious of the
                        figure he cut. At one angle of his multiplex character the man must have
                        been a born actor.
                    We waited a block away, concealed by a few trees, and at the exact hour Dick
                        appeared, hopeful and eager no doubt, and walking and looking almost all
                        that he hopeddelicate, pale, artistic. The new straw hat! The pale green
                        "artists'" shirt! His black, wide-buckled belt!
                        The cane! The dark-brown low shoes! The boutonniere! He was plainly ready
                        for any fate, his great moment.
                    And then, before he could get the feeling that his admirer might not be
                        coming, we descended upon him in all our wretched nonchalance and
                        unworthinessout of hell, as it were. We were most brisk, familiar,
                        affectionate. It was so fortunate to meet him so, so accidentally and
                        peradventure. The night was so fine. We were out for a stroll in the park,
                        to eat afterward. He must come along.
                    I saw him look at Peter in that hat and no collar, and wilt. It was too much.
                        Such a friendsuch friends (for on Peter's advice I was looking as
                        ill as I might, an easy matter)! No, he couldn't come. He was
                        waiting for some friends. We must excuse him.
                    But Peter was not to be so easily shaken off. He launched into the most brisk
                        and serious conversation. He began his badger game by asking about some work
                        upon which Dick had been engaged before he left the office, some order, how
                        he was getting along with it, when it would be done; and, when Dick evaded
                        and then attempted to dismiss the subject, took up another and began to
                        expatiate on it, some work he himself was doing, something that had
                        developed in connection  with it. He asked
                        inane questions, complimented Dick on his looks, began to tease him about
                        some girl. And poor Dickhis nervousness, his despair almost, the sense of
                        the waning of his opportunity! It was cruel. He was becoming more and more
                        restless, looking about more and more wearily and anxiously and wishing to
                        go or for us to go. He was horribly unhappy. Finally, after ten or fifteen
                        minutes had gone and various girls had crossed the plaza in various
                        directions, as well as carriages and saddle-horseseach one carrying his
                        heiress, no doubt!he seemed to summon all his courage and did his best to
                        dispose of us. "You two'll have to excuse me," he
                        exclaimed almost wildly. "I can't wait." Those
                        golden moments! She could not approach! "My people aren't
                        coming, I guess. I'll have to be going on."
                    He smiled weakly and made off, Peter half following and urging him to come
                        back. Then, since he would not, we stood there on the exact spot of the
                        rendezvous gazing smirkily after him. Then we went into the park a few paces
                        and sat on a bench in full view, talkingor Peter wasmost volubly. He was
                        really choking with laughter. A little later, at seven-thirty, we went
                        cackling into the park, only to return in five minutes as though we had
                        changed our minds and were coming outand saw Dick bustling off at our
                        approach. It was sad really. There was an element of the tragic in it. But
                        not to Peter. He was all laughter, all but apoplectic gayety. "Oh,
                        by George!" he choked. "This is too much! Oh, ho! This is
                        great! his poor heiress! And he came back! Har! Har! Har!"
                    "Peter, you dog," I said, "aren't you
                        ashamed of yourself, to rub it in this way?"
                    "Not a bit, not a bit!" he insisted most enthusiastically.
                        "Do him good. Why shouldn't he suffer? He'll get
                        over it. He's always bluffing about his heiresses. Now
                        he's lost a real one. Har! Har! Har!" and he fairly
                        choked, and for days and weeks and months he laughed, but he never told. He
                             merely chortled at his desk, and if any
                        one asked him what he was laughing about, even Dick, he would reply,
                        "Oh, somethinga joke I played on a fellow once."
                    If Dick ever guessed he never indicated as much. But that lost romance! That
                        faded dream!
                    Not so long after this, the following winter, I left St. Louis and did not
                        see Peter for several years, during which time I drifted through various
                        cities to New York. We kept up a more or less desultory correspondence which
                        resulted eventually in his contributing to a paper of which I had charge in
                        New York, and later, in part at least I am sure, in his coming there. I
                        noticed one thing, that although Peter had no fixed idea as to what he
                        wished to bebeing able to draw, write, engrave, carve and what nothe was in
                        no way troubled about it. "I don't see just what it is
                        that I am to do best," he said to me once. "It may be that
                        I will wind up as a painter or writer or collectorI can't tell yet.
                        I want to study, and meantime I'm making a livingthat's
                        all I want now. I want to live, and I am living, in my way."
                    Some men are masters of cities, or perhaps better, of all the elements which
                        enter into the making of them, and Peter was one. I think sometimes that he
                        was born a writer of great force and charm, only as yet he had not found
                        himself. I have known many writers, many geniuses even, but not one his
                        superior in intellect and romantic response to life. He was a poet, thinker,
                        artist, philosopher and master of prose, as a posthumous volume
                        ("Wolf, the Autobiography of a Cave Dweller") amply
                        proves, but he was not ready then to fully express himself, and it troubled
                        him not at all. He loved life's every facet, was gay and helpful to
                        himself and others, and yet always with an eye for the undercurrent of human
                        misery, error and tragedy as well as comedy. Immediately upon coming to New
                        York he began to examine and grasp it in a large way, its museums, public
                        buildings, geography, politics,  but after a
                        very little while decided suddenly that he did not belong there and without
                        a by-your-leave, although once more we had fallen into each other's
                        ways, he departed without a word, and I did not hear from him for months.
                        Temporarily at least he felt that he had to obtain more experience in a
                        lesser field, and lost no time in so doing. The next I knew he was
                        connected, at a comfortable salary, with the then dominant paper of
                        Philadelphia.
                    It was after he had established himself very firmly in Philadelphia that we
                        two finally began to understand each other fully, to sympathize really with
                        each other's point of view as opposed to the more or less gay and
                        casual nature of our earlier friendship. Also here perhaps, more than
                        before, we felt the binding influence of having worked together in the West.
                        It was here that I first noticed the ease with which he took hold of a city,
                        the many-sidedness of his peculiar character which led him to reflect so
                        many angles of it, which a less varied temperament would never have touched
                        upon. For, first of all, wherever he happened to be, he was intensely
                        interested in the age and history of his city, its buildings and graveyards
                        and tombstones which pointed to its past life, then its present physical
                        appearance, the chief characteristics of the region in which it lay, its
                        rivers, lakes, parks and adjacent places and spots of interest (what rambles
                        we took!), as well as its newest and finest things architecturally. Nor did
                        any one ever take a keener interest in the current intellectual resources of
                        a cityany city in which he happened to beits museums, libraries, old
                        bookstores, newspapers, magazines, and I know not what else. It was he who
                        first took me into Leary's bookstore in Philadelphia, descanting
                        with his usual gusto on its merits. Then and lastly he was keenly and wisely
                        interested in various currents of local politics, society and finance,
                        although he always considered the first a low mess, an arrangement or
                        adjustment of many necessary things  among the
                        lower orders. He seemed to know or sense in some occult way everything that
                        was going on in those various realms. His mind was so full and rich that
                        merely to be with him was a delight. He gushed like a fountain, and yet not
                        polemically, of all he knew, heard, felt, suspected. His thoughts were so
                        rich at times that to me they were more like a mosaic of variegated and
                        richly colored stones and jewels. I felt always as though I were in the
                        presence of a great personage, not one who was reserved or pompous but a
                        loose bubbling temperament, wise beyond his years or day, and so truly great
                        that perhaps because of the intensity and immense variety of his interests
                        he would never shine in a world in which the most intensive specialization,
                        and that of a purely commercial character, was the grand role.
                    And yet I always felt that perhaps he might. He attracted people of all
                        grades so easily and warmly. His mind leaped from one interest to another
                        almost too swiftly, and yet the average man understood and liked him. While
                        in a way he contemned their mental states as limited or bigoted, he enjoyed
                        the conditions under which they lived, seemed to wish to immerse himself in
                        them. And yet nearly all his thoughts were, from their point of view
                        perhaps, dangerous. Among his friends he was always talking freely,
                        honestly, of things which the average man could not or would not discuss,
                        dismissing as trash illusion, lies or the cunning work of self-seeking
                        propagandists, most of the things currently accepted as true.
                    He was constantly commenting on the amazing dullness of man, his prejudices,
                        the astonishing manner in which he seized upon and clung savagely or
                        pathetically to the most ridiculous interpretations of life. He was also
                        forever noting that crass chance which wrecks so many of our dreams and
                        lives,its fierce brutalities, its seemingly inane indifference to wondrous
                        things,but never in a depressed or morbid spirit; merely as  a matter of the curious, as it were. But if
                        any one chanced to contradict him he was likely to prove liquid fire. At the
                        same time he was forever reading, reading, readinghistory, archology,
                        ethnology, geology, travel, medicine, biography, and descanting on the
                        wonders and idiosyncrasies of man and nature which they revealed. He was
                        never tired of talking of the intellectual and social conditions that ruled
                        in Greece and Rome from 600 B.C. on, the philosophies, the travels, the art,
                        the simple, natural pagan view of things, and regretting that they were no
                        more. He grieved at times, I think, that he had not been of that world,
                        might not have seen it, or, failing that, might not see all the shards of
                        those extinct civilizations. There was something loving and sad in the
                        manner in which at times, in one museum and another, he would examine
                        ancient art designs, those of the Egyptians, Greeks and Romans, their public
                        and private house plans, their statues, book rolls, inscriptions, flambeaux,
                        boats, swords, chariots. Carthage, Rome, Greece, Phniciatheir colonies, art
                        and trade stuffs, their foods, pleasures and worshipshow he raved! A book
                        like Thas, Salammbo, Sonica, Quo Vadis, touched him to the quick.
                    At the same time, and odd as it may seem, he was seemingly in intimate
                        contact with a circle of friends that rather astonished me by its
                        catholicity. It included, for instance, and quite naively, real estate
                        dealers, clerks, a bank cashier or two, some man who had a leather shop or
                        cigar factory in the downtown section, a drummer, a printer, two or three
                        newspaper artists and reportersa list too long to catalogue here and
                        seemingly not interesting, at least not inspiring to look at or live in
                        contact with. Yet his relations with all of these were of a warm, genial,
                        helpful, homely character, quite intimate. He used them as one might a mulch
                        in which to grow things, or in other words he took them on their own ground;
                        a thing which I could never quite understand, being more or  less aloof myself and yet wishing always to be
                        able so to do, to take life, as he did.
                    For he desired, and secured, their good will and drew them to him. He took a
                        simple, natural pleasure in the kinds of things they were able to do, as
                        well as the kinds of things he could do. With these, then, and a type of
                        girl who might not be classed above the clerk or manicure class, he and they
                        managed to eke out a social life, the outstanding phases of which were
                        dances, "parties," dinners at one simple home and another,
                        flirting, boating, and fishing expeditions in season, evenings out at
                        restaurants or the theater, and I know not what else. He could sing (a very
                        fair baritone), play the piano, cornet, flute, banjo, mandolin and guitar,
                        but always insisted that his favorite instruments were the
                        jews'-harp, the French harp (mouth organ) and a comb with a piece
                        of paper over it, against which he would blow with fierce energy, making the
                        most outrageous sounds, until stopped. At any "party" he
                        was always talking, jumping about, dancing, cooking somethingfudge, taffy, a
                        rarebit, and insisting in the most mock-serious manner that all the details
                        he left strictly to him. "Now just cut out of this, all of you, and
                        leave this to your Uncle Dudley. Who's doing this? All I want is
                        sugar, chocolate, a pot, a big spoon, and I'll show you the best
                        fudge you ever ate." Then he would don an apron or towel and go to
                        work in a manner which would rob any gathering of a sense of stiffness and
                        induce a naturalness most intriguing, calculated to enhance the general
                        pleasure an hundredfold.
                    Yes, Peter woke people up. He could convey or spread a sense of ease and good
                        nature and give and take among all. Wise as he was and not so good-looking,
                        he was still attractive to girls, very much so, and by no means unconscious
                        of their beauty. He could always, and easily, break down their reserve, and
                        was soon apparently on terms of absolute friendship, exchanging all sorts of
                        small gossip and news with them  about this,
                        that and the other person about whom they knew. Indeed he was such a general
                        favorite and so seemingly impartial that it was hard to say how he came
                        close to any, and yet he did. At odd tete-a-tete moments he was always
                        making confessions as to "nights" or
                        "afternoons." "My God, Dreiser, I've
                        found a peach! I can't tell youbut oh, wonderful! Just what I need.
                        This world's a healthy old place, eh? Let's have another
                        drink, what?" and he would order a stein or a half-schoppen of
                        light German beer and pour it down, grinning like a gargoyle.
                    It was while he was in Philadelphia that he told me the beginnings of the
                        love affair which eventually ended in his marrying and settling down into
                        the homiest of home men I have ever seen and which for sheer navet and charm
                        is one of the best love stories I know anything about. It appears that he
                        was walking in some out-of-the-way factory realm of North Philadelphia one
                        Saturday afternoon about the first or second year of his stay there, when,
                        playing in the street with some other children, he saw a girl of not more
                        than thirteen or fourteen who, as he expressed it to me, "came
                        damned near being the prettiest thing I ever saw. She had yellow hair and a
                        short blue dress and pink bows in her hairand say, Dreiser, when I saw her I
                        stopped flat and said 'me for that' if I have to wait
                        fifteen years! Dutchyyou never saw the beat! And poor! Her shoes were clogs.
                        She couldn't even talk English yet. Neither could the other kids.
                        They were all sausagea regular German neighborhood.
                    "But, say, I watched her a while and then I went over and said,
                        'Come here, kid. Where do you live?' She didn't
                        understand, and one of the other kids translated for her, and then she said,
                        'Ich sprech nicht English,'" and he mocked her.
                        "That fixed her for me. One of the others finally told me who she
                        was and where she livedand, say, I went right home and began studying
                        German. In three months I could  make myself
                        understood, but before that, in two weeks, I hunted up her old man and made
                        him understand that I wanted to be friends with the family, to learn German.
                        I went out Sundays when they were all at home. There are six children and I
                        made friends with 'em all. For a long time I couldn't make
                        Madchen (that's what they call her) understand what it was all
                        about, but finally I did, and she knows now all right. And I'm
                        crazy about her and I'm going to marry her as soon as
                        she's old enough."
                    "How do you know that she'll have you?" I
                        inquired.
                    "Oh, she'll have me. I always tell her I'm going
                        to marry her when she's eighteen, and she says all right. And I
                        really believe she does like me. I'm crazy about her."
                    Five years later, if I may anticipate a bit, after he had moved to Newark and
                        placed himself rather well in the journalistic field and was able to carry
                        out his plans in regard to himself, he suddenly returned to Philadelphia and
                        married, preparing beforehand an apartment which he fancied would please
                        her. It was a fortunate marriage in so far as love and home pleasures were
                        concerned. I never encountered a more delightful atmosphere.
                    All along in writing this I feel as though I were giving but the thinnest
                        portrait of Peter; he was so full and varied in his moods and interests. To
                        me he illustrated the joy that exists, on the one hand, in the common, the
                        so-called homely and what some might think ugly side of life, certainly the
                        very simple and ordinarily human aspect of things; on the other, in the
                        sheer comfort and satisfaction that might be taken in things truly
                        intellectual and artistic, but to which no great expense attachedold books,
                        prints, things connected with history and science in their various forms,
                        skill in matters relating to the applied arts and what not, such as the
                        coloring and firing of pottery and glass, the making of baskets, hammocks
                        and rugs, the carving of wood, the collection and  imitation of Japanese and Chinese prints, the art of embalming
                        as applied by the Egyptians (which, in connection with an undertaker to whom
                        he had attached himself, he attempted to revive or at least play with,
                        testing his skill for instance by embalming a dead cat or two after the
                        Egyptian manner). In all of these lines he trained himself after a fashion
                        and worked with skill, although invariably he insisted that he was little
                        more than a bungler, a poor follower after the art of some one else. But
                        most of all, at this time and later, he was interested in collecting things
                        Japanese and Chinese: netsukes, inros, censors, images of jade and
                        porcelain, tea-jars, vases, prints; and it was while he was in Philadelphia
                        and seemingly trifling about with the group I have mentioned and making love
                        to his little German girl that he was running here and there to this museum
                        and that and laying the foundations of some of those interesting collections
                        which later he was fond of showing his friends or interested collectors. By
                        the time he had reached Newark, as chief cartoonist of the leading paper
                        there, he was in possession of a complete Tokaido (the forty views on the
                        road between Tokio and Kyoto), various prints by Hokusai, Sesshiu, Sojo; a
                        collection of one hundred inros, all of fifty netsukes, all of thirty
                        censors, lacquered boxes and teajars, and various other exceedingly
                        beautiful and valuable thingsMandarin skirts and coats, among other
                        thingswhich subsequently he sold or traded around among one collector friend
                        and another for things which they had. I recall his selling his completed
                        Tokaido, a labor which had extended over four years, for over a thousand
                        dollars. Just before he died he was trading netsukes for inros and getting
                        ready to sell all these latter to a man, who in turn was going to sell his
                        collection to a museum.
                    But in between was this other, this ultra-human side, which ran to such
                        commonplaces as bowling, tennis-playing, golf, billiards, cards and gambling
                        with the dicea thing which  always struck me as
                        having an odd turn to it in connection with Peter, since he could be
                        interested in so many other things, and yet he pursued these commonplaces
                        with as much gusto at times as one possessed of a mania. At others he seemed
                        not to miss or think of them. Indeed, you could be sure of him and all his
                        interests, whatever they were, feeling that he had himself well in hand,
                        knew exactly how far he was going, and that when the time came he could and
                        would stop. Yet during the process of his momentary relaxation or satiation,
                        in whatever field it might be, he would give you a sense of abandon, even
                        ungovernable appetite, which to one who had not known him long might have
                        indicated a mania.
                    Thus I remember once running over to Philadelphia to spend a Saturday and
                        Sunday with him, visits of this kind, in either direction, being of the
                        commonest occurrence. At that time he was living in some quiet-looking
                        boarding-house in South Fourth Street, but in which dwelt or visited the
                        group above-mentioned, and whenever I came there, at least, there was always
                        an atmosphere of intense gaming or playing in some form, which conveyed to
                        me nothing so much as a glorious sense of life and pleasure. A dozen or more
                        men might be seated at or standing about a poker or dice table, in summer
                        (often in winter) with their coats off, their sleeves rolled up, Peter
                        always conspicuous among them. On the table or to one side would be money, a
                        pitcher or a tin pail of beer, boxes of cigarettes or cigars, and there
                        would be Peter among the players, flushed with excitement, his collar off,
                        his hair awry, his little figure stirring about here and there or
                        gesticulating or lighting a cigar or pouring down a glass of beer, shouting
                        at the top of his voice, his eyes aglow, "That's
                        mine!" "I say it's not!" "Two
                        on the sixes!" "Three!" "Four!"
                        "Ah, roll the bones! Roll the bones!" "Get off!
                        Get off! Come on now, Spikescough up! You've got the money now. Pay
                        back. No more loans if you don't." "Once on the
                        fours  the fivesthe aces!"
                        "Roll the bones! Roll the bones! Come on!" Or, if he saw
                        me, softening and saying, "Gee, Dreiser, I'm ahead
                        twenty-eight so far!" or "I've lost thirty all
                        told. I'll stick this out, though, to win or lose five more, and
                        then I'll quit. I give notice, you fellows, five more, one way or
                        the other, and then I'm through. See? Say, these damned sharks are
                        always trying to turn a trick. And when they lose they don't want
                        to pay. I'm offa this for life unless I get a better
                        deal."
                    In the room there might be three or four girlssisters, sweethearts, pals of
                        one or other of the playerssome dancing some playing the piano or singing,
                        and in addition the landlord and his wife, a slattern pair usually, about
                        whose past and present lives Peter seemed always to know much. He had
                        seduced them all apparently into a kind of rakish cammaraderie which was
                        literally amazing to behold. It thrilled, fascinated, at times frightened
                        me, so thin and inadequate and inefficient seemed my own point of view and
                        appetite for life. He was vigorous, charitable, pagan, gay, full of health
                        and strength. He would play at something, anything, indoors or out as
                        occasion offered, until he was fairly perspiring, when, throwing down
                        whatever implement he had in handbe it cards, a tennis-racket, a golf
                        clubwould declare, "That's enough! That's enough!
                        I'm done now. I've licked-cha," or
                        "I'm licked. No more. Not another round. Come on, Dreiser,
                        I know just the place for us" and then descanting on a steak or
                        fish planked, or some new method of serving corn or sweet potatoes or
                        tomatoes, he would lead the way somewhere to a favorite
                        "rat's killer," as he used to say, or grill or
                        Chinese den, and order enough for four or five, unless stopped. As he
                        walked, and he always preferred to walk, the latest political row or
                        scandal, the latest discovery, tragedy or art topic would get his keen
                        attention. In his presence the whole world used to look different to me,
                        more colorful, more hopeful, more  gay. Doors
                        seemed to open; in imagination I saw the interiors of a thousand
                        realmshomes, factories, laboratories, dens, resorts of pleasure. During his
                        day such figures as McKinley, Roosevelt, Hanna, Rockefeller, Rogers, Morgan,
                        Peary, Harriman were abroad and active, and their mental states and points
                        of view and interestsand sincerities and insinceritieswere the subject of
                        his wholly brilliant analysis. He rather admired the clever opportunist, I
                        think, so long as he was not mean in view or petty, yet he scorned and even
                        despised the commercial viewpoint or trade reactions of a man like McKinley.
                        Rulers ought to be above mere commercialism. Once when I asked him why he
                        disliked McKinley so much he replied laconically, "The voice is the
                        voice of McKinley, but the handsare the hands of Hanna." Roosevelt
                        seemed to amuse him always, to be a delightful if ridiculous and
                        self-interested "grandstander," as he always said,
                        "always looking out for Teddy, you bet," but good for the
                        country, inspiring it with visions. Rockefeller was wholly admirable as a
                        force driving the country on to autocracy, oligarchy, possibly revolution.
                        Ditto Hanna, ditto Morgan, ditto Harriman, ditto Rogers, unless checked.
                        Peary might have, and again might not have, discovered the North Pole. He
                        refused to judge. Old "Doc" Cook, the pseudo discoverer,
                        who appeared very shortly before he died, only drew forth chuckles of
                        delight. "My God, the gall, the nerve! And that wreath of roses the
                        Danes put around his neck! It's colossal, Dreiser. It's
                        grand. Munchausen, Cook, Gulliver, Marco Polothey'll live forever,
                        or ought to!"
                    Some Saturday afternoons or Sundays, if he came to me or I to him in time, we
                        indulged in long idle rambles, anywhere, either going first by streetcar,
                        boat or train somewhere and then walking, or, if the mood was not so, just
                        walking on and on somewhere and talking. On such occasions Peter was at his
                        best and I could have listened forever, quite as the disciples  of Plato and Aristotle must have to them, to
                        his discourses on life, his broad and broadening conceptions of Natureher
                        cruelty, beauty, mystery. Once, far out somewhere beyond Camden, we were
                        idling about an inlet where were boats and some fishermen and a trestle
                        which crossed it. Just as we were crossing it some men in a boat below
                        discovered the body of a possible suicide, in the water, days old and
                        discolored, but still intact and with the clothes of a man of at least
                        middle-class means. I was for leaving, being made a little sick by the mere
                        sight. Not so Peter. He was for joining in the effort which brought the body
                        to shore, and in a moment was back with the small group of watermen,
                        speculating and arguing as to the condition and character of the dead man,
                        making himself really one of the group. Finally he was urging the men to
                        search the pockets while some one went for the police. But more than
                        anything, with a hard and yet in its way humane realism which put any
                        courage of mine in that direction to the blush, he was all for meditating on
                        the state and nature of man, his chemical componentschlorine, sulphuric
                        acid, phosphoric acid, potassium, sodium, calcium, magnesium, oxygenand
                        speculating as to which particular chemicals in combination gave the strange
                        metallic blues, greens, yellows and browns to the decaying flesh! He had a
                        great stomach for life. The fact that insects were at work shocked him not
                        at all. He speculated as to these, their duties and
                        functions! He asserted boldly that man was merely a chemical formula at
                        best, that something much wiser than he had prepared him, for some not very
                        brilliant purpose of his or its own perhaps, and that he or it, whoever or
                        whatever he or it was, was neither good nor bad, as we imagined such things,
                        but both. He at once went off into the mysterieswhere, when with me at
                        least, he seemed to prefer to dwelltalked of the divinations of the
                        Chaldeans, how they studied the positions of the stars and the entrails of
                        dead animals  before going to war, talked of
                        the horrible fetiches of the Africans, the tricks and speculations of the
                        priests of Greek and Roman temples, finally telling me the story of the
                        ambitious eel-seller who anchored the dead horse in the stream in order to
                        have plenty of eels every morning for market. I revolted. I declared he was
                        sickening.
                    "My boy," he assured me, "you are too
                        thin-skinned. You can't take life that way. It's all good
                        to me, whatever happens. We're here. We're not running it.
                        Why be afraid to look at it? The chemistry of a man's body
                        isn't any worse than the chemistry of anything else, and
                        we're eating the dead things we've killed all the time. A
                        little more or a little less in any directionwhat difference?"
                    Apropos of this same a little laterto shock me, of course, as he well knew he
                        couldhe assured me that in eating a dish of chop suey in a Chinese
                        restaurant, a very low one, he had found and eaten a part of the little
                        finger of a child, and that "it was very goodvery good,
                        indeed."
                    "Dog!" I protested. "Swine! Thou ghoula!"
                        but he merely chuckled heartily and stuck to his tale!
                    But if I paint this side of him it is to round out his wonderful, to me
                        almost incredible, figure. Insisting on such things, he was still and always
                        warm and human, sympathetic, diplomatic and cautious, according to his
                        company, so that he was really acceptable anywhere. Peter would never shock
                        those who did not want to be shocked. A minute or two or five after such a
                        discourse as the above he might be describing some marvelously beautiful
                        process of pollination among the flowers, the history of some medieval trade
                        guild or gazing at a beautiful scene and conveying to one by his very
                        attitude his unspoken emotion.
                    After spending about two or three years in Philadelphiawhich city came to
                        reflect for me the color of Peter's interests and moodhe suddenly
                        removed to Newark, having been  nursing an
                        arrangement with its principal paper for some time. Some quarrel or
                        dissatisfaction with the director of his department caused him, without
                        other notice, to paste some crisp quotation from one of the poets on his
                        desk and depart! In Newark, a city to which before this I had paid not the
                        slightest attention, he found himself most happy; and I, living in New York
                        close at hand, felt that I possessed in it and him an earthly paradise.
                        Although it contained no more than 300,000 people and seemed, or had, a
                        drear factory realm only, he soon revealed it to me in quite another light,
                        because he was there. Very swiftly he found a wondrous canal running right
                        through it, under its market even, and we went walking along its banks, out
                        into the woods and fields. He found or created out of an existing
                        boardinghouse in a back street so colorful and gay a thing that after a time
                        it seemed to me to outdo that one of Philadelphia. He joined a country club
                        near Passaic, on the river of that name, on the veranda of which we often
                        dined. He found a Chinese quarter with a restaurant or two; an amazing
                        Italian section with a restaurant; a man who had a $40,000 collection of
                        rare Japanese and Chinese curios, all in his rooms at the Essex County
                        Insane Asylum, for he was the chemist there; a man who was a playwright and
                        manager in New York; another who owned a newspaper syndicate; another who
                        directed a singing society; another who was president of a gun club; another
                        who owned and made or rather fired pottery for others. Peter was so restless
                        and vital that he was always branching out in a new direction. To my
                        astonishment he now took up the making and firing of pottery for himself,
                        being interested in reproducing various Chinese dishes and vases of great
                        beauty, the originals of which were in the Metropolitan Museum of Art. His
                        plan was first to copy the design, then buy, shape or bake the clay at some
                        pottery, then paint or decorate with liquid porcelain at his own home, and
                        fire. In the course of six or  eight months,
                        working in his rooms Saturdays and Sundays and some mornings before going to
                        the office, he managed to produce three or four which satisfied him and
                        which he kept, plates of real beauty. The others he gave away.
                    A little later, if you please, it was Turkish rug-making on a small scale,
                        the frame and materials for which he slowly accumulated, and then providing
                        himself with a pillow, Turkish-fashion, he crossed his legs before it and
                        began slowly but surely to produce a rug, the colors and design of which
                        were entirely satisfactory to me. As may be imagined, it was slow and
                        tedious work, undertaken at odd moments and when there was nothing else for
                        him to do, always when the light was good and never at night, for he
                        maintained that the coloring required the best of light. Before this odd,
                        homely, wooden machine, a combination of unpainted rods and cords, he would
                        sit, cross-legged or on a bench at times, and pound and pick and tie and
                        unravela most wearisome-looking task to me.
                    "For heaven's sake," I once observed,
                        "couldn't you think of anything more interestingly insane
                        to do than this? It's the slowest, most painstaking work I ever
                        saw."
                    "That's just it, and that's just why I like
                        it," he replied, never looking at me but proceeding with his
                        weaving in the most industrious fashion. "You have just one
                        outstanding fault, Dreiser. You don't know how to make anything out
                        on the little things of life. You want to remember that this is an art, not
                        a job. I'm discovering whether I can make a Turkish carpet or not,
                        and it gives me pleasure. If I can get so much as one good spot of color
                        worked out, one small portion of the design, I'll be satisfied.
                        I'll know then that I can do it, the whole thing, don't
                        you see? Some of these things have been the work of a lifetime of one man.
                        You call that a small thing? I don't. The pleasure is in doing it,
                        proving that you can, not in the rug itself." He clacked and tied,
                        congratulating himself vastly. In due course of time three or  four inches were finished, a soft and yet firm
                        silky fabric, and he was in great glee over it, showing it to all and
                        insisting that in time (how long? I often wondered) he would complete it and
                        would then own a splendid carpet.
                    It was at this time that he built about him in Newark a structure of
                        friendships and interests which, it seemed to me, promised to be for life.
                        He interested himself intensely in the paper with which he was connected and
                        although he was only the cartoonist, still it was not long before various
                        departments and elements in connection with it seemed to reflect his
                        presence and to be alive with his own good will and enthusiasm. Publisher,
                        editor, art director, managing editor and business manager, were all in
                        friendly contact with him. He took out life insurance for the benefit of the
                        wife and children he was later to have! With the manager of the engraving
                        department he was working out problems in connection with copper-plate
                        engraving and printing; with the official photographer, art photography;
                        with the art director, some scheme for enlarging the local museum in some
                        way. With his enduring love of the fantastic and ridiculous it was not long
                        before he had successfully planned and executed a hoax of the most
                        ridiculous character, a piece of idle drollery almost too foolish to think
                        of, and yet which eventually succeeded in exciting the natives of at least
                        four States and was telegraphed to and talked about in a Sunday feature way,
                        by newspapers all over the country, and finally involved Peter as an actor
                        and stage manager of the most vivid type imaginable. And yet it was all done
                        really to amuse himself, to see if he could do it, as he often told me.
                    This particular hoax related to that silly old bugaboo of our boyhood days,
                        the escaped and wandering wild man, ferocious, blood-loving, terrible. I
                        knew nothing of it until Peter, one Sunday afternoon when we were off for a
                        walk a year or two after he had arrived in Newark, suddenly announced  apropos of nothing at all, "Dreiser,
                        I've just hit upon a great idea which I am working out with some of
                        the boys down on our paper. It's a dusty old fake, but it will do
                        as well as any other, better than if it were a really decent idea.
                        I'm inventing a wild man. You know how crazy the average dub is
                        over anything strange, different, 'terrible.' Barnum was
                        right, you know. There's one born every minute. Well, I'm
                        just getting this thing up now. It's as good as the sacred white
                        elephant or the blood-sweating hippopotamus. And what's more,
                        I'm going to stage it right here in little old Newarkand
                        they'll all fall for it, and don't you think they
                        won't," and he chuckled most ecstatically.
                    "For heaven's sake, what's coming now?" I
                        sighed.
                    "Oh, very well. But I have it all worked out just the same.
                        We're beginning to run the preliminary telegrams every three or
                        four daysone from Ramblersville, South Jersey, let us say, another from
                        Hohokus, twenty-five miles farther on, four or five days later. By degrees
                        as spring comes on I'll bring him northright up here into Essex
                        Countya genuine wild man, see, something fierce and terrible. We're
                        giving him long hair like a bison, red eyes, fangs, big hands and feet.
                        He's entirely nakedor will be when he gets here. He's
                        eight feet tall. He kills and eats horses, dogs, cattle, pigs, chickens. He
                        frightens men and women and children. I'm having him bound across
                        lonely roads, look in windows at night, stampede cattle and drive tramps and
                        peddlers out of the country. But say, wait and see. As summer comes on
                        we'll make a regular headliner of it. We'll give it pages
                        on Sunday. We'll get the rubes to looking for him in posses, offer
                        rewards. Maybe some one will actually capture and bring in some poor
                        lunatic, a real wild man. You can do anything if you just stir up the
                        natives enough."
                    I laughed. "You're crazy," I said. "What
                        a low comedian you really are, Peter!"
                    
                    Well, the weeks passed, and to mark progress he occasionally sent me
                        clippings of telegrams, cut not from his pages, if you please, but from such
                        austere journals as the Sun and World of
                        New York, the North American of Philadelphia, the Courant of Hartford, recording the antics of his imaginary
                        thing of the woods. Longish articles actually began to appear here and
                        there, in Eastern papers especially, describing the exploits of this very
                        elusive and moving demon. He had been seen in a dozen fairly widely
                        distributed places within the month, but always coming northward. In one
                        place he had killed three cows at once, in another two, and eaten portions
                        of them raw! Old Mrs. Gorswitch of Dutchers Run, Pennsylvania, returning
                        from a visit to her daughter-in-law, Annie A. Gorswitch, and ambling along a
                        lonely road in Osgoroola County, was suddenly descended upon by a most
                        horrific figure, half man, half beast, very tall and with long hair and red,
                        all but bloody eyes who, looking at her with avid glance, made as if to
                        seize her, but a wagon approaching along the road from another direction, he
                        had desisted and fled, leaving old Mrs. Gorswitch in a faint upon the
                        ground. Barns and haystacks had been fired here and there, lonely widows in
                        distant cotes been made to abandon their homes through fear . . . I marveled
                        at the assiduity and patience of the man.
                    One day in June or July following, being in Newark and asking Peter quite
                        idly about his wild man, he replied, "Oh, it's great,
                        great! Couldn't be better! He'll soon be here now.
                        We've got the whole thing arranged now for next Sunday or
                        Saturdaydepends on which day I can get off. We're going to
                        photograph him. Wanto come over?"
                    "What rot!" I said. "Who's going to pose?
                        Where?"
                    "Well," he chuckled, "come along and see.
                        You'll find out fast enough. We've got an actual wild man.
                        I got him. I'll have him out here in the woods. If you
                        don't believe it, come over. You wouldn't believe me when
                        I said I could get the  natives worked up.
                        Well, they are. Look at these," and he produced clippings from
                        rival papers. The wild man was actually being seen in Essex County, not
                        twenty-five miles from Newark. He had ravaged the property of people in five
                        different States. It was assumed that he was a lunatic turned savage, or
                        that he had escaped from a circus or trading-ship wrecked on the Jersey
                        coast (suggestions made by Peter himself). His depredations, all told, had
                        by now run into thousands, speaking financially. Staid residents were
                        excited. Rewards for his capture were being offered in different places.
                        Posses of irate citizens were, and would continue to be, after him, armed to
                        the teeth, until he was captured. Quite remarkable developments might be
                        expected at any time. . . . I stared. It seemed too ridiculous, and it was,
                        and back of it all was smirking, chuckling Peter, the center and fountain of
                        it!
                    "You dog!" I protested. "You clown!" He
                        merely grinned.
                    Not to miss so interesting a denouement as the actual capture of this prodigy
                        of the wilds, I was up early and off the following Sunday to Newark, where
                        in Peter's apartment in due time I found him, his rooms in a
                        turmoil, he himself busy stuffing things into a bag, outside an automobile
                        waiting and within it the staff photographer as well as several others, all
                        grinning, and all of whom, as he informed me, were to assist in the great
                        work of tracking, ambushing and, if possible, photographing the dread peril.
                    "Yes, well, who's going to be him?" I insisted.
                    "Never mind! Never mind! Don't be so inquisitive,"
                        chortled Peter. "A wild man has his rights and privileges, as well
                        as any other. Remember, I caution all of you to be respectful in his
                        presence. He's very sensitive, and he doesn't like
                        newspapermen anyhow. He'll be photographed, and he'll be
                        wild. That's all you need to know."
                    In due time we arrived at as comfortable an abode for a  wild man as well might be. It was near the old Essex and Morris
                        Canal, not far from Boonton. A charming clump of brush and rock was
                        selected, and here a snapshot of a posse hunting, men peering cautiously
                        from behind trees in groups and looking as though they were most eager to
                        discover something, was made. Then Peter, slipping awayI suddenly saw him
                        ambling toward us, hair upstanding, body smeared with black muck, daubs of
                        white about the eyes, little tufts of wool about wrists and ankles and
                        loinsas good a figure of a wild man as one might wish, only not eight feet
                        tall.
                    "Peter!" I said. "How ridiculous! You
                        loon!"
                    "Have a care how you address me," he replied with solemn
                        dignity. "A wild man is a wild man. Our punctilio is not to be
                        trifled with. I am of the oldest, the most famous line of wild men extant.
                        Touch me not." He strode the grass with the air of a popular movie
                        star, while he discussed with the art director and photographer the most
                        terrifying and convincing attitudes of a wild man seen by accident and
                        unconscious of his pursuers.
                    "But you're not eight feet tall!" I interjected at
                        one point.
                    "A small matter. A small matter," he replied airily.
                        "I will be in the picture. Nothing easier. We wild men, you
                        know"
                    Some of the views were excellent, most striking. He leered most terribly from
                        arras of leaves or indicated fright or cunning. The man was a good actor.
                        For years I retained and may still have somewhere a full set of the pictures
                        as well as the double-page spread which followed the next week.
                    Well, the thing was appropriately discussed, as it should have been, but the
                        wild man got away, as was feared. He went into the nearby canal and washed
                        away all his terror, or rather he vanished into the dim recesses of
                        Peter's memory. He was only heard of a few times more in the
                        papers, his supposed body being found in some town in northeast Pennsylvania
                             or in the small item that was
                        "telegraphed" from there. As for Peter, he emerged from
                        the canal, or from its banks, a cleaner if not a better man. He was
                        grinning, combing his hair, adjusting his tie.
                    "What a scamp!" I insisted lovingly. "What an
                        incorrigible trickster!"
                    "Dreiser, Dreiser," he chortled, "there's
                        nothing like it. You should not scoff. I am a public benefactor. I am really
                        a creator. I have created a being as distinct as any that ever lived. He is
                        in many mindsmine, yours. You know that you believe in him really. There he
                        was peeking out from between those bushes only fifteen minutes ago. And he
                        has made, and will make, thousands of people happy, thrill them, give them a
                        new interest. If Stevenson can create a Jekyll and Hyde, why can't
                        I create a wild man? I have. We have his picture to prove it. What more do
                        you wish?"
                    I acquiesced. All told, it was a delightful bit of foolery and art, and Peter
                        was what he was first and foremost, an artist in the grotesque and the
                        ridiculous.
                    For some time thereafter peace seemed to reign in his mind, only now it was
                        that the marriage and home and children idea began to grow. From much of the
                        foregoing it may have been assumed that Peter was out of sympathy with the
                        ordinary routine of life, despised the commonplace, the purely practical. As
                        a matter of fact it was just the other way about. I never knew a man so
                        radical in some of his viewpoints, so versatile and yet so wholly,
                        intentionally and cravingly, immersed in the usual as Peter. He was all for
                        creating, developing, brightening life along simple rather than outre lines,
                        in so far as he himself was concerned. Nearly all of his arts and pleasures
                        were decorative and homey. A good grocer, a good barber, a good
                        saloon-keeper, a good tailor, a shoe maker, was just as interesting in his
                        way to Peter as any one or anything else, if not a little more so. He
                        respected their lines,  their arts, their
                        professions, and above all, where they had it, their industry, sobriety and
                        desire for fair dealing. He believed that millions of men, especially those
                        about him, were doing the best they could under the very severe conditions
                        which life offered. He objected to the idle, the too dull, the swindlers and
                        thieves as well as the officiously puritanic or dogmatic. He resented, for
                        himself at least, solemn pomp and show. Little houses, little gardens,
                        little porches, simple cleanly neighborhoods with their air of routine,
                        industry, convention and order, fascinated him as apparently nothing else
                        could. He insisted that they were enough. A man did not need a great house
                        unless he was a public character with official duties.
                    "Dreiser," he would say in Philadelphia and Newark, if not
                        before, "it's in just such a neighborhood as this that
                        some day I'm going to live. I'm going to have my little
                            frau, my seven children, my chickens, dog, cat,
                        canary, best German style, my garden, my birdbox, my pipe; and Sundays, by
                        God, I'll march 'em all off to church, wife and seven
                        kids, as regular as clockwork, shined shoes, pigtails and all, and
                        I'll lead the procession."
                    "Yes, yes," I said. "You talk."
                    "Well, wait and see. Nothing in this world means so much to me as
                        the good old orderly home stuff. One ought to live and die in a family.
                        It's the right way. I'm cutting up now, sowing my wild
                        oats, but that's nothing. I'm just getting ready to
                        eventually settle down and live, just as I tell you, and be an ideal orderly
                        citizen. It's the only way. It's the way nature intends us
                        to do. All this early kid stuff is passing, a sorting-out process. We get
                        over it. Every fellow does, or ought to be able to, if he's worth
                        anything, find some one woman that he can live with and stick by her. That
                        makes the world that you and I like to live in, and you know it.
                        There's a psychic call in all of us to it, I think. It's
                        the genius of our civilization, to marry one woman and settle down. And  when I do, no more of this all-night stuff
                        with this, that and the other lady. I'll be a model husband and
                        father, sure as you're standing there. Don't you think I
                        won't. Smile if you want toit's so. I'll have my
                        garden. I'll be friendly with my neighbors. You can come over then
                        and help us put the kids to bed."
                    "Oh, Lord! This is a new bug now! We'll have the
                        vine-covered cot idea for a while, anyhow."
                    "Oh, all right. Scoff if you want to. You'll see."
                    Time went by. He was doing all the things I have indicated, living in a kind
                        of whirl of life. At the same time, from time to time, he would come back to
                        this thought. Once, it is true, I thought it was all over with the little
                        yellow-haired girl in Philadelphia. He talked of her occasionally, but less
                        and less. Out on the golf links near Passaic he met another girl, one of a
                        group that flourished there. I met her. She was not unpleasing, a bit
                        sensuous, rather attractive in dress and manners, not very well informed,
                        but gay, clever, up-to-date; such a girl as would pass among other women as
                        fairly satisfactory.
                    For a time Peter seemed greatly attracted to her. She danced, played a
                        little, was fair at golf and tennis, and she was, or pretended to be,
                        intensely interested in him. He confessed at last that he believed he was in
                        love with her.
                    "So it's all day with Philadelphia, is it?" I
                        asked.
                    "It's a shame," he replied, "but
                        I'm afraid so. I'm having a hell of a time with myself, my
                        alleged conscience, I tell you."
                    I heard little more about it. He had a fad for collecting rings at this time,
                        a whole casket full, like a Hindu prince, and he told me once he was giving
                        her her choice of them.
                    Suddenly he announced that it was "all off" and that he was
                        going to marry the maid of Philadelphia. He had thrown the solitaire
                        engagement ring he had given her down a sewer! At first he would confess
                        nothing as to the reason or the details,  but
                        being so close to me it eventually came out. Apparently, to the others as to
                        myself, he had talked much of his simple home plans, his future childrenthe
                        good citizen idea. He had talked it to his new love also, and she had
                        sympathized and agreed. Yet one day, after he had endowed her with the
                        engagement ring, some one, a member of the golf club, came and revealed a
                        tale. The girl was not "straight." She had been, mayhap
                        was even then, "intimate" with other menone anyhow. She
                        was in love with Peter well enough, as she insisted afterward, and willing
                        to undertake the life he suggested, but she had not broken with the old
                        atmosphere completely, or if she had it was still not believed that she had.
                        There were those who could not only charge, but prove. A compromising note
                        of some kind sent to some one was involved, turned over to Peter.
                    "Dreiser," he growled as he related the case to me,
                        "it serves me right. I ought to know better. I know the kind of
                        woman I need. This one has handed me a damned good wallop, and I deserve it.
                        I might have guessed that she wasn't suited to me. She was really
                        too freea life-lover more than a wife. That home stuff! She was just
                        stringing me because she liked me. She isn't really my sort, not
                        simple enough."
                    "But you loved her, I thought?"
                    "I did, or thought I did. Still, I used to wonder too. There were
                        many ways about her that troubled me. You think I'm kidding about
                        this home and family idea, but I'm not. It suits me, however flat
                        it looks to you. I want to do that, live that way, go through the normal
                        routine experience, and I'm going to do it."
                    "But how did you break it off with her so swiftly?" I asked
                        curiously.
                    "Well, when I heard this I went direct to her and put it up to her.
                        If you'll believe me she never even denied it. Said  it was all true, but that she was in love with
                        me all right, and would change and be all that I wanted her to be."
                    "Well, that's fair enough," I said, "if
                        she loves you. You're no saint yourself, you know. If
                        you'd encourage her, maybe she'd make good."
                    "Well, maybe, but I don't think so really," he
                        returned, shaking his head. "She likes me, but not enough,
                        I'm afraid. She wouldn't run straight, now that
                        she's had this other. She'd mean to maybe, but she
                        wouldn't. I feel it about her. And anyhow I don't want to
                        take any chances. I like herI'm crazy about her really, but
                        I'm through. I'm going to marry little Dutchy if
                        she'll have me, and cut out this old-line stuff. You'll
                        have to stand up with me when I do."
                    In three months more the new arrangement was consummated and little Dutchyor
                        Zuleika, as he subsequently named herwas duly brought to Newark and
                        installed, at first in a charming apartment in a conventionally respectable
                        and cleanly neighborhood, later in a small house with a
                        "yard," lawn front and back, in one of the homiest of home
                        neighborhoods in Newark. It was positively entertaining to observe Peter not
                        only attempting to assume but assuming the role of the conventional husband,
                        and exactly nine months after he had been married, to the hour, a father in
                        this humble and yet, in so far as his particular home was concerned,
                        comfortable world. I have no space here for more than the barest outline. I
                        have already indicated his views, most emphatically expressed and
                        forecasted. He fulfilled them all to the letter, up to the day of his death.
                        In so far as I could make out, he made about as satisfactory a husband and
                        father and citizen as I have ever seen. He did it deliberately, in cold
                        reason, and yet with a warmth and flare which puzzled me all the more since
                        it was based on reason and forethought. I misdoubted. I
                        was not quite willing to believe that it would work  out, and yet if ever a home was delightful, with a charming and
                        genuinely "happy" atmosphere, it was Peter's.
                    "Here she is," he observed the day he married her,
                        "me frauZuleika. Isn't she a peach? Ever
                        see any nicer hair than that? And these here, now, pink cheeks? What? Look
                        at 'em! And her little Dutchy nose! Isn't it cute? Oh,
                        Dutchy! And right here in me vest pocket is the golden band wherewith I am
                        to be chained to the floor, the domestic hearth. And right there on her
                        finger is my badge of prospective serfdom." Then, in a loud aside
                        to me, "In six months I'll be beating her. Come now,
                        Zuleika. We have to go through with this. You have to swear to be my
                        slave."
                    And so they were married.
                    And in the home afterward he was as busy and helpful and noisy as any man
                        about the house could ever hope to be. He was always fussing about after
                        hours "putting up" something or arranging his collections
                        or helping Zuleika wash and dry the dishes, or showing her how to cook
                        something if she didn't know how. He was running to the store or
                        bringing home things from the downtown market. Months before the first child
                        was born he was declaring most shamelessly, "In a few months now,
                        Dreiser, Zuleika and I are going to have our first calf. The bones roll for
                        a boy, but you never can tell. I'm offering up prayers and
                        oblationsboth of us are. I make Zuleika pray every night. And say, when it
                        comes, no spoiling-the-kid stuff. No bawling or rocking it to sleep nights
                        permitted. Here's one kid that's going to be raised right.
                        I've worked out all the rules. No trashy baby-foods. Good old
                        specially brewed Culmbacher for the mother, and the kid afterwards if it
                        wants it. This is one family in which law and order are going to prevailgood
                        old 'dichtig, wichtig' law and order."
                    I used to chuckle the while I verbally denounced him for his coarse, plebeian
                        point of view and tastes.
                    
                    In a little while the child came, and to his immense satisfaction it was a
                        boy. I never saw a man "carry on" so, make over it, take
                        such a whole-souled interest in all those little things which supposedly
                        made for its health and well-being. For the first few weeks he still talked
                        of not having it petted or spoiled, but at the same time he was surely and
                        swiftly changing, and by the end of that time had become the most doting,
                        almost ridiculously fond papa that I ever saw. Always the child must be in
                        his lap at the most unseemly hours, when his wife would permit it. When he
                        went anywhere, or they, although they kept a maid the child must be carried
                        along by him on his shoulder. He liked nothing better than to sit and hold
                        it close, rocking in a rocking-chair American style and singing, or come
                        tramping into my home in New York, the child looking like a woolen ball. At
                        night if it stirred or whimpered he was up and looking. And the
                        baby-clothes!and the cradle!and the toys!colored rubber balls and soldiers
                        the first or second or third week!
                    "What about that stern discipline that was to be put in force hereno
                        rocking, no getting up at night to coddle a weeping infant?"
                    "Yes, I know. That's all good stuff before you get one.
                        I've got one of my own now, and I've got a new light on
                        this. Say, Dreiser, take my advice. Go through the routine. Don't
                        try to escape. Have a kid or two or three. There's a psychic punch
                        to it you can't get any other way. It's nature's
                        way. It's a great scheme. You and your girl and your kid."
                    As he talked he rocked, holding the baby boy to his breast. It was wonderful.
                    And Mrs. Peterhow happy she seemed. There was light in that house, flowers,
                        laughter, good fellowship. As in his old rooms so in this new home he
                        gathered a few of his old friends around him and some new ones, friends of
                        this region. In the course of a year or two he was on the very best terms
                             of friendship with his barber around the
                        corner, his grocer, some man who had a saloon and bowling alley in the
                        neighborhood, his tailor, and then just neighbors. The milkman, the coal
                        man, the druggist and cigar man at the next cornerall could tell you where
                        Peter lived. His little front "yard" had two beds of
                        flowers all summer long, his lot in the back was a gardenlettuce, onions,
                        peas, beans. Peter was always happiest when he could be home working,
                        playing with the baby, pushing him about in a go-cart, working in his
                        garden, or lying on the floor making somethingan engraving or print or a box
                        which he was carving, the infant in some simple gingham romper crawling
                        about. He was always busy, but never too much so for a glance or a
                        mock-threatening, "Now say, not so much industry there. You leave
                        my things alone," to the child. Of a Sunday he sat out on the front
                        porch smoking, reading the Sunday paper, congratulating himself on his happy
                        married life, and most of the time holding the infant. Afternoons he would
                        carry it somewhere, anywhere, in his arms to his friends, the Park, New
                        York, to see me. At breakfast, dinner, supper the heir presumptive was in a
                        high-chair beside him.
                    "Ah, now, here's a rubber spoon. Beat with that.
                        It's less destructive and less painful physically."
                    "How about a nice prust" (crust) "dipped in
                        bravery" (gravy) "heh? Do you suppose that would cut any
                        of your teeth?"
                    "Zuleika, this son of yours seems to think a spoonful of beer or two
                        might not hurt him. What do you say?"
                    Occasionally, especially of a Saturday evening, he wanted to go bowling and
                        yet he wanted his heir. The problem was solved by fitting the latter into a
                        tight little sweater and cap and carrying him along on his shoulder, into
                        the bar for a beer, thence to the bowling alley, where young hopeful was
                        fastened into a chair on the side lines while Peter and myself  or some of his friends bowled. At ten or
                        ten-thirty or eleven, as the case might be, he was ready to leave, but
                        before that hour les ongfong might be sound asleep, hanging against
                        Peter's scarf, his interest in his toes or thumbs having given out.
                    "Peter, look at that," I observed once.
                        "Don't you think we'd better take him
                        home?"
                    "Home nothing! Let him sleep. He can sleep here as well as anywhere,
                        and besides I like to look at him." And in the room would be a
                        great crowd, cigars, beers, laughter, and Peter's various friends
                        as used to the child's presence and as charmed by it as he was. He
                        was just the man who could do such things. His manner and point of view
                        carried conviction. He believed in doing all that he wanted to do simply and
                        naturally, and more and more as he went along people not only respected, I
                        think they adored him, especially the simple homely souls among whom he
                        chose to move and have his being.
                    About this time there developed among those in his immediate neighborhood a
                        desire to elect him to some political position, that of councilman, or State
                        assemblyman, in the hope or thought that he would rise to something higher.
                        But he would none of itnot then anyhow. Instead, about this time or a very
                        little later, after the birth of his second child (a girl), he devoted
                        himself to the composition of a brilliant piece of prose poetry
                        ("Wolf"), which, coming from him, did not surprise me in
                        the least. If he had designed or constructed a great building, painted a
                        great picture, entered politics and been elected governor or senator, I
                        would have taken it all as a matter of course. He could have. The material
                        from which anything may rise was there. I asked him to let me offer it to
                        the publishing house with which I was connected, and I recall with interest
                        the comment of the oldest and most experienced of the bookmen and salesmen
                        among us. "You'll  never make
                        much, if anything, on this book. It's too good, too poetic. But
                        whether it pays or not, I vote yes. I'd rather lose money on
                        something like this than make it on some of the trash we do make it
                        on."
                    Amen. I agreed then, and I agree now.
                    The last phase of Peter was as interesting and dramatic as any of the others.
                        His married life was going forward about as he had planned. His devotion to
                        his home and children, his loving wife, his multiplex interests, his various
                        friends, was always a curiosity to me, especially in view of his olden days.
                        One day he was over in New York visiting one of his favorite Chinese
                        importing companies, through which he had secured and was still securing
                        occasional objects of art. He had come down to me in my office at the
                        Butterick Building to see if I would not come over the following Saturday as
                        usual and stay until Monday. He had secured something, was planning
                        something. I should see. At the elevator he waved me a gay "so
                        longsee you Saturday!"
                    But on Friday, as I was talking with some one at my desk, a telegram was
                        handed me. It was from Mrs. Peter and read: "Peter died today at
                        two of pneumonia. Please come."
                    I could scarcely believe it. I did not know that he had even been sick. His
                        little yellow-haired wife! The two children! His future! His interests! I
                        dropped everything and hurried to the nearest station. En route I speculated
                        on the mysteries on which he had so often speculateddeath, dissolution,
                        uncertainty, the crude indifference or cruelty of Nature. What would become
                        of Mrs. Peter? His children?
                    I arrived only to find a home atmosphere destroyed as by a wind that puts out
                        a light. There was Peter, stiff and cold, and in the other rooms his babies,
                        quite unconscious of what had happened, prattling as usual, and Mrs. Peter
                        practically numb and speechless. It had come so suddenly, so out of a clear
                        sky, that she could not realize, could not even tell me  at first. The doctor was therealso a friend of his, the nearest
                        barber! Also two or three representatives from his paper, the owner of the
                        bowling alley, the man who had the $40,000 collection of curios. All were
                        stunned, as I was. As his closest friend, I took charge: wired his
                        relatives, went to an undertaker who knew him to arrange for his burial, in
                        Newark or Philadelphia, as his wife should wish, she having no connection
                        with Newark other than Peter.
                    It was most distressing, the sense of dull despair and unwarranted disaster
                        which hung over the place. It was as though impish and pagan forces, or
                        malign ones outside life, had committed a crime of the ugliest character. On
                        Monday, the day he saw me, he was well. On Tuesday morning he had a slight
                        cold but insisted on running out somewhere without his overcoat, against
                        which his wife protested. Tuesday night he had a fever and took quinine and
                        aspirin and a hot whiskey. Wednesday morning he was worse and a doctor was
                        called, but it was not deemed serious. Wednesday night he was still worse
                        and pneumonia had set in. Thursday he was lower still, and by noon a metal
                        syphon of oxygen was sent for, to relieve the sense of suffocation setting
                        in. Thursday night he was weak and sinking, but expected to come roundand
                        still, so unexpected was the attack, so uncertain the probability of
                        anything fatal, that no word was sent, even to me. Friday morning he was no
                        worse and no better. "If he was no worse by night he might pull
                        through." At noon he was seized with a sudden sinking spell. Oxygen
                        was applied by his wife and a nurse, and the doctor sent for. By one-thirty
                        he was lower still, very low. "His face was blue, his lips
                        ashen," his wife told me. "We put the oxygen tube to his
                        mouth and I said 'Can you speak, Peter?' I was so nervous
                        and frightened. He moved his head a little to indicate
                        'no.' 'Peter,' I said, 'you
                        mustn't let go! You must fight! Think of me! Think of the
                        babies!' I was a little crazy, I think, with fear. He looked  at me very fixedly. He stiffened and gritted
                        his teeth in a great effort. Then suddenly he collapsed and lay still. He
                        was dead."
                    I could not help thinking of the force and energyable at the last minute,
                        when he could not speakto "grit his teeth" and
                        "fight," a minute before his death. What is the human
                        spirit, or mind, that it can fight so, to the very last? I felt as though
                        some one, something, had ruthlessly killed him, committed plain, unpunished
                        murdernothing more and nothing less.
                    And there were his cases of curios, his rug, his prints, his dishes, his
                        many, many schemes, his book to come out soon. I gazed and marveled. I
                        looked at his wife and babies, but could say nothing. It spelled, what such
                        things always spell, in the face of all our dreams, crass chance or the
                        willful, brutal indifference of Nature to all that relates to man. If he is
                        to prosper he must do so without her aid.
                    That same night, sleeping in the room adjoining that in which was the body, a
                        pale candle burning near it, I felt as though Peter were walking to and fro,
                        to and fro, past me and into the room of his wife beyond, thinking and
                        grieving. His imagined wraith seemed horribly depressed and distressed. Once
                        he came over and moved his hand (something) over my face. I felt him walking
                        into the room where were his wife and kiddies, but he could make no one see,
                        hear, understand. I got up and looked at his cadaver a
                        long time, then went to bed again.
                    The next day and the next and the next were filled with many things. His
                        mother and sister came on from the West as well as the mother and brother of
                        his wife. I had to look after his affairs, adjusting the matter of insurance
                        which he left, his art objects, the burial of his body "in
                        consecrated ground" in Philadelphia, with the consent and aid of
                        the local  Catholic parish rector, else no
                        burial. His mother desired it, but he had never been a good Catholic and
                        there was trouble. The local parish assistant refused me, even the rector.
                        Finally I threatened the good father with an appeal to the diocesan bishop
                        on the ground of plain common sense and courtesy to a Catholic family, if
                        not charity to a tortured mother and wifeand obtained consent. All along I
                        felt as if a great crime had been committed by some one, foul murder. I
                        could not get it out of my mind, and it made me angry, not sad.
                    Two, three, five, seven years later, I visited the little family in
                        Philadelphia. The wife was with her mother and father in a simple little
                        home street in a factory district, secretary and stenographer to an
                        architect. She was little changeda little stouter, not so carefree,
                        industrious, patient. His boy, the petted F, could not even recall his
                        father, the girl not at all of course. And in the place were a few of his
                        prints, two or three Chinese dishes, pottered by himself, his loom with the
                        unfinished rug. I remained for dinner and dreamed old dreams, but I was
                        uncomfortable and left early. And Mrs. Peter, accompanying me to the steps,
                        looked after me as though I, alone, was all that was left of the old
                    life.
                
                
                
                    A DOER OF THE WORD
                    NOANK is a little played-out fishing town on the
                        southeastern coast of Connecticut, lying half-way between New London and
                        Stonington. Once it was a profitable port for mackerel and cod fishing.
                        Today its wharves are deserted of all save a few lobster smacks. There is a
                        shipyard, employing three hundred and fifty men, a yacht-building
                        establishment, with two or three hired hands; a sail-loft, and some dozen or
                        so shops or sheds, where the odds and ends of fishing life are made and
                        sold. Everything is peaceful. The sound of the shipyard axes and hammers can
                        be heard for miles over the quiet waters of the bay. In the sunny lane which
                        follows the line of the shore, and along which a few shops struggle in
                        happy-go-lucky disorder, may be heard the voices and noises of the workers
                        at their work. Water gurgling about the stanchions of the docks, the whistle
                        of some fisherman as he dawdles over his nets, or puts his fish ashore, the
                        whirr of the single high-power sewing machine in the sail-loft, often mingle
                        in a pleasant harmony, and invite the mind to repose and speculation.
                    I was in a most examining and critical mood that summer, looking into the
                        nature and significance of many things, and was sitting one day in the shed
                        of the maker of sailboats, where a half-dozen characters of the village were
                        gathered, when some turn in the conversation brought up the nature of man.
                        He is queer, he is restless; life is not so very much when you come to look
                        upon many phases of it.
                    "Did any of you ever know a contented man?" I inquired
                        idly, merely for the sake of something to say.
                    
                    There was silence for a moment, and one after another met my roving glance
                        with a thoughtful, self-involved and retrospective eye.
                    Old Mr. Main was the first to answer.
                    "Yes, I did. One."
                    "So did I," put in the sailboat maker, as he stopped in his
                        work to think about it.
                    "Yes, and I did," said a dark, squat, sunny, little old
                        fisherman, who sold cunners for bait in a little hut next door.
                    "Maybe you and me are thinking of the same one, Jacob,"
                        said old Mr. Main, looking inquisitively at the boat-builder.
                    "I think we've all got the same man in mind,
                        likely," returned the builder.
                    "Who is he?" I asked.
                    "Charlie Potter," said the builder.
                    "That's the man!" exclaimed Mr. Main.
                    "Yes, I reckon Charlie Potter is contented, if anybody be,"
                        said an old fisherman who had hitherto been silent.
                    Such unanimity of opinion struck me forcibly. Charlie Potterwhat a humble
                        name; not very remarkable, to say the least. And to hear him so spoken of in
                        this restless, religious, quibbling community made it all the more
                        interesting.
                    "So you really think he is contented, do you?" I asked.
                    "Yes, sir! Charlie Potter is a contented man," replied Mr.
                        Main, with convincing emphasis.
                    "Well," I returned, "that's rather
                        interesting. What sort of a man is he?"
                    "Oh, he's just an ordinary man, not much of anybody. Fishes
                        and builds boats occasionally," put in the boat-builder.
                    "Is that all? Nothing else?"
                    "He preaches now and thennot regularly," said Mr. Main.
                        A-ha! I thought. A religionist!
                    "A preacher is expected to set a good example," I said.
                    
                    "He ain't a regular preacher," said Mr. Main,
                        rather quickly. "He's just kind of around in religious
                        work."
                    "What do you mean?" I asked curiously, not quite catching
                        the import of this "around."
                    "Well," answered the boat builder, "he
                        don't take any money for what he does. He ain't got
                        anything."
                    "What does he live on then?" I persisted, still wondering
                        at the significance of "around in religious work."
                    "I don't know. He used to fish for a living. Fishes yet
                        once in a while, I believe."
                    "He makes models of yachts," put in one of the bystanders.
                        "He sold the New Haven Road one for two hundred dollars here not
                        long ago."
                    A vision of a happy-go-lucky Jack-of-all-trades arose before me. A visionarya
                        theorist.
                    "What else?" I asked, hoping to draw them out.
                        "What makes you all think he is contented? What does he do that
                        makes him so contented?"
                    "Well," said Mr. Main, after a considerable pause and with
                        much of sympathetic emphasis in his voice, "Charlie Potter is just
                        a good man, that's all. That's why he's
                        contented. He does as near as he can what he thinks he ought to by other
                        peoplepoor people."
                    "You won't find anybody with a kinder heart than Charlie
                        Potter," put in the boat-builder. "That's the
                        trouble with him, really. He's too good. He don't look
                        after himself right, I say. A fellow has to look out for himself some in
                        this world. If he don't, no one else will."
                    "Right you are, Henry," echoed a truculent sea voice from
                        somewhere.
                    I was becoming both amused and interested, intensely so.
                    "If he wasn't that way, he'd be a darned sight
                        better off than he is," said a thirty-year-old helper, from a far
                        corner of the room.
                    
                    "What makes you say that?" I queried.
                        "Isn't it better to be kind-hearted and generous than
                        not?"
                    "It's all right to be kind-hearted and generous, but that
                        ain't sayin' that you've got to give your last
                        cent away and let your family go hungry."
                    "Is that what Charlie Potter does?"
                    "Well, no, maybe he don't, but he comes mighty near to it
                        at times. He and his wife and his adopted children have been pretty close to
                        it at times."
                    You see, this was the center, nearly, for all village gossip and philosophic
                        speculation, and many of the most important local problems, morally and
                        intellectually speaking, were here thrashed out.
                    "There's no doubt but that's where Charlie is
                        wrong," put in old Mr. Main a little later. "He
                        don't always stop to think of his family."
                    "What did he ever do that struck you as being
                        over-generous?" I asked of the young man who had spoken from the
                        corner.
                    "That's all right," he replied in a rather
                        irritated and peevish tone; "I ain't going to go into
                        details now, but there's people around here that hang on him, and
                        that he's give to, that he hadn't orter."
                    "I believe in lookin' out for Number One, that's
                        what I believe in," interrupted the boat-maker, laying down his
                        rule and line. "This givin' up everything and
                        goin' without yourself may be all right, but I don't
                        believe it. A man's first duty is to his wife and children,
                        that's what I say."
                    "That's the way it looks to me," put in Mr. Main.
                    "Well, does Potter give up everything and go without
                        things?" I asked the boat-maker.
                    "Purty blamed near it at times," he returned definitely,
                        then addressing the company in general he added, "Look at the time
                        he worked over there on Fisher's Island, at the Ellersbie  farmthe time they were packing the ice there.
                        You remember that, Henry, don't you?"
                    Mr. Main nodded.
                    "What about it?"
                    "What about it! Why, he give his rubber boots away, like a darned
                        fool, to old drunken Jimmy Harper, and him loafin' around half the
                        year drunk, and worked around on the ice without any shoes himself. He might
                        'a' took cold and died."
                    "Why did he do it?" I queried, very much interested by now.
                    "Oh, Charlie's naturally big-hearted," put in the
                        little old man who sold cunners. "He believes in the Lord and the
                        Bible. Stands right square on it, only he don't belong to no church
                        like. He's got the biggest heart I ever saw in a livin'
                        being."
                    "Course the other fellow didn't have any shoes for to
                        wear," put in the boat-maker explanatorily, "but he never
                        would work, anyhow."
                    They lapsed into silence while the latter returned to his measuring, and then
                        out of the drift of thought came this from the helper in the corner:
                    "Yes, and look at the way Bailey used to sponge on him Get his money
                        Saturday night and drink it all up, and then Sunday morning, when his wife
                        and children were hungry, go cryin' around Potter. Dinged if
                        I'd 'a' helped him. But Potter'd take
                        the food right off his breakfast table and give it to him. I saw him do it!
                        I don't think that's right. Not when he's got
                        four or five orphans of his own to care for."
                    "His own children?" I interrupted, trying to get the thing
                        straight.
                    "No, sir; just children he picked up around, here and
                        there."
                    Here is a curious character, sure enough, I thoughtone well worth looking
                        into.
                    Another lull, and then as I was leaving the room to give  the matter a little quiet attention, I remarked to the
                        boatmaker:
                    "Outside of his foolish giving, you haven't anything
                        against Charlie Potter, have you?"
                    "Not a thing," he replied, in apparent astonishment.
                    "Charlie Potter's one of the best men that ever lived.
                        He's a good man."
                    I smiled at the inconsistency and went my way.
                    A day or two later the loft of the sail-maker, instead of the shed of the
                        boat-builder, happened to be my lounging place, and thinking of this theme,
                        now uppermost in my mind, I said to him:
                    "Do you know a man around here by the name of Charlie
                        Potter?"
                    "Well, I might say that I do. He lived here for over fifteen
                        years."
                    "What sort of a man is he?"
                    He stopped in his stitching a moment to look at me, and then said:
                    "How d'ye mean? By trade, so to speak, or
                        religious-like?"
                    "What is it he has done," I said, "that makes him
                        so popular with all you people? Everybody says he's a good man.
                        Just what do you mean by that?"
                    "Well," he said, ceasing his work as though the subject
                        were one of extreme importance to him, "he's a peculiar
                        man, Charlie is. He believes in giving nearly everything he has away, if any
                        one else needs it. He'd give the coat off his back if you asked him
                        for it. Some folks condemn him for this, and for not giving everything to
                        his wife and them orphans he has, but I always thought the man was nearer
                        right than most of us. I've got a family myselfbut, then,
                        so's he, now, for that matter. It's pretty hard to live up
                        to your light always."
                    He looked away as if he expected some objection to be made  to this, but hearing none, he went on.
                        "I always liked him personally very much. He ain't around
                        here now any morelives up in Norwich, I think. He's a man of his
                        word, though, as truthful as kin be. He ain't never done
                        nothin' for me, I not bein' a takin' kind, but
                        that's neither here nor there."
                    He paused, in doubt apparently, as to what else to say.
                    "You say he's so good," I said. "Tell me
                        one thing that he ever did that struck you as being preminently
                        good."
                    "Well, now, I can't say as I kin, exactly,
                        offhand," he replied, "there bein' so many of
                        them from time to time. He was always doin' things one way and
                        another. He give to everybody around here that asked him, and to a good many
                        that didn't. I remember once"and a smile gave evidence of
                        a genial memory"he give away a lot of pork that he'd put
                        up for the winter to some colored people back heretwo or three barrels,
                        maybe. His wife didn't object, exactly, but my, how his
                        mother-in-law did go on about it. She was livin' with him then. She
                        went and railed against him all around."
                    "She didn't like to give it to them, eh?"
                    "Well, I should say not. She didn't set with his views,
                        exactlynever did. He took the pork, thoughit was right in the coldest
                        weather we had that winterand hauled it back about seven miles here to where
                        they lived, and handed it all out himself. Course they were awful hard up,
                        but then they might 'a' got along without it. They do now,
                        sometimes. Charlie's too good that way. It's his one
                        fault, if you might so speak of it."
                    I smiled as the evidence accumulated. Houseless wayfarers, stopping to find
                        food and shelter under his roof, an orphan child carried seven miles on foot
                        from the bedside of a dead mother and cared for all winter, three children,
                        besides two of his own, being raised out of a sense of affection and care
                        for the fatherless.
                    
                    One day in the local postoffice I was idling a half hour with the postmaster,
                        when I again inquired:
                    "Do you know Charlie Potter?"
                    "I should think I did. Charlie Potter and I sailed together for
                        something over eleven years."
                    "How do you mean sailed together?"
                    "We were on the same schooner. This used to be a great port for
                        mackerel and cod. We were wrecked once together."
                    "How was that?"
                    "Oh, we went on rocks."
                    "Any lives lost?"
                    "No, but there came mighty near being. We helped each other in the
                        boat. I remember Charlie was the last one in that time. Wouldn't
                        get in until all the rest were safe."
                    A sudden resolution came to me.
                    "Do you know where he is now?"
                    "Yes, he's up in Norwich, preaching or doing missionary
                        work. He's kind of busy all the time among the poor people, and so
                        on. Never makes much of anything out of it for himself, but just likes to do
                        it, I guess."
                    "Do you know how he manages to live?"
                    "No, I don't, exactly. He believes in trusting to
                        Providence for what he needs. He works though, too, at one job and another.
                        He's a carpenter for one thing. Got an idea the Lord will send
                        'im whatever he needs."
                    "Well, and does He?"
                    "Well, he lives." A little later he added:
                    "Oh, yes. There's nothing lazy about Charlie. He's
                        a good worker. When he was in the fishing line here there wasn't a
                        man worked harder than he did. They can't anybody lay anything like
                        that against him."
                    "Is he very difficult to talk to?" I asked, meditating on
                        seeking him out. I had so little to do at the time, the very idlest of
                        summers, and the reports of this man's deeds were  haunting me. I wanted to discover for myself
                        whether he was real or notwhether the reports were true. The Samaritan in
                        people is so easily exaggerated at times.
                    "Oh, no. He's one of the finest men that way I ever knew.
                        You could see him, well enough, if you went up to Norwich, providing
                        he's up there. He usually is, though, I think. He lives there with
                        his wife and mother, you know."
                    I caught an afternoon boat for New London and Norwich at one-thirty, and
                        arrived in Norwich at five. The narrow streets of the thriving little mill
                        city were alive with people. I had no address, could not obtain one, but
                        through the open door of a news-stall near the boat landing I called to the
                        proprietor:
                    "Do you know any one in Norwich by the name of Charlie
                        Potter?"
                    "The man who works around among the poor people here?"
                    "That's the man."
                    "Yes, I know him. He lives out on Summer Street, Number Twelve, I
                        think. You'll find it in the city directory."
                    The ready reply was rather astonishing. Norwich has something like thirty
                        thousand people.
                    I walked out in search of Summer Street and finally found a beautiful lane of
                        that name climbing upward over gentle slopes, arched completely with elms.
                        Some of the pretty porches of the cottages extended nearly to the sidewalk.
                        Hammocks, rocking-chairs on verandas, benches under the treesall attested
                        the love of idleness and shade in summer. Only the glimpse of mills and
                        factories in the valley below evidenced the grimmer life which gave rise
                        mayhap to the need of a man to work among the poor.
                    "Is this Summer Street?" I inquired of an old darky who was
                        strolling cityward in the cool of the evening. An umbrella was under his arm
                        and an evening paper under his spectacled nose.
                    
                    "Bress de Lord!" he said, looking vaguely around.
                        "Ah couldn't say. Ah knows dat streetbeen on it fifty
                        timesbut Ah never did know de name. Ha, ha, ha!"
                    The hills about echoed his hearty laugh.
                    "You don't happen to know Charlie Potter?"
                    "Oh, yas, sah. Ah knows Charlie Potter. Dat's his house
                        right ovah dar."
                    The house in which Charlie Potter lived was a two-story frame, overhanging a
                        sharp slope, which descended directly to the waters of the pretty river
                        below. For a mile or more, the valley of the river could be seen, its slopes
                        dotted with houses, the valley itself lined with mills. Two little girls
                        were upon the sloping lawn to the right of the house. A stout,
                        comfortable-looking man was sitting by a window on the left side of the
                        house, gazing out over the valley.
                    "Is this where Charlie Potter lives?" I inquired of one of
                        the children.
                    "Yes, sir."
                    "Did he live in Noank?"
                    "Yes, sir."
                    Just then a pleasant-faced woman of forty-five or fifty issued from a
                        vine-covered door.
                    "Mr. Potter?" she replied to my inquiry.
                        "He'll be right out."
                    She went about some little work at the side of the house, and in a moment
                        Charlie Potter appeared. He was short, thickset, and weighed no less than
                        two hundred pounds. His face and hands were sunburned and brown like those
                        of every fisherman of Noank. An old wrinkled coat and a baggy pair of gray
                        trousers clothed his form loosely. Two inches of a spotted, soft-brimmed hat
                        were pulled carelessly over his eyes. His face was round and full, but
                        slightly seamed. His hands were large, his walk uneven, and rather inclined
                        to a side swing,  or the sailor's
                        roll. He seemed an odd, pudgy person for so large a fame.
                    "Is this Mr. Potter?"
                    "I'm the man."
                    "I live on a little hummock at the east of Mystic Island, off
                        Noank."
                    "You do?"
                    "I came up to have a talk with you."
                    "Will you come inside, or shall we sit out here?"
                    "Let's sit on the step."
                    "All right, let's sit on the step."
                    He waddled out of the gate and sank comfortably on the little low doorstep,
                        with his feet on the cool bricks below. I dropped into the space beside him,
                        and was greeted by as sweet and kind a look as I have ever seen in a
                        man's eyes. It was one of perfect courtesy and good naturevoid of
                        all suspicion.
                    "We were sitting down in the sailboat maker's place at
                        Noank the other day, and I asked a half dozen of the old fellows whether
                        they had ever known a contented man. They all thought a while, and then they
                        said they had. Old Mr. Main and the rest of them agreed that Charlie Potter
                        was a contented man. What I want to know is, are you?"
                    I looked quizzically into his eyes to see what effect this would have, and if
                        there was no evidence of a mist of pleasure and affection being vigorously
                        restrained I was very much mistaken. Something seemed to hold the man in
                        helpless silence as he gazed vacantly at nothing. He breathed heavily, then
                        drew himself together and lifted one of his big hands, as if to touch me,
                        but refrained.
                    "Yes, brother," he said after a time, "I am."
                    "Well, that's good," I replied, taking a slight
                        mental exception to the use of the word brother. "What makes you
                        contented?"
                    
                    "I don't know, unless it is that I've found out
                        what I ought to do. You see, I need so very little for myself that I
                        couldn't be very unhappy."
                    "What ought you to do?"
                    "I ought to love my fellowmen."
                    "And do you?"
                    "Say, brother, but I do," he insisted quite simply and with
                        no evidence of chicane or make-believea simple, natural enthusiasm.
                        "I love everybody. There isn't anybody so low or so mean
                        but I love him. I love you, yes, I do. I love you."
                    He reached out and touched me with his hand, and while I was inclined to take
                        exception to this very moral enthusiasm, I thrilled just the same as I have
                        not over the touch of any man in years. There was something effective and
                        electric about him, so very warm and foolishly human. The glance which
                        accompanied it spoke, it seemed, as truthfully as his words. He probably did
                        love meor thought he did. What difference?
                    We lapsed into silence. The scene below was so charming that I could easily
                        gaze at it in silence. This little house was very simple, not poor, by no
                        means prosperous, but well-orderedsuch a home as such a man might have.
                        After a while I said:
                    "It is very evident that you think the condition of some of your
                        fellowmen isn't what it ought to be. Tell me what you are trying to
                        do. What method have you for improving their condition?"
                    "The way I reason is this-a-way," he began. "All
                        that some people have is their feelings, nothing else. Take a tramp, for
                        instance, as I often have. When you begin to sum up to see where to begin,
                        you find that all he has in the world, besides his pipe and a little
                        tobacco, is his feelings. It's all most people have, rich or poor,
                        though a good many think they have more than that. I try not to injure
                        anybody's feelings."
                    
                    He looked at me as though he had expressed the solution of the difficulties
                        of the world, and the wonderful, kindly eyes beamed in rich romance upon the
                        scene.
                    "Very good," I said, "but what do you do? How do
                        you go about it to aid your fellowmen?"
                    "Well," he answered, unconsciously overlooking his own
                        personal actions in the matter, "I try to bring them the salvation
                        which the Bible teaches. You know I stand on the Bible, from cover to
                        cover."
                    "Yes, I know you stand on the Bible, but what do you do? You
                        don't merely preach the Bible to them. What do you do?"
                    "No, sir, I don't preach the Bible at all. I stand on it
                        myself. I try as near as I can to do what it says. I go wherever I can be
                        useful. If anybody is sick or in trouble, I'm ready to go.
                        I'll be a nurse. I'll work and earn them food.
                        I'll give them anything I canthat's what I do."
                    "How can you give when you haven't anything? They told me
                        in Noank that you never worked for money."
                    "Not for myself alone. I never take any money for myself alone. That
                        would be self-seeking. Anything I earn or take is for the Lord, not me. I
                        never keep it. The Lord doesn't allow a man to be
                        self-seeking."
                    "Well, then, when you get money what do you do with it? You
                        can't do and live without money."
                    He had been looking away across the river and the bridge to the city below,
                        but now he brought his eyes back and fixed them on me.
                    "I've been working now for twenty years or more, and,
                        although I've never had more money than would last me a few days at
                        a time, I've never wanted for anything and I've been able
                        to help others. I've run pretty close sometimes. Time and time
                        again I've been compelled to say, 'Lord, I'm all
                        out of coal,' or 'Lord, I'm going to have to ask
                        you to get me my fare to New Haven tomorrow,' but in the moment of
                        my need  He has never forgotten me. Why,
                        I've gone down to the depot time and time again, when it was
                        necessary for me to go, without five cents in my pocket, and He's
                        been there to meet me. Why, He wouldn't keep you waiting when
                        you're about His work. He wouldn't forget younot for a
                        minute."
                    I looked at the man in open-eyed amazement.
                    "Do you mean to say that you would go down to a depot without money
                        and wait for money to come to you?"
                    "Oh, brother," he said, with the softest light in his eyes,
                        "if you only knew what it is to have faith!"
                    He laid his hand softly on mine.
                    "What is car-fare to New Haven or to anywhere, to Him?"
                    "But," I replied materially, "you haven't
                        any car-fare when you go therehow do you actually get it? Who gives it to
                        you? Give me one instance."
                    "Why, it was only last week, brother, that a woman wrote me from
                        Malden, Massachusetts, wanting me to come and see her. She's very
                        sick with consumption, and she thought she was going to die. I used to know
                        her in Noank, and she thought if she could get to see me she would feel
                        better.
                    "I didn't have any money at the time, but that
                        didn't make any difference.
                    "'Lord,' I said, 'here's a woman
                        sick in Malden, and she wants me to come to her. I haven't got any
                        money, but I'll go right down to the depot, in time to catch a
                        certain train,' and I went. And while I was standing there a man
                        came up to me and said, 'Brother, I'm told to give you
                        this,' and he handed me ten dollars."
                    "Did you know the man?" I exclaimed.
                    "Never saw him before in my life," he replied, smiling
                        genially.
                    "And didn't he say anything more than that?"
                    "No."
                    
                    I stared at him, and he added, as if to take the edge off my astonishment:
                    "Why, bless your heart, I knew he was from the Lord, just the moment
                        I saw him coming."
                    "You mean to say you were standing there without a cent, expecting
                        the Lord to help you, and He did?"
                    "'He shall call upon me, and I shall answer
                        him,'" he answered simply, quoting the Ninety-first Psalm.
                    This incident was still the subject of my inquiry when a little colored girl
                        came out of the yard and paused a moment before us.
                    "May I go down across the bridge, papa?" she asked.
                    "Yes," he answered, and then as she tripped away, said:
                    "She's one of my adopted children." He gazed
                        between his knees at the sidewalk.
                    "Have you many others?"
                    "Three."
                    "Raising them, are you?"
                    "Yes."
                    "They seem to think, down in Noank, that living as you do and giving
                        everything away is satisfactory to you but rather hard on your wife and
                        children."
                    "Well, it is true that she did feel a little uncertain in the
                        beginning, but she's never wanted for anything. She'll
                        tell you herself that she's never been without a thing that she
                        really needed, and she's been happy."
                    He paused to meditate, I presume, over the opinion of his former fellow
                        townsmen, and then added:
                    "It's true, there have been times when we have been right
                        where we had to have certain things pretty badly, before they came, but they
                        never failed to come."
                    While he was still talking, Mrs. Potter came around the corner of the house
                        and out upon the sidewalk. She was going to the Saturday evening market in
                        the city below.
                    
                    "Here she is," he said. "Now you can ask
                        her."
                    "What is it?" she inquired, turning a serene and smiling
                        face to me.
                    "They still think, down in Noank, that you're not very
                        happy with me," he said. "They're afraid you want
                        for something once in a while."
                    She took this piece of neighborly interference in better fashion than most
                        would, I fancy.
                    "I have never wanted for anything since I have been married to my
                        husband," she said. "I am thoroughly contented."
                    She looked at him and he at her, and there passed between them an
                        affectionate glance.
                    "Yes," he said, when she had passed after a pleasing little
                        conversation, "my wife has been a great help to me. She has never
                        complained."
                    "People are inclined to talk a little," I said.
                    "Well, you see, she never complained, but she did feel a little bit
                        worried in the beginning."
                    "Have you a mission or a church here in Norwich?"
                    "No, I don't believe in churches."
                    "Not in churches?"
                    "No. The sight of a minister preaching the word of God for so much a
                        year is all a mockery to me."
                    "What do you believe in?"
                    "Personal service. Churches and charitable institutions and
                        societies are all valueless. You can't reach your fellowman that
                        way. They build up buildings and pay salariesbut there's a better
                        way." (I was thinking of St. Francis and his original dream, before
                        they threw him out and established monasteries and a costume or uniformthe
                        thing he so much objected to.) "This giving of a few old clothes
                        that the moths will get anyhow, that won't do. You've got
                        to give something of yourself, and that's affection. Love is the
                        only thing you can really give in all this world. When you give  love, you give everything. Everything comes
                        with it in some way or other."
                    "How do you say?" I queried. "Money certainly
                        comes handy sometimes."
                    "Yes, when you give it with your own hand and heartin no other way.
                        It comes to nothing just contributed to some thing. Ah!" he added,
                        with sudden animation, "the tangles men can get themselves into,
                        the snarls, the wretchedness! Troubles with women, with men whom they owe,
                        with evil things they say and think, until they can't walk down the
                        street any more without peeping about to see if they are followed. They
                        can't look you in the face; can't walk a straight course,
                        but have got to sneak around corners. Poor, miserable,
                        unhappythey're worrying and crying and dodging one
                        another!"
                    He paused, lost in contemplation of the picture he had conjured up.
                    "Yes," I went on catechistically, determined, if I could,
                        to rout out this matter of giving, this actual example of the modus operandi
                        of Christian charity. "What do you do? How do you get along without
                        giving them money?"
                    "I don't get along without giving them some money. There
                        are cases, lots of them, where a little money is necessary. But, brother, it
                        is so little necessary at times. It isn't always money they want.
                        You can't reach them with old clothes and charity
                        societies," he insisted. "You've got to love
                        them, brother. You've got to go to them and love them, just as they
                        are, scarred and miserable and bad-hearted."
                    "Yes," I replied doubtfully, deciding to follow this up
                        later. "But just what is it you do in a needy case? One
                        instance?"
                    "Why, one night I was passing a little house in this town,"
                        he went on, "and I heard a woman crying. I went right to the door
                        and opened it, and when I got inside she just stopped and looked at me.
                    
                    "Madam,' I said, 'I have come to help you, if I
                        can. Now you tell me what you're crying for.'
                    "Well, sir, you know she sat there and told me how her husband drank
                        and how she didn't have anything in the house to eat, and so I just
                        gave her all I had and told her I would see her husband for her, and the
                        next day I went and hunted him up and said to him, 'Oh, brother, I
                        wish you would open your eyes and see what you are doing. I wish you
                        wouldn't do that any more. It's only misery you are
                        creating.' And, you know, I got to telling about how badly his wife
                        felt about it, and how I intended to work and try and help her, and bless me
                        if he didn't up and promise me before I got through that he
                        wouldn't do that any more. And he didn't. He's
                        working today, and it's been two years since I went to him,
                        nearly."
                    His eyes were alight with his appreciation of personal service.
                    "Yes, that's one instance," I said.
                    "Oh, there are plenty of them," he replied.
                        "It's the only way. Down here in New London a couple of
                        winters ago we had a terrible time of it. That was the winter of the panic,
                        you know. Coldmy, but that was a cold winter, and thousands of people out of
                        workjust thousands. It was awful. I tried to do what I could here and there
                        all along, but finally things got so bad there that I went to the mayor. I
                        saw they were raising some kind of a fund to help the poor, so I told him
                        that if he'd give me a little of the money they were talking of
                        spending that I'd feed the hungry for a cent-and-a-half a
                        meal."
                    "A cent-and-a-half a meal!"
                    "Yes, sir. They all thought it was rather curious, not possible at
                        first, but they gave me the money and I fed 'em."
                    "Good meals?"
                    "Yes, as good as I ever eat myself," he replied.
                    
                    "How did you do it?" I asked.
                    "Oh, I can cook. I just went around to the markets, and told the
                        market-men what I wantedheads of mackerel, and the part of the halibut
                        that's left after the rich man cuts off his steakit's the
                        poorest part that he pays for, you know. And I went fishing myself two or
                        three timesborrowed a big boat and got men to help meoh, I'm a good
                        fisherman, you know. And then I got the loan of an old covered brick-yard
                        that no one was using any more, a great big thing that I could close up and
                        build fires in, and I put my kettle in there and rigged up tables out of
                        borrowed boards, and got people to loan me plates and spoons and knives and
                        forks and cups. I made fish chowder, and fish dinners, and really I set a
                        very fine table, I did, that winter."
                    "For a cent-and-a-half a meal!"
                    "Yes, sir, a cent-and-a-half a meal. Ask any one in New London.
                        That's all it cost me. The mayor said he was surprised at the way I
                        did it."
                    "Well, but there wasn't any particular personal service in
                        the money they gave you?" I asked, catching him up on that point.
                        "They didn't personally servethose who gave you the
                        money?"
                    "No, sir, they didn't," he replied dreamily, with
                        unconscious simplicity. "But they gave through me, you see.
                        That's the way it was. I gave the personal service. Don't
                        you see? That's the way."
                    "Yes, that's the way," I smiled, avoiding as far
                        as possible a further discussion of this contradiction, so unconscious on
                        his part, and in the drag of his thought he took up another idea.
                    "I clothed 'em that winter, toowent around and got barrels
                        and boxes of old clothing. Some of them felt a little ashamed to put on the
                        things, but I got over that, all right. I was wearing them myself, and I
                        just told them, 'Don't feel 
                        badly, brother. I'm wearing them out of the same barrel with
                        youI'm wearing them out of the same barrel.' Got my
                        clothes entirely free for that winter."
                    "Can you always get all the aid you need for such
                        enterprises?"
                    "Usually, and then I can earn a good deal of money when I work
                        steadily. I can get a hundred and fifty dollars for a little yacht, you
                        know, every time I find time to make one; and I can make a good deal of
                        money out of fishing. I went out fishing here on the Fourth of July and
                        caught two hundred blackfishfour and five pounds, almost, every one of
                        them."
                    "That ought to be profitable," I said.
                    "Well, it was," he replied.
                    "How much did you get for them?"
                    "Oh, I didn't sell them," he said. "I
                        never take money for my work that way. I gave them all away."
                    "What did you do?" I asked, laughing"advertise for
                        people to come for them?"
                    "No. My wife took some, and my daughters, and I took the rest and we
                        carried them around to people that we thought would like to have
                        them."
                    "Well, that wasn't so profitable, was it?" I
                        commented amusedly.
                    "Yes, they were fine fish," he replied, not seeming to have
                        heard me.
                    We dropped the subject of personal service at this point, and I expressed the
                        opinion that his service was only a temporary expedient. Times changed, and
                        with them, people. They forgot. Perhaps those he aided were none the better
                        for accepting his charity.
                    "I know what you mean," he said. "But that
                        don't make any difference. You just have to keep on giving,
                        that's all, see? Not all of 'em turn back. It helps a lot.
                        Money is the  only dangerous thing to givebut I
                        never give moneynot very often. I give myself, rather, as much as possible.
                        I give food and clothing, too, but I try to show 'em a new
                        waythat's not money, you know. So many people need a new way.
                        They're looking for it often, only they don't seem to know
                        how. But God, dear brother, however poor or mean they areHe knows.
                        You've got to reach the heart, you know, and I let Him help me.
                        You've got to make a man over in his soul, if you want to help him,
                        and money won't help you to do that, you know. No, it
                        won't."
                    He looked up at me in clear-eyed faith. It was remarkable.
                    "Make them over?" I queried, still curious, for it was all
                        like a romance, and rather fantastic to me. "What do you mean? How
                        do you make them over?"
                    "Oh, in their attitude, that's how. You've got to
                        change a man and bring him out of self-seeking if you really want to make
                        him good. Most men are so tangled up in their own errors and bad ways, and
                        so worried over their seekings, that unless you can set them to giving
                        it's no use. They're always seeking, and they
                        don't know what they want half the time. Money isn't the
                        thing. Why, half of them wouldn't understand how to use it if they
                        had it. Their minds are not bright enough. Their perceptions are not clear
                        enough. All you can do is to make them content with themselves. And that,
                        giving to others will do. I never saw the man or the woman yet who
                        couldn't be happy if you could make them feel the need of living
                        for others, of doing something for somebody besides themselves.
                        It's a fact. Selfish people are never happy."
                    He rubbed his hands as if he saw the solution of the world's
                        difficulties very clearly, and I said to him:
                    "Well, now, you've got a man out of the mire, and
                        'saved,' as you call it, and then what? What comes
                        next?"
                    
                    "Well, then he's saved," he replied.
                        "Happiness comes nextcontent."
                    "I know. But must he go to church, or conform to certain
                        rules?"
                    "No, no, no!" he replied sweetly. "Nothing to do
                        except to be good to others." "True religion and undefiled
                        before our God and Father is this," he quoted, "to visit
                        the widow and the orphan in their affliction and to keep unspotted from the
                        world. Charity is kind," you know. 'Charity vaunteth not
                        itself, is not puffed up, seeketh not its own.'"
                    "Well," I said, rather aimlessly, I will admit, for this
                        high faith staggered me. (How high! How high!) "And then
                        what?"
                    "Well, then the world would come about. It would be so much better.
                        All the misery is in the lack of sympathy one with another. When we get that
                        straightened out we can work in peace. There are lots of things to do, you
                        know."
                    Yes, I thought, looking down on the mills and the driving force of
                        self-intereston greed, lust, love of pleasure, all their fantastic and yet
                        moving dreams.
                    "I'm an ignorant man myself, and I don't know
                        all," he went on, "and I'd like to study. My, but
                        I'd like to look into all things, but I can't do it now.
                        We can't stop until this thing is straightened out. Some time,
                        maybe," and he looked peacefully away.
                    "By the way," I said, "whatever became of the man
                        to whom you gave your rubber boots over on Fisher's
                        Island?"
                    His face lit up as if it were the most natural thing that I should know about
                        it.
                    "Say," he exclaimed, in the most pleased and confidential
                        way, as if we were talking about a mutual friend, "I saw him not
                        long ago. And, do you know, he's a good man nowreally, he is. Sober
                        and hard-working. And, say, would you believe it, he told me that I was the
                        cause of itjust that  miserable old pair of
                        rubber bootswhat do you think of that?"
                    I shook his hand at parting, and as we stood looking at each other in the
                        shadow of the evening I asked him:
                    "Are you afraid to die?"
                    "Say, brother, but I'm not," he returned.
                        "It hasn't any terror for me at all. I'm just as
                        willing. My, but I'm willing."
                    He smiled and gripped me heartily again, and, as I was starting to go, said:
                    "If I die tonight, it'll be all right. He'll use
                        me just as long as He needs me. That I know. Good-by."
                    "Good-by," I called back.
                    He hung by his fence, looking down upon the city. As I turned the next corner
                        I saw him awakening from his reflection and waddling stolidly back into the
                        house.
                
                
                
                    MY BROTHER PAUL
                    I LIKE best to think of him as he was at the height of his
                        all-too-brief reputation and success, when, as the author and composer of
                        various American popular successes ("On the Banks of the
                        Wabash," "Just Tell Them That You Saw Me," and
                        various others), as a third owner of one of the most successful popular
                        music publishing houses in the city and as an actor and playwright of some
                        small repute, he was wont to spin like a moth in the white light of
                        Broadway. By reason of a little luck and some talent he had come so far,
                        done so much for himself. In his day he had been by turn a novitiate in a
                        Western seminary which trained aspirants for the Catholic priesthood; a
                        singer and entertainer with a perambulating cure-all oil troupe or wagon
                        ("Hamlin's Wizard Oil") traveling throughout
                        Ohio, Indiana and Illinois; both end- and middle-man with one, two or three
                        different minstrel companies of repute; the editor or originator and author
                        of a "funny column" in a Western small city paper; the
                        author of the songs mentioned and a hundred others; a black-face monologue
                        artist; a white-face ditto, at Tony Pastor's, Miner's and
                        Niblo's of the old days; a comic lead; co-star and star in such
                        melodramas and farces as "The Danger Signal,"
                        "The Two Johns," "A Tin Soldier,"
                        "The Midnight Bell," "A Green Goods Man"
                        (a farce which he himself wrote, by the way), and others. The man had a
                        genius for the kind of gayety, poetry and romance which may, and no doubt
                        must be, looked upon as exceedingly middle-class but which nonetheless had
                        as much charm as anything in this world can well have. He had at this time
                        absolutely no cares or financial  worries of
                        any kind, and this plus his health, self-amusing disposition and talent for
                        entertaining, made him a most fascinating figure to contemplate.
                    My first recollection of him is of myself as a boy of ten and he a man of
                        twenty-five (my oldest brother). He had come back to the town in which we
                        were then living solely to find his mother and help her. Six or seven years
                        before he had left without any explanation as to where he was going, tired
                        of or irritated by the routine of a home which for any genuine opportunity
                        it offered him might as well never have existed. It was run dominantly by my
                        father in the interest of religious and moral theories, with which this boy
                        had little sympathy. He was probably not understood by any one save my
                        mother, who understood or at least sympathized with us all. Placed in a
                        school which was to turn him out a priest, he had decamped, and now seven
                        years later was here in this small town, with fur coat and silk hat, a smart
                        canea gentleman of the theatrical profession. He had joined a minstrel show
                        somewhere and had become an "end-man." He had suspected
                        that we were not as fortunate in this world's goods as might be and
                        so had returned. His really great heart had called him.
                    But the thing which haunts me, and which was typical of him then as
                        throughout life, was the spirit which he then possessed and conveyed. It was
                        one of an agile geniality, unmarred by thought of a serious character but
                        warm and genuinely tender and with a taste for simple beauty which was most
                        impressive. He was already the author of a cheap song-book, "The Paul Dresser Songster" ("All the
                        Songs Sung in the Show"), and some copies of this he had with him,
                        one of which he gave me. But we having no musical instrument of and kind, he
                        taught me some of the melodies "by ear." The home in which
                        by force of poverty we were compelled to live was most unprepossessing and
                        inconvenient, and the result  of his coming
                        could but be our request for, or at least the obvious need of, assistance.
                        Still he was as much an enthusiastic part of it as though he belonged to it.
                        He was happy in it, and the cause of his happiness was my mother, of whom he
                        was intensely fond. I recall how he hung about her in the kitchen or
                        wherever she happened to be, how enthusiastically he related all his plans
                        for the future, his amusing difficulties in the past. He was very grand and
                        youthfully self-important, or so we all thought, and still he patted her on
                        the shoulder or put his arm about her and kissed her. Until she died years
                        later she was truly his uppermost thought, crying with her at times over her
                        troubles and his. He contributed regularly to her support and sent home all
                        his cast-off clothing to be made over for the younger ones. (Bless her tired
                        hands!)
                    As I look back now on my life, I realize quite clearly that of all the
                        members of my family, subsequent to my mother's death, the only one
                        who truly understood me, or, better yet, sympathized with my intellectual
                        and artistic point of view, was, strange as it may seem, this same Paul, my
                        dearest brother. Not that he was in any way fitted intellectually or
                        otherwise to enjoy high forms of art and learning and so guide me, or that
                        he understood, even in later years (long after I had written
                        "Sister Carrie," for instance), what it was that I was
                        attempting to do; he never did. His world was that of the popular song, the
                        middle-class actor or comedian, the middle-class comedy, and such humorous
                        sthetes of the writing world as Bill Nye, Petroleum V. Nasby, the authors of
                        the Spoopendyke Papers, and "Samantha at Saratoga." As far
                        as I could make outand I say this in no lofty, condescending spirit, by any
                        meanshe was entirely full of simple, middle-class romance, middle-class
                        humor, middle-class tenderness and middle-class grossness, all of which I am
                        very free to say early disarmed and won me completely and kept me so much
                        his debtor that I should hesitate to  try to
                        acknowledge or explain all that he did for or meant to me.
                    Imagine, if you can, a man weighing all of three hundred pounds, not more
                        than five feet ten-and-one-half inches in height and yet of so lithesome a
                        build that he gave not the least sense of either undue weight or lethargy.
                        His temperament, always ebullient and radiant, presented him as a clever,
                        eager, cheerful, emotional and always highly illusioned person with so
                        collie-like a warmth that one found him compelling interest and even
                        admiration. Easily cost down at times by the most trivial matters, at
                        others, and for the most part, he was so spirited and bubbly and emotional
                        and sentimental that your fiercest or most gloomy intellectual rages or
                        moods could scarcely withstand his smile. This tenderness or sympathy of
                        his, a very human appreciation of the weaknesses and errors as well as the
                        toils and tribulations of most of us, was by far his outstanding and most
                        engaging quality, and gave him a very definite force and charm. Admitting,
                        as I freely do, that he was very sensuous (gross, some people might have
                        called him), that he had an intense, possibly an undue fondness for women, a
                        frivolous, childish, horse-playish sense of humor at times, still he had
                        other qualities which were absolutely adorable. Life seemed positively to
                        spring up fountain-like in him. One felt in him a capacity to do (in his
                        possibly limited field); an ability to achieve, whether he was doing so at
                        the moment or not, and a supreme willingness to share and radiate his
                        successqualities exceedingly rare, I believe. Some people are so successful,
                        and yet you know their success is purely selfishexclusive, not inclusive;
                        they never permit you to share in their lives. Not so my good brother. He
                        was generous to the point of self-destruction, and that is literally true.
                        He was the mark if not the prey of all those who desired much or little for
                        nothing, those who previously might not have rendered him a service  of any kind. He was all life and color, and
                        thousands (I use the word with care) noted and commented on it.
                    When I first came to New York he was easily the foremost popular song-writer
                        of the day and was the cause of my coming, so soon at least, having
                        established himself in the publishing field and being so comfortably settled
                        as to offer me a kind of anchorage in so troubled a commercial sea. I was
                        very much afraid of New York, but with him here it seemed not so bad. The
                        firm of which he was a part had a floor or two in an old residence turned
                        office building, as so many are in New York, in Twentieth Street very close
                        to Broadway, and here, during the summer months (1894-7) when the various
                        theatrical road-companies, one of which he was always a part, had returned
                        for the closed season, he was to be found aiding his concern in the
                        reception and care of possible applicants for songs and attracting by his
                        personality such virtuosi of the vaudeville and comedy stage as were likely
                        to make the instrumental publications of his firm a success.
                    I may as well say here that he had no more business skill than a fly. At the
                        same time, he was in no wise sycophantic where either wealth, power or fame
                        was concerned. He considered himself a personage of sorts, and was. The
                        minister, the moralist, the religionist, the narrow, dogmatic and
                        self-centered in any field were likely to be the butt of his humor, and he
                        could imitate so many phases of character so cleverly that he was the life
                        of any idle pleasure-seeking party anywhere. To this day I recall his
                        characterization of an old Irish washerwoman arguing; a stout, truculent
                        German laying down the law; lean, gloomy, out-at-elbows actors of the Hamlet
                        or classic school complaining of their fate; the stingy skinflint haggling
                        over a dollar, and always with a skill for titillating the risibilities
                        which is vivid to me even to this day. Other butts of his humor were the
                        actor, the Irish day-laborer, the negro and the Hebrew. And how he  could imitate them! It is useless to try to
                        indicate such things in writing, the facial expression, the intonation, the
                        gestures; these are not things of words. Perhaps I can best indicate the
                        direction of his mind, if not his manner, by the following:
                    One night as we were on our way to a theater there stood on a nearby corner
                        in the cold a blind man singing and at the same time holding out a little
                        tin cup into which the coins of the charitably inclined were supposed to be
                        dropped. At once my brother noticed him, for he had an eye for this sort of
                        thing, the pathos of poverty as opposed to so gay a scene, the street with
                        its hurrying theater crowds. At the same time, so inherently mischievous was
                        his nature that although his sympathy for the suffering or the ill-used of
                        fate was overwhelming, he could not resist combining his intended charity
                        with a touch of the ridiculous.
                    "Got any pennies?" he demanded.
                    "Three or four."
                    Going over to an outdoor candystand he exchanged a quarter for pennies, then
                        came back and waited until the singer, who had ceased singing, should begin
                        a new melody. A custom of the singer's, since the song was of no
                        import save as a means of attracting attention to him, was to interpolate a
                        "Thank you" after each coin dropped in his cup and between
                        the words of the song, regardless. It was this little idiosyncrasy which
                        evidently had attracted my brother's attention, although it had not
                        mine. Standing quite close, his pennies in his hand, he waited until the
                        singer had resumed, then began dropping pennies, waiting each time for the
                        "Thank you," which caused the song to go about as follows:
                    "Da-a-'ling" (Clink!"Thank
                        you!") "I am" (Clink!"Thank
                        you!") "growing o-o-o-ld" (Clink!"Thank
                        you!"), "Silve-e-r" (Clink!"Thank
                        you!") "threads among the" (Clink!"Thank
                        you!") "go-o-o-ld" (Clink! "Thank
                        you!"). "Shine upon my-y" (Clink!"Thank
                             you!") "bro-o-ow
                        toda-a-y" (Clink!"Thank you!"), "Life
                        is" (Clink!"Thank you!") "fading fast
                        a-a-wa-a-ay" (Clink!"Thank you!")and so on ad
                        infinitum, until finally the beggar himself seemed to hesitate a little and
                        waver, only so solemn was his rle of want and despair that of course he
                        dared not but had to go on until the last penny was in, and until he was
                        saying more "Thank yous" than words of the song. A
                        passerby noticing it had begun to "Haw-haw!", at which
                        others joined in, myself included. The beggar himself, a rather sniveling
                        specimen, finally realizing what a figure he was cutting with his song and
                        thanks, emptied the coins into his hand and with an indescribably wry
                        expression, half-uncertainty and half-smile, exclaimed,
                        "I'll have to thank you as long as you keep putting
                        pennies in, I suppose. God bless you!"
                    My brother came away smiling and content.
                    However, it is not as a humorist or song-writer or publisher that I wish to
                        portray him, but as an odd, lovable personality, possessed of so many
                        interesting and peculiar and almost indescribable traits. Of all characters
                        in fiction he perhaps most suggests Jack Falstaff, with his love of women,
                        his bravado and bluster and his innate good nature and sympathy. Sympathy
                        was really his outstanding characteristic, even more than humor, although
                        the latter was always present. One might recite a thousand incidents of his
                        generosity and out-of-hand charity, which contained no least thought of
                        return or reward. I recall that once there was a boy who had been reared in
                        one of the towns in which we had once lived who had never had a chance in
                        his youth, educationally or in any other way, and, having turned out
                        "bad" and sunk to the level of a bank robber, had been
                        detected in connection with three other men in the act of robbing a bank,
                        the watchman of which was subsequently killed in the mle and escape. Of all
                        four criminals only this one had been caught. Somewhere  in prison he had heard sung one of my brother's
                        sentimental ballads, "The Convict and the Bird," and
                        recollecting that he had known Paul wrote him, setting forth his life
                        history and that now he had no money or friends.
                    At once my good brother was alive to the pathos of it. He showed the letter
                        to me and wanted to know what could be done. I suggested a lawyer, of
                        course, one of those brilliant legal friends of hisalways he had
                        enthusiastic admirers in all walkswho might take the case for little or
                        nothing. There was the leader of Tammany Hall, Richard Croker, who could be
                        reached, he being a friend of Paul's. There was the Governor
                        himself to whom a plain recitation of the boy's unfortunate life
                        might be addressed, and with some hope of profit.
                    All of these things he did, and more. He went to the prison (Sing Sing), saw
                        the warden and told him the story of the boy's life, then went to
                        the boy, or man, himself and gave him some money. He was introduced to the
                        Governor through influential friends and permitted to tell the tale. There
                        was much delay, a reprieve, a commutation of the death penalty to life
                        imprisonmentthe best that could be done. But he was so grateful for that, so
                        pleased. You would have thought at the time that it was his own life that
                        had been spared.
                    "Good heavens!" I jested. "You'd think
                        you'd done the man an inestimable service, getting him in the
                        penitentiary for life!"
                    "That's right," he grinnedan unbelievably
                        provoking smile. "He'd better be dead, wouldn't
                        he? Well, I'll write and ask him which he'd rather
                        have."
                    I recall again taking him to task for going to the rescue of a "down
                        and out" actor who had been highly successful and apparently not
                        very sympathetic in his day, one of that more or less gaudy clan that wastes
                        its substance, or so it seemed to me then, in riotous living. But now being
                        old and  entirely discarded and forgotten, he
                        was in need of sympathy and aid. By some chance he knew Paul, or Paul had
                        known him, and now because of the former's obvious prosperityhe was
                        much in the papers at the timehe had appealed to him. The man lived with a
                        sister in a wretched little town far out on Long Island. On receiving his
                        appeal Paul seemed to wish to investigate for himself, possibly to indulge
                        in a little lofty romance or sentiment. At any rate he wanted me to go along
                        for the sake of companionship, so one dreary November afternoon we went, saw
                        the pantaloon, who did not impress me very much even in his age and misery
                        for he still had a few of his theatrical manners and insincerities, and as
                        we were coming away I said, "Paul, why should you be the goat in
                        every case?" for I had noted ever since I had been in New York,
                        which was several years then, that he was a victim of many such
                        importunities. If it was not the widow of a deceased friend who needed a ton
                        of coal or a sack of flour, or the reckless, headstrong boy of parents too
                        poor to save him from a term in jail or the reformatory and who asked for
                        fine-money or an appeal to higher powers for clemency, or a wastrel actor or
                        actress "down and out" and unable to "get back to
                        New York" and requiring his or her railroad fare wired prepaid, it
                        was the dead wastrel actor or actress who needed a coffin and a decent form
                        of burial.
                    "Well, you know how it is, Thee" (he nearly always
                        addressed me thus), "when you're old and sick. As long as
                        you're up and around and have money, everybody's your
                        friend. But once you're down and out no one wants to see you any
                        moresee?" Almost amusingly he was always sad over those who had
                        once been prosperous but who were now old and forgotten. Some of his
                        silliest tender songs conveyed as much.
                    "Quite so," I complained, rather brashly, I suppose,
                        "but why didn't he save a little money when he had it? He
                        made  as much as you'll ever
                        make." The man had been a star. "He had plenty of it,
                        didn't he? Why should he come to you?"
                    "Well, you know how it is, Thee," he explained in the
                        kindliest and most apologetic way. "When you're young and
                        healthy like that you don't think. I know how it is; I'm
                        that way myself. We all have a little of it in us. I have; you have. And
                        anyhow youth's the time to spend money if you're to get
                        any good of it, isn't it? Of course when you're old you
                        can't expect much, but still I always feel as though I'd
                        like to help some of these old people." His eyes at such times
                        always seemed more like those of a mother contemplating a sick or injured
                        child than those of a man contemplating life.
                    "But, Paul," I insisted on another occasion when he had
                        just wired twenty-five dollars somewhere to help bury some one. (My spirit
                        was not so niggardly as fearsome. I was constantly terrified in those days
                        by the thought of a poverty-stricken old age for myself and himwhy, I
                        don't know. I was by no means incompetent.) "Why
                        don't you save your money? Why should you give it to every Tom,
                        Dick and Harry that asks you? You're not a charity organization,
                        and you're not called upon to feed and clothe and bury all the
                        wasters who happen to cross your path. If you were down and out how many do
                        you suppose would help you?"
                    "Well, you know," and his voice and manner were largely
                        those of mother, the same wonder, the same wistfulness and sweetness, the
                        same bubbling charity and tenderness of heart, "I can't
                        say I haven't got it, can I?" He was at the height of his
                        success at the time. "And anyhow, what's the use being so
                        hard on people? We're all likely to get that way. You
                        don't know what pulls people down sometimesnot wasting always.
                        It's thoughtlessness, or trying to be happy. Remember how poor we
                        were and how mamma and papa used to worry." Often these references
                        to mother or father or their difficulties 
                        would bring tears to his eyes. "I can't stand to see
                        people suffer, that's all, not if I have anything," and
                        his eyes glowed sweetly. "And, after all," he added
                        apologetically, "the little I give isn't much. They
                        don't get so much out of me. They don't come to me every
                        day."
                    Another timeone Christmas Eve it was, when I was comparatively new to New
                        York (my second or third year), I was a little uncertain what to do, having
                        no connections outside of Paul and two sisters, one of whom was then out of
                        the city. The other, owing to various difficulties of her own and a
                        temporary estrangement from usmore our fault than herswas therefore not
                        available. The rather drab state into which she had allowed her marital
                        affections to lead her was the main reason that kept us apart. At any rate I
                        felt that I could not, or rather would not, go there. At the same time,
                        owing to some difficulty or irritation with the publishing house of which my
                        brother was then part owner (it was publishing the magazine which I was
                        editing), we twain were also estranged, nothing very deep reallya temporary
                        feeling of distance and indifference.
                    So I had no place to go except to my room, which was in a poor part of the
                        town, or out to dine where best I mightsome moderate-priced hotel, was my
                        thought. I had not seen my brother in three or four days, but after I had
                        strolled a block or two up Broadway I encountered him. I have always thought
                        that he had kept an eye on me and had really followed me; was looking, in
                        short, to see what I would do. As usual he was most smartly and comfortably
                        dressed.
                    "Where you going, Thee?" he called cheerfully.
                    "Oh, no place in particular," I replied rather suavely, I
                        presume. "Just going up the street."
                    "Now, see here, sport," he begana favorite expression of
                        his, "sport"with his face abeam, "what's
                        the use you and  me quarreling? It's
                        Christmas Eve, ain't it? It's a shame! Come on,
                        let's have a drink and then go out to dinner."
                    "Well," I said, rather uncompromisingly, for at times his
                        seemingly extreme success and well-being irritated me,
                        "I'll have a drink, but as for dinner I have another
                        engagement."
                    "Aw, don't say that. What's the use being sore?
                        You know I always feel the same even if we do quarrel at times. Cut it out.
                        Come on. You know I'm your brother, and you're mine.
                        It's all right with me, Thee. Let's make it up, will you?
                        Put 'er there! Come on, now. We'll go and have a drink,
                        but as for dinner I have another engagement." The old home
                        stuff."
                    He smiled winsomely, coaxingly, really tenderly, as only he could smile. I
                        "gave in." But now as we entered the nearest shining bar,
                        a Christmas crowd buzzing within and without (it was the old Fifth Avenue
                        Hotel), a new thought seemed to strike him.
                    "Seen E lately?" he inquired, mentioning the name of the
                        troubled sister who was having a very hard time indeed. Her husband had left
                        her and she was struggling over the care of two children.
                    "No," I replied, rather shamefacedly, "not in a
                        week or twomaybe more."
                    He clicked his tongue. He himself had not been near her in a month or more.
                        His face fell, and he looked very depressed.
                    "It's too bada shame really. We oughtn't to do
                        this way, you know, sport. It ain't right. What do you say to our
                        going around there," it was in the upper thirties, "and
                        see how she's making out?take her a few things, eh? Whaddya
                        say?"
                    I hadn't a spare dollar myself, but I knew well enough what he meant
                        by "take a few things" and who would pay for them.
                    
                    "Well, we'll have to hurry if we want to get anything
                        now," I urged, falling in with the idea since it promised peace,
                        plenty and good will all around, and we rushed the drink and departed. Near
                        at hand was a branch of one of the greatest grocery companies of the city,
                        and near it, too, his then favorite hotel, the Continental. En route we
                        meditated on the impossibility of delivery, the fact that we would have to
                        carry the things ourselves, but he at last solved that by declaring that he
                        could commandeer negro porters or bootblacks from the Continental. We
                        entered, and by sheer smiles on his part and some blarney heaped upon a
                        floor-manager, secured a turkey, sweet potatoes, peas, beans, a salad, a
                        strip of bacon, a ham, plum pudding, a basket of luscious fruit and I know
                        not what elseprovender, I am sure, for a dozen meals. While it was being
                        wrapped and packed in borrowed baskets, soon to be returned, he went across
                        the way to the hotel and came back with three grinning darkies who for the
                        tip they knew they would receive preceded us up Broadway, the nearest path
                        to our destination. On the way a few additional things were picked up: holly
                        wreaths, toys, candy, nutsand then, really not knowing whether our plan
                        might not miscarry, we made our way through the side street and to the
                        particular apartment, or, rather, flat-house, door, a most amusing Christmas
                        procession, I fancy, wondering and worrying now whether she would be there.
                    But the door clicked in answer to our ring, and up we marched, the three
                        darkies first, instructed to inquire for her and then insist on leaving the
                        goods, while we lagged behind to see how she would take it.
                    The stage arrangement worked as planned. My sister opened the door and from
                        the steps below we could hear her protesting that she had ordered nothing,
                        but the door being open the negroes walked in and a moment or two afterwards
                        ourselves. The packages were being piled on table and floor,  while my sister, unable quite to grasp this
                        sudden visitation and change of heart, stared.
                    "Just thought we'd come around and have supper with you, E,
                        and maybe dinner tomorrow if you'll let us," my brother
                        chortled. "Merry Christmas, you know. Christmas Eve. The good old
                        home stuffsee? Old sport here and I thought we couldn't stay
                        awaytonight, anyhow."
                    He beamed on her in his most affectionate way, but she, suffering regret over
                        the recent estrangement as well as the difficulties of life itself and the
                        joy of this reunion, burst into tears, while the two little ones danced
                        about, and he and I put our arms about her.
                    "There, there! It's all over now," he declared,
                        tears welling in his eyes. "It's all off. We'll
                        can this scrapping stuff. Thee and I are a couple of bums and we know it,
                        but you can forgive us, can't you? We ought to be ashamed of
                        ourselves, all of us, and that's the truth. We've been
                        quarreling, too, haven't spoken for a week. Ain't that so,
                        sport? But it's all right now, eh?"
                    There were tears in my eyes, too. One couldn't resist him. He had
                        the power of achieving the tenderest results in the simplest ways. We then
                        had supper, and breakfast the next morning, all staying and helping, even to
                        the washing and drying of the dishes, and thereafter for I don't
                        know how long we were all on the most affectionate terms, and he eventually
                        died in this sister's home, ministered to with absolutely restless
                        devotion by her for weeks before the end finally came.
                    But, as I have said, I always prefer to think of him at this, the very apex
                        or tower window of his life. For most of this period he was gay and
                        carefree. The music company of which he was a third owner was at the very
                        top of its success. Its songs, as well as his, were everywhere. He had in
                        turn at this time a suite at the Gilsey House, the Marlborough, the
                        Normandiealways on Broadway, you see. The 
                        limelight district was his home. He rose in the morning to the clang of the
                        cars and the honk of the automobiles outside; he retired at night as a gang
                        of repair men under flaring torches might be repairing a track, or the milk
                        trucks were rumbling to and from the ferries. He was in his way a public
                        restaurant and hotel favorite, a shining light in the theater
                        managers' offices, hotel bars and lobbies and wherever those flies
                        of the Tenderloin, those passing lords and celebrities of the sporting,
                        theatrical, newspaper and other worlds, are wont to gather. One of his
                        intimates, as I now recall, was "Bat" Masterson, the
                        Western and now retired (to Broadway!) bad man; Muldoon, the famous
                        wrestler; Tod Sloane, the jockey; "Battling" Nelson; James
                        J. Corbett; Kid McCoy; Terry McGovernprize-fighters all. Such Tammany
                        district leaders as James Murphy, "The" McManus, Chrystie
                        and Timothy Sullivan, Richard Carroll, and even Richard Croker, the then
                        reigning Tammany boss, were all on his visiting list. He went to their
                        meetings, rallies and district doings generally to sing and play, and they
                        came to his "office" occasionally. Various high and
                        mighties of the Roman Church, "fathers" with fine parishes
                        and good wine cellars, and judges of various municipal courts, were also of
                        his peculiar world. He was always running to one or the other "to
                        get somebody out," or they to him to get him to contribute
                        something to something, or to sing and play or act, and betimes they were
                        meeting each other in hotel grills or elsewhere and having a drink and
                        telling "funny stories."
                    Apropos of this sense of humor of his, this love of horseplay almost, I
                        remember that once he had a new story to tella vulgar one of courseand with
                        it he had been making me and a dozen others laugh until the tears coursed
                        down our cheeks. It seemed new to everybody and, true to his rather
                        fantastic moods, he was determined to be the first to tell it along
                        Broadway. For some reason he was anxious to have  me go along with him, possibly because he found me at that time an
                        unvarying fountain of approval and laughter, possibly because he liked to
                        show me off as his rising brother, as he insisted that I was. At between six
                        and seven of a spring or summer evening, therefore, we issued from his suite
                        at the Gilsey House, whither he had returned to dress, and invading the bar
                        below were at once centered among a group who knew him. A whiskey, a cigar,
                        the story told to one, two, three, five, ten to roars of laughter, and we
                        were off, over the way to Weber & Fields (the Musical Burlesque
                        House Supreme of those days) in the same block, where to the ticket seller
                        and house manager, both of whom he knew, it was told. More laughter, a cigar
                        perhaps. Then we were off again, this time to the ticket seller of
                        Palmer's Theater at Thirtieth Street, thence to the bar of the
                        Grand Hotel at Thirty-first, the Imperial at Thirty-second, the Martinique
                        at Thirty-third, a famous drug-store at the southwest corner of
                        Thirty-fourth and Broadway, now gone of course, the manager of which was a
                        friend of his. It was a warm, moony night, and he took a glass of vichy
                        "for looks' sake," as he said.
                    Then to the quondom Hotel Aulic at Thirty-fifth and Broadwaythe center and
                        home of the then much-berated "Hotel Aulic or Actors'
                        School of Philosophy," and a most impressive actors'
                        rendezvous where might have been seen in the course of an evening all the
                        "second leads" and "light comedians" and
                        "heavies" of this, that and the other road company, all
                        blazing with startling clothes and all explaining how they "knocked
                        'em" here and there: in Peoria, Pasadena, Walla-Walla and
                        where not. My brother shone like a star when only one is in the sky.
                    Over the way then to the Herald Building, its owls' eyes glowing in
                        the night, its presses thundering, the elevated thundering beside it. Here
                        was a business manager whom he knew. Then to the Herald Square Theater on
                        the opposite  side of the street, ablaze with a
                        small electric signamong the newest in the city. In this, as in the business
                        office of the Herald was another manager, and he knew them
                        all. Thence to the Marlborough bar and lobby at Thirty-sixth, the
                        manager's office of the Knickerbocker Theater at Thirty-eighth,
                        stopping at the bar and lobby of the Normandie, where some blazing
                        professional beauty of the stage waylaid him and exchanged theatrical
                        witticisms with himand what else? Thence to the manager's office of
                        the Casino at Thirty-ninth, some bar which was across the street, another in
                        Thirty-ninth west of Broadway, an Italian restaurant on the ground floor of
                        the Metropolitan at Fortieth and Broadway, and at last but by no means least
                        and by such slow stages to the very door of the then Mecca of Meccas of all
                        theater and sportdom, the sanctum sanctorum of all those sportively au fait,
                        "wise," the "real thing"the Hotel
                        Metropole at Broadway and Forty-second Street, the then extreme northern
                        limit of the white-light district. And what a realm! Rounders and what not
                        were here ensconced at round tables, their backs against the
                        leather-cushioned wall seats, the adjoining windows open to all Broadway and
                        the then all but somber Forty-second Street.
                    It was wonderful, the loud clothes, the bright straw hats, the canes, the
                        diamonds, the "hot" socks, the air of security and
                        well-being, so easily assumed by those who gain an all too brief hour in
                        this pretty, petty world of make-believe and pleasure and pseudo-fame. Among
                        them my dearest brother was at his best. It was "Paul"
                        here and "Paul" there"Why, hello, Dresser,
                        you're just in time! Come on in. What'll you have? Let me
                        tell you something, Paul, a good one" More drinks, cigars,
                        talesmagnificent tales of successes made, "great shows"
                        given, fights, deaths, marvelous winnings at cards, trickeries in racing,
                        prize-fighting; the "dogs" that some people were, the
                        magnificent, magnanimous "God's own  salt" that others were. The oaths, stories of women,
                        what low, vice-besmeared, crime-soaked ghoulas certain reigning beauties of
                        the town or stage wereand so on and so on ad infinitum.
                    But his story?ah, yes. I had all but forgotten. It was told in every place,
                        not once but seven, eight, nine, ten times. We did not eat until we reached
                        the Metropole, and it was ten-thirty when we reached it! The handshakes, the
                        road stories "This is my brother Theodore. He writes; he's
                        a newspaper man." The roars of laughter, the drinks! "Ah,
                        my boy, that's good, but let me tell you oneone that I heard out in
                        Louisville the other day." A seedy, shabby ne'er-do-well
                        of a song-writer maybe stopping the successful author in the midst of a tale
                        to borrow a dollar. Another actor, shabby and distrait, reciting the sad
                        tale of a year's misfortunes. Everywhere my dear brother was called
                        to, slapped on the back, chuckled with. He was successful. One of his best
                        songs was the rage, he had an interest in a going musical concern, he could
                        confer benefits, favors.
                    Ah, me! Ah, me! That one could be so great, and that it should not last for
                        ever and for ever!
                    Another of his outstanding characteristics was his love of women, a really
                        amusing and at times ridiculous quality. He was always sighing over the
                        beauty, innocence, sweetness, this and that, of young maidenhood in his
                        songs, but in real life he seemed to desire and attract quite a different
                        typethe young and beautiful, it is true, but also the old, the homely and
                        the somewhat savagea catholicity of taste I could never quite stomach. It
                        was "Paul dearest" here and "Paul
                        dearest" there, especially in his work in connection with the
                        music-house and the stage. In the former, popular ballad singers of both
                        sexes, some of the women most attractive and willful, were most numerous,
                        coming in daily from all parts of the world apparently to find songs which
                        they could sing on the American or even the English stage. And it was a part
                        of  his duty, as a member of the firm and the
                        one who principally "handled" the so-called professional
                        inquirers, to meet them and see that they were shown what the catalogue
                        contained. Occasionally there was an aspiring female song-writer, often mere
                        women visitors.
                    Regardless, however, of whether they were young, old, attractive or
                        repulsive, male or female, I never knew any one whose manner was more
                        uniformly winsome or who seemed so easily to disarm or relax an indifferent
                        or irritated mood. He was positive sunshine, the same in quality as that of
                        a bright spring morning. His blue eyes focused mellowly, his lips were
                        tendrilled with smiles. He had a brisk, quick manner, always somehow
                        suggestive of my mother, who was never brisk.
                    And how he fascinated them, the women! Their quite shameless daring where he
                        was concerned! Positively, in the face of it I used to wonder what had
                        become of all the vaunted and so-called "stabilizing
                        morality" of the world. None of it seemed to be in the possession
                        of these women, especially the young and beautiful. They were distant and
                        freezing enough to all who did not interest them, but let a personality such
                        as his come into view and they were all wiles, bending and alluring graces.
                        It was so obvious, this fascination he had for them and they for him, that
                        at times it took on a comic look.
                    "Get onto the hit he's making," one would nudge
                        another and remark.
                    "Say, some tenderness, that!" This in reference to a smile
                        or a melting glance on the part of a female.
                    "Nothing like a way with the ladies. Some baby, eh,
                        boys?"this following the flick of a skirt and a backward-tossed
                        glance perhaps, as some noticeable beauty passed out.
                    "No wonder he's cheerful," a sour and yet
                        philosophic vaudevillian, who was mostly out of a job and hung about the  place for what free meals he could obtain,
                        once remarked to me in a heavy and morose undertone. "If I had that
                        many women crazy about me I'd be too."
                    And the results of these encounters with beauty! Always he had something most
                        important to attend to, morning, noon or night, and whenever I encountered
                        him after some such statement "the important thing" was,
                        of course, a woman. As time went on and he began to look upon me as
                        something more than a thin, spindling, dyspeptic and disgruntled youth, he
                        began to wish to introduce me to some of his marvelous followers, and then I
                        could see how completely dependent upon beauty in the flesh he was, how it
                        made his life and world.
                    One day as we were all sitting in the office, a large group of vaudevillians,
                        song-writers, singers, a chance remark gave rise to a subsequent practical
                        joke at Paul's expense. "I'll bet,"
                        observed some one, "that if a strange man were to rush in here with
                        a revolver and say, 'Where's the man that seduced my
                        wife?' Paul would be the first to duck. He wouldn't wait
                        to find out whether he was the one meant or not."
                    Much laughter followed, and some thought. The subject of this banter was, of
                        course, not present at the time. There was one actor who hung about there
                        who was decidedly skillful in make-up. On more than one occasion he had
                        disguised himself there in the office for our benefit. Cooperating with us,
                        he disguised himself now as a very severe and even savage-looking person of
                        about thirty-fiveside-burns, mustachios and goatee. Then, with our aid,
                        timing his arrival to an hour when Paul was certain to be at his desk, he
                        entered briskly and vigorously and, looking about with a savage air,
                        demanded, "Where is Paul Dresser?"
                    The latter turned almost apprehensively, I thought, and at once seemed by no
                        means captivated by the man's looks.
                    
                    "That's Mr. Dresser there," explained one of the
                        confederates most willingly.
                    The stranger turned and glared at him. "So you're the
                        scoundrel that's been running around with my wife, are
                        you?" he demanded, approaching him and placing one hand on his
                        right hip.
                    Paul made no effort to explain. It did not occur to him to deny the
                        allegation, although he had never seen the man before. With a rising and
                        backward movement he fell against the rail behind him, lifting both hands in
                        fright and exclaiming, "WhywhyDon't shoot!" His
                        expression was one of guilt, astonishment, perplexity. As some one
                        afterwards said. "As puzzled as if he was trying to discover which
                        injured husband it might be." The shout that went upfor it was
                        agreed beforehand that the joke must not be carried farconvinced him that a
                        hoax had been perpetrated, and the removal by the actor of his hat,
                        sideburns and mustache revealed the true character of the injured husband.
                        At first inclined to be angry and sulky, later on he saw the humor of his
                        own indefinite position in the matter and laughed as heartily as any. But I
                        fancy it developed a strain of uncertainty in him also in regard to injured
                        husbands, for he was never afterwards inclined to interest himself in the
                        much-married, and gave such wives a wide berth.
                    But his great forte was of course his song-writing, and of this, before I
                        speak of anything else, I wish to have my say. It was a gift, quite a
                        compelling one, out of which, before he died, he had made thousands, all
                        spent in the manner described. Never having the least power to interpret
                        anything in a fine musical way, still he was always full of music of a
                        tender, sometimes sad, sometimes gay, kindthat of the ballad-maker of a
                        nation. He was constantly attempting to work them out of himself, not
                        quickly but slowly, brooding as it were over the piano wherever he might
                        find one and could  have a little solitude, at
                        times on the organ (his favorite instrument), improvising various sad or
                        wistful strains, some of which he jotted down, others of which, having
                        mastered, he strove to fit words to. At such times he preferred to be alone
                        or with some one whose temperament in no way clashed but rather harmonized
                        with his own. Living with one of my sisters for a period of years, he had a
                        room specially fitted up for his composing work, a very small room for so
                        very large a man, within which he would shut himself and thrum a melody by
                        the hour, especially toward evening or at night. He seemed to have a
                        peculiar fondness for the twilight hour, and at this time might thrum over
                        one strain and another until over some particular one, a new song usually,
                        he would be in tears!
                    And what pale little things they were really, mere bits and scraps of
                        sentiment and melodrama in story form, most asinine sighings over home and
                        mother and lost sweethearts and dead heroes such as never were in real life,
                        and yet with something about them, in the music at least, which always
                        appealed to me intensely and must have appealed to others, since they
                        attained so wide a circulation. They bespoke, as I always felt, a wistful,
                        seeking, uncertain temperament, tender and illusioned, with no practical
                        knowledge of any side of life, but full of a true poetic feeling for the
                        mystery and pathos of life and death, the wonder of the waters, the stars,
                        the flowers, accidents of life, success, failure. Beginning with a song
                        called "Wide Wings" (published by a small retail
                        music-house in Evansville, Indiana), and followed by such national successes
                        as "The Letter That Never Came," "I Believe It,
                        For My Mother Told Me So" (!), "The Convict and the
                        Bird," "The Pardon Came Too Late," "Just
                        Tell Them That You Saw Me," "The Blue and the
                        Grey," "On the Bowery," "On the Banks of
                        the Wabash," and a number of others, he was never content to rest
                        and never really happy, I think, save when composing. During this time,
                        however, he was at different  periods all the
                        things I have describeda black-face monologue artist, an end- and at times a
                        middle-man, a publisher, and so on.
                    I recall being with him at the time he composed two of his most famous
                        successes: "Just Tell Them That You Saw Me," and
                        "On the Banks of the Wabash," and noting his peculiar
                        mood, almost amounting to a deep depression which ended a little later in
                        marked elation or satisfaction, once he had succeeded in evoking something
                        which really pleased him.
                    The first of these songs must have followed an actual encounter with some
                        woman or girl whose life had seemingly if not actually gone to wreck on the
                        shore of love or passion. At any rate he came into the office of his
                        publishing house one gray November Sunday afternoonit was our custom to go
                        there occasionally, a dozen or more congenial souls, about as one might go
                        to a cluband going into a small room which was fitted up with a piano as a
                        "try-out" room (professionals desiring a song were
                        frequently taught it in the office), he began improvising, or rather
                        repeating over and over, a certain strain which was evidently in his mind. A
                        little while later he came out and said, "Listen to this, will you,
                        Thee?"
                    He played and sang the first verse and chorus. In the middle of the latter,
                        so moved was he by the sentiment of it, his voice broke and he had to stop.
                        Tears stood in his eyes and he wiped them away. A moment or two later he was
                        able to go through it without wavering and I thought it charming for the
                        type of thing it was intended to be. Later on (the following spring) I was
                        literally astonished to see how, after those various efforts usually made by
                        popular music publishers to make a song "go"advertising it
                        in the Clipper and Mirror, getting
                        various vaudeville singers to sing it, and so forthit suddenly began to
                        sell, thousands upon thousands of copies being wrapped in great bundles
                        under my very eyes and shipped express or freight to various parts of the
                        country.
                    
                    Letters and telegrams, even, from all parts of the nation began to pour
                        in"Forward express todaycopies of Dresser's 'Tell
                        Them That You Saw Me.'" The firm was at once as busy as a
                        bee-hive, on "easy street" again, as the expression went,
                        "in clover." Just before this there had been a slight
                        slump in its business and in my brother's finances, but now once
                        more he was his most engaging self. Every one in that layer of life which
                        understands or takes an interest in popular songs and their creators knew of
                        him and his song, his latest success. He was, as it were, a revivified
                        figure on Broadway. His barbers, barkeepers, hotel clerks, theatrical
                        box-office clerks, hotel managers and the stars and singers of the street
                        knew of it and him. Some enterprising button firm got out a button on which
                        the phrase was printed. Comedians on the stage, newspaper paragraphers, his
                        bank teller or his tailor, even staid business men wishing to appear
                        "up-to-date," used it as a parting salute. The
                        hand-organs, the bands and the theater orchestras everywhere were using it.
                        One could scarcely turn a corner or go into a cheap music hall or variety
                        house without hearing a parody of it. It was wonderful, the enormous furore
                        that it seemed to create, and of course my dear brother was privileged to
                        wall, about smiling and secure, his bank account large, his friends
                        numerous, in the pink of health, and gloating over the fact that he was a
                        success, well known, a genuine creator of popular songs.
                    It was the same with "On the Banks of the Wabash," possibly
                        an even greater success, for it came eventually to be adopted by his native
                        State as its State song, and in that region streets and a town were named
                        after him. In an almost unintentional and unthinking way I had a hand in
                        that, and it has always cheered me to think that I had, although I have
                        never had the least talent for musical composition or song versification. It
                        was one of those delightful summer Sunday mornings (1896, I believe), when I
                        was still  connected with his firm as editor
                        of the little monthly they were issuing, and he and myself, living with my
                        sister Ethat we had gone over to this office to do a little work. I had a
                        number of current magazines I wished to examine; he was always wishing to
                        compose something, to express that ebullient and emotional soul of his in
                        some way.
                    "What do you suppose would make a good song these days?" he
                        asked in an idle, meditative mood, sitting at the piano and thrumming while
                        I at a nearby table was looking over my papers. "Why don't
                        you give me an idea for one once in a while, sport? You ought to be able to
                        suggest something."
                    "Me?" I queried, almost contemptuously, I suppose. I could
                        be very lofty at times in regard to his work, much as I admired himvain and
                        yet more or less dependent snip that I was. "I can't write
                        those things. Why don't you write something about a State or a
                        river? Look at 'My Old Kentucky Home,'
                        'Dixie,' 'Old Black Joe'why
                        don't you do something like that, something that suggests a part of
                        America? People like that. Take Indianawhat's the matter with itthe
                        Wabash River? It's as good as any other river, and you were
                        'raised' beside it."
                    I have to smile even now as I recall the apparent zest or feeling with which
                        all at once he seized on this. It seemed to appeal to him immensely.
                        "That's not a bad idea," he agreed, "but
                        how would you go about it? Why don't you write the words and let me
                        put the music to them? We'll do it together!"
                    "But I can't," I replied. "I
                        don't know how to do those things. You write it. I'll
                        helpmaybe."
                    After a little urgingI think the fineness of the morning had as much to do
                        with it as anythingI took a piece of paper and after meditating a while
                        scribbled in the most tentative manner imaginable the first verse and chorus
                        of that song almost as it was published. I think one or two lines were  too long or didn't rhyme, but
                        eventually either he or I hammered them into shape, but before that I rather
                        shamefacedly turned them over to him, for somehow I was convinced that this
                        work was not for me and that I was rather loftily and cynically attempting
                        what my good brother would do in all faith and feeling.
                    He read it, insisted that it was fine and that I should do a second verse,
                        something with a story in it, a girl perhapsa task which I solemnly
                        rejected.
                    "No, you put it in. It's yours. I'm
                        through."
                    Some time later, disagreeing with the firm as to the conduct of the magazine,
                        I leftreally was forced outwhich raised a little feeling on my part; not on
                        his, I am sure, for I was very difficult to deal with.
                    Time passed and I heard nothing. I had been able to succeed in a somewhat
                        different realm, that of the magazine contributor, and although I thought a
                        great deal of my brother I paid very little attention to him or his affairs,
                        being much more concerned with my own. One spring night, however, the
                        following year, as I was lying in my bed trying to sleep, I heard a
                        quartette of boys in the distance approaching along the street in which I
                        had my room. I could not make out the words at first but the melody at once
                        attracted my attention. It was plaintive and compelling. I listened,
                        attracted, satisfied that it was some new popular success that had
                        "caught on." As they drew near my window I heard the words
                        "On the Banks of the Wabash" most mellifluously
                        harmonized.
                    I jumped up. They were my words! It was Paul's song! He had another
                        "hit" then"On the Banks of the Wabash,"
                        and they were singing it in the streets already! I leaned out of the window
                        and listened as they approached and passed on, their arms about each
                        other's shoulders, the whole song being sung in the still street,
                        as it were, for my benefit. The  night was so
                        warm, delicious. A full moon was overhead. I was young, lonely, wistful. It
                        brought back so much of my already spent youth that I was ready to cryfor
                        joy principally. In three more months it was everywhere, in the papers, on
                        the stage, on the street-organs, played by orchestras, bands, whistled and
                        sung in the streets. One day on Broadway near the Marlborough. I met my
                        brother, gold-headed cane, silk shirt, a smart summer suit, a gay straw hat.
                    "Ah," I said, rather sarcastically, for I still felt peeved
                        that he had shown so little interest in my affairs at the time I was
                        leaving. "On the banks, I see."
                    "On the banks," he replied cordially. "You turned
                        the trick for me, Thee, that time. What are you doing now? Why
                        don't you ever come and see me? I'm still your brother,
                        you know. A part of that is really yours."
                    "Cut that!" I replied most savagely. "I
                        couldn't write a song like that in a million years. You know I
                        couldn't. The words are nothing."
                    "Oh, all right. It's true, though, you know. Where do you
                        keep yourself? Why don't you come and see me? Why be down on me? I
                        live here, you know." He looked up at the then brisk and successful
                        hotel.
                    "Well, maybe I will some time," I said distantly, but with
                        no particular desire to mend matters, and we parted.
                    There was, however, several years later, a sequel to all this and one so
                        characteristic of him that it has always remained in my mind as one of the
                        really beautiful things of life, and I might as well tell it here and now.
                        About five years later I had become so disappointed in connection with my
                        work and the unfriendly pressure of life that I had suffered what
                        subsequently appeared to have been a purely psychic breakdown or relapse,
                        not physical, but one which left me in no mood or condition to go on with my
                        work, or any work indeed in any form. Hope had disappeared in  a sad haze. I could apparently succeed in
                        nothing, do nothing mentally that was worth while. At the same time I had
                        all but retired from the world, living on less and less until finally I had
                        descended into those depths where I was in the grip of actual want, with no
                        place to which my pride would let me turn. I had always been too vain and
                        self-centered. Apparently there was but one door, and I was very close to
                        it. To match my purse I had retired to a still sorrier neighborhood in B,
                        one of the poorest. I desired most of all to be let alone, to be to myself.
                        Still I could not be, for occasionally I met people, and certain prospects
                        and necessities drove me to various publishing houses. One day as I was
                        walking in some street near Broadway (not on it) in New York, I ran into my
                        brother quite by accident, he as prosperous and comfortable as ever. I think
                        I resented him more than ever. He was of course astonished, shocked, as I
                        could plainly see, by my appearance and desire not to be seen. He demanded
                        to know where I was living, wanted me to come then and there and stay with
                        him, wanted me to tell him what the trouble wasall of which I rather
                        stubbornly refused to do and finally got awaynot however without giving him
                        my address, though with the caution that I wanted nothing.
                    The next morning he was there bright and early in a cab. He was the most
                        vehement, the most tender, the most disturbed creature I have ever seen. He
                        was like a distrait mother with a sick child more than anything else.
                    "For God's sake," he commented when he saw me,
                        "living in a place like thisand at this number, too!" (130
                        it was, and he was superstitious as to the thirteen.) "I knew
                        there'd be a damned thirteen in it!" he ejaculated.
                        "And me over in New York! Jesus Christ! And you sick and run down
                        this way! I might have known. It's just like you. I
                        haven't heard a thing about you in I don't know when.
                        Well,  I'm not going back without
                        you, that's all. You've got to come with me now, see? Get
                        your clothes, that's all. The cabby'll take your trunk. I
                        know just the place for you, and you're going there tomorrow or
                        next day or next week, but you're coming with me now. My God, I
                        should think you'd be ashamed of yourself, and me feeling the way I
                        do about you!" His eyes all but brimmed.
                    I was so morose and despondent that, grateful as I felt, I could scarcely
                        take his mood at its value. I resented it, resented myself, my state, life.
                    "I can't," I said finally, or so I thought.
                        "I won't. I don't need your help. You
                        don't owe me anything. You've done enough
                        already."
                    "Owe, hell!" he retorted. "Who's talking
                        about 'owe'? And you my brothermy own flesh and blood!
                        Why, Thee, for that matter, I owe you half of 'On the
                        Banks,' and you know it. You can't go on living like this.
                        You're sick and discouraged. You can't fool me. Why, Thee,
                        you're a big man. You've just got to come out of this!
                        Damn itdon't you seedon't make me"and he took out
                        his handkerchief and wiped his eyes. "You can't help
                        yourself now, but you can later, don't you see? Come on. Get your
                        things. I'd never forgive myself if I didn't.
                        You've got to come, that's all. I won't go
                        without you," and he began looking about for my bag and trunk.
                    I still protested weakly, but in vain. His affection was so overwhelming and
                        tender that it made me weak. I allowed him to help me get my things
                        together. Then he paid the bill, a small one, and on the way to the hotel
                        insisted on forcing a roll of bills on me, all that he had with him. I was
                        compelled at once, that same day or the next, to indulge in a suit, hat,
                        shoes, underwear, all that I needed. A bedroom adjoining his suite at the
                        hotel was taken, and for two days I lived there, later accompanying him in
                        his car to a  famous sanitarium in
                        Westchester, one in charge of an old friend of his, a well-known ex-wrestler
                        whose fame for this sort of work was great. Here I was booked for six weeks,
                        all expenses paid, until I should "be on my feet again,"
                        as he expressed it. Then he left, only to visit and revisit me until I
                        returned to the city, fairly well restored in nerves if not in health.
                    But could one ever forget the mingled sadness and fervor of his original
                        appeal, the actual distress written in his face, the unlimited generosity of
                        his mood and deed as well as his unmerited self-denunciation? One pictures
                        such tenderness and concern as existing between parents and children, but
                        rarely between brothers. Here he was evincing the same thing, as soft as
                        love itself, and he a man of years and some affairs and I an irritable,
                        distrait and peevish soul.
                    Take note, ye men of satire and spleen. All men are not selfish or hard.
                    The final phase of course related to his untimely end. He was not quite
                        fifty-five when he died, and with a slightly more rugged quality of mind he
                        might have lasted to seventy. It was due really to the failure of his firm
                        (internal dissensions and rivalries, in no way due to him, however, as I
                        have been told) and what he foolishly deemed to be the end of his financial
                        and social glory. His was one of those simple, confiding, non-hardy
                        disposition, warm and colorful but intensely sensitive, easily and even
                        fatally chilled by the icy blasts of human difficulty, however slight. You
                        have no doubt seen some animals, cats, dogs, birds, of an especially
                        affectionate nature, which when translated to a strange or unfriendly
                        climate soon droop and die. They have no spiritual resources wherewith to
                        contemplate what they do not understand or know. Now his friends would leave him. Now that bright world of which he had
                        been a part would know him no more. It was pathetic, really. He emanated a
                        kind of fear. Depression  and even despair
                        seemed to hang about him like a cloak. He could not shake it off. And yet,
                        literally, in his case there was nothing to fear, if he had only known.
                    And yet two years before he did die, I knew he would. Fantastic as it may
                        seem, to be shut out from that bright world of which he deemed himself an
                        essential figure was all but unendurable. He had no ready money nownot the
                        same amount anyhow. He could not greet his old-time friends so gayly,
                        entertain so freely. Meeting him on Broadway shortly after the failure and
                        asking after his affairs, he talked of going into business for himself as a
                        publisher, but I realized that he could not. He had neither the ability nor
                        the talent for that, nor the heart. He was not a business man but a
                        song-writer and actor, had never been anything but that. He tried in this
                        new situation to write songs, but he could not. They were too morbid. What
                        he needed was some one to buoy him up, a manager, a strong confidant of some
                        kind, some one who would have taken his affairs in hand and shown him what
                        to do. As it was he had no one. His friends, like winter-frightened birds,
                        had already departed. Personally, I was in no position to do anything at the
                        time, being more or less depressed myself and but slowly emerging from
                        difficulties which had held me for a number of years.
                    About a year or so after he failed my sister E announced that Paul had been
                        there and that he was coming to live with her. He could not pay so much
                        then, being involved with all sorts of examinations of one kind and another,
                        but neither did he have to. Her memory was not short; she gave him the
                        fullness of her home. A few months later he was ostensibly connected with
                        another publishing house, but by then he was feeling so poorly physically
                        and was finding consolation probably in some drinking and the caresses of
                        those feminine friends who have, alas, only caresses to offer. A little
                        later I met a doctor who said, "Paul cannot live. He  has pernicious anmia. He is breaking down
                        inside and doesn't know it. He can't last long.
                        He's too depressed." I knew it was so and what the remedy
                        wasmoney and success once more, the petty pettings and flattery of that
                        little world of which he had been a part but which now was no more for him.
                        Of all those who had been so lavish in their greetings and companionship
                        earlier in his life, scarcely one, so far as I could make out, found him in
                        that retired world to which he was forced. One or two pegged-out actors
                        sought him and borrowed a little of the little that he had; a few others
                        came when he had nothing at all. His partners, quarreling among themselves
                        and feeling that they had done him an injustice, remained religiously away.
                        He found, as he often told my sister, broken horse-shoes (a "bad
                        sign"), met cross-eyed women, another "bad sign,"
                        was pursued apparently by the inimical number thirteenand all these little
                        straws depressed him horribly. Finally, being no longer strong enough to be
                        about, he took to his bed and remained there days at a time, feeling well
                        while in bed but weak when up. For a little while he would go
                        "downtown" to see this, that and the other person, but
                        would soon return. One day on coming back home he found one of his hats
                        lying on his bed, accidentally put there by one of the children, and
                        according to my sister, who was present at the time, he was all but
                        petrified by the sight of it. To him it was the death-sign. Some one had
                        told him so not long before!!!
                    Then, not incuriously, seeing the affectional tie that had always held us, he
                        wanted to see me every day. He had a desire to talk to me about his early
                        life, the romance of itmaybe I could write a story some time, tell something
                        about him! (Best of brothers, here it is, a thin little flower to lay at
                        your feet!) To please him I made notes, although I knew most of it. On these
                        occasions he was always his old self, full of ridiculous stories, quips and
                        slight mots, all  in his old
                        and best vein. He would soon be himself, he now insisted.
                    Then one evening in late November, before I had time to call upon him (I
                        lived about a mile away), a hurry-call came from E. He had suddenly died at
                        five in the afternoon; a blood-vessel had burst in the head. When I arrived
                        he was already cold in death, his soft hands folded over his chest, his face
                        turned to one side on the pillow, that indescribable sweetness of expression
                        about the eyes and mouththe empty shell of the beetle. There were tears, a
                        band of reporters from the papers, the next day obituary news articles, and
                        after that a host of friends and flowers, flowers, flowers. It is amazing
                        what satisfaction the average mind takes in standardized floral formsbroken
                        columns and gates ajar!
                    Being ostensibly a Catholic, a Catholic sister-in-law and other relatives
                        insistently arranged for a solemn high requiem mass at the church of one of
                        his favorite rectors. All Broadway was there, more flowers, his latest song
                        read from the altar. Then there was a carriage procession to a distant.
                        Catholic graveyard somewhere, his friend, the rector of the church,
                        officiating at the grave. It was so cold and dreary there, horrible. Later
                        on he was removed to Chicago.
                    But still I think of him as not there or anywhere in the realm of space, but
                        on Broadway between Twenty-ninth and Forty-second Streets, the spring and
                        summer time at hand, the doors of the grills and bars of the hotels open,
                        the rout of actors and actresses ambling to and fro, his own delicious
                        presence dressed in his best, his "funny" stories, his
                        songs being ground out by the hand organs, his friends extending their
                        hands, clapping him on the shoulder, cackling over the latest idle yarn.
                    Ah, Broadway! Broadway! And you, my good brother! Here is the story that you
                        wanted me to write, this little testimony to your memory, a pale, pale
                        symbol of all I think  and feel. Where are the
                        thousand yarns I have laughed over, the music, the lights, the song?
                    Peace, peace. So shall it soon be with all of us. It was a dream. It is. I
                        am. You are. And shall we grieve over or hark back to dreams?
                
                
                
                    THE COUNTRY DOCTOR
                    HOW well I remember himthe tall, grave, slightly bent
                        figure, the head like Plato's or that of Diogenes, the mild,
                        kindly, brown-gray eyes peering, all too kindly, into the faces of dishonest
                        men. In addition, he wore long, full, brown-gray whiskers, a long gray
                        overcoat (soiled and patched toward the last) in winter, a soft black hat
                        that hung darkeningly over his eyes. But what a doctor! And how simple and
                        often non-drug-storey were so many of his remedies!
                    "My son, your father is very sick. Now, I'll tell you what
                        you can do for me. You go out here along the Cheevertown road about a mile
                        or two and ask any farmer this side of the creek to let you have a good big
                        handful of peach sprigsabout so many, see? Say that Doctor Gridley said he
                        was to give them to you for him. Then, Mrs., when he brings them, you take a
                        few, not more than seven or eight, and break them up and steep them in hot
                        water until you have an amber-colored tea. Give Mr. about three or four
                        teaspoonfuls of that every three or four hours, and I hope we'll
                        find he'll do better. This kidney case is severe, I know, but
                        he'll come around all right."
                    And he did. My father had been very ill with gall stones, so weak at last
                        that we thought he was sure to die. The house was so somber at the time.
                        Over it hung an atmosphere of depression and fear, with pity for the
                        sufferer, and groans of distress on his part. And then there were the solemn
                        visits of the doctor, made pleasant by his wise, kindly humor and his
                        hopeful predictions and ending in this seemingly mild prescription, which
                        resulted, in this case, in a cure.
                    
                    He was seemingly so remote at times, in reality so near, and wholly
                        thoughtful.
                    On this occasion I went out along the long, cold, country road of a March
                        evening. I was full of thoughts of his importance as a doctor. He seemed so
                        necessary to us, as he did to everybody. I knew nothing about medicine, or
                        how lives were saved, but I felt sure that he did and that he would save my
                        father in spite of his always conservative, speculative, doubtful manner.
                        What a wonderful man he must be to know all these thingsthat peach sprouts,
                        for instance, were an antidote to the agony of gall stones!
                    As I walked along, the simplicity of country life and its needs and
                        deprivations were impressed upon me, even though I was so young. So few here
                        could afford to pay for expensive prescriptionsourselves especiallyand Dr.
                        Gridley knew that and took it into consideration, so rarely did he order
                        anything from a drug-store. Most often, what he prescribed he took out of a
                        case, compounded, as it were, in our presence.
                    A brisk wind had fluttered snow in the morning, and now the ground was white,
                        with a sinking red sun shining across it, a sense of spring in the air.
                        Being unknown to these farmers, I wondered if any one of them would really
                        cut me a double handful of fresh young peach sprigs or suckers from their
                        young trees, as the doctor had said. Did they really know him? Some one
                        along the roada home-driving farmertold me of an old Mr. Mills who had a
                        five-acre orchard farther on. In a little while I came to his door and was
                        confronted by a thin, gaunt, bespectacled woman, who called back to a man
                        inside:
                    "Henry, here's a little boy says Dr. Gridley said you were
                        to cut him a double handful of peach sprigs."
                    Henry now came forwarda tall, bony farmer in high boots and an old wool-lined
                        leather coat, and a cap of wool.
                    
                    "Dr. Gridley sent cha, did he?" he observed, eyeing me most
                        critically.
                    "Yes, sir."
                    "What's the matter? What does he want with 'em? Do
                        ya know?"
                    "Yes, sir. My father's sick with kidney trouble, and Dr.
                        Gridley said I was to come out here."
                    "Oh, all right. Wait'll I git my big knife," and
                        back he went, returning later with a large horn-handled knife, which he
                        opened. He preceded me out through the barn lot and into the orchard beyond.
                    "Dr. Gridley sent cha, did he, huh?" he asked as he went.
                        "Well, I guess we all have ter comply with whatever the doctor
                        orders. We're all apt ter git sick now an'
                        ag'in," and talking trivialities of a like character, he
                        cut me an armful, saying: "I might as well give ya too many as too
                        few. Peach sprigs! Now, I never heered o' them bein' good
                        for anythin', but I reckon the doctor knows what he's
                        talkin' about. He usually doesor that's what we think
                        around here, anyhow."
                    In the dusk I trudged home with my armful, my fingers cold. The next morning,
                        the tea having been brewed and taken, my father was better. In a week or two
                        he was up and around, as well as ever, and during this time he commented on
                        the efficacy of this tea, which was something new to him, a strange remedy,
                        and which caused the whole incident to be impressed upon my mind. The doctor
                        had told him that at any time in the future if he was so troubled and could
                        get fresh young peach sprigs for a tea, he would find that it would help
                        him. And the drug expense was exactly nothing.
                    In later years I came to know him betterthis thoughtful, crusty, kindly soul,
                        always so ready to come at all hours when his cases permitted, so anxious to
                        see that his patients were not taxed beyond their financial resources.
                    
                    I remember once, one of my sisters being very ill, so ill that we were
                        beginning to fear death, one and another of us had to take turn sitting up
                        with her at night to help and to give her her medicine regularly. During one
                        of the nights when I was sitting up, dozing, reading and listening to the
                        wind in the pines outside, she seemed persistently to get worse. Her fever
                        rose, and she complained of such aches and pains that finally I had to go
                        and call my mother. A consultation with her finally resulted in my being
                        sent for Dr. Gridleyno telephones in those daysto tell him, although she
                        hesitated so to do, how sister was and ask him if he would not come.
                    I was only fourteen. The street along which I had to go was quite dark, the
                        town lights being put out at two a. m., for reasons of thrift perhaps. There
                        was a high wind that cried in the trees. My shoes on the board walks, here
                        and there, sounded like the thuds of a giant. I recall progressing in a
                        shivery ghost-like sort of way, expecting at any step to encounter goblins
                        of the most approved form, until finally the well-known outlines of the
                        house of the doctor on the main streetyellow, many-roomed, a wide porch in
                        frontcame, because of a very small lamp in a very large glass case to one
                        side of the door, into view.
                    Here I knocked, and then knocked more. No reply. I then made a still more
                        forceful effort. Finally, through one of the red glass panels which graced
                        either side of the door I saw the lengthy figure of the doctor, arrayed in a
                        long white nightshirt, and carrying a small glass hand-lamp, come into view
                        at the head of the stairs. His feet were in gray flannel slippers, and his
                        whiskers stuck out most grotesquely.
                    "Wait! Wait!" I heard him call. "I'll be
                        there! I'm coming! Don't make such a fuss! It seems as
                        though I never get a real good night's rest any more."
                    He came on, opened the door, and looked out.
                    
                    "Well," he demanded, a little fussily for him,
                        "what's the matter now?"
                    "Doctor," I began, and proceeded to explain all my
                        sister's aches and pains, winding up by saying that my mother said
                        "wouldn't he please come at once?"
                    "Your mother!" he grumbled. "What can I do if I do
                        come down? Not a thing. Feel her pulse and tell her she's all
                        right! That's every bit I can do. Your mother knows that as well as
                        I do. That disease has to run its course." He looked at me as
                        though I were to blame, then added, "Calling me up this way at
                        three in the morning!"
                    "But she's in such pain, Doctor," I complained.
                    "All righteverybody has to have a little pain! You can't be
                        sick without it."
                    "I know," I replied disconsolately, believing sincerely
                        that my sister might die, "but she's in such awful pain,
                        Doctor."
                    "Well, go on," he replied, turning up the light.
                        "I know it's all foolishness, but I'll come. You
                        go back and tell your mother that I'll be there in a little bit,
                        but it's all nonsense, nonsense. She isn't a bit sicker
                        than I am right this minute, not a bit" and he closed the door and
                        went upstairs.
                    To me this seemed just the least bit harsh for the doctor, although, as I
                        reasoned afterwards, he was probably half-asleep and tireddragged out of his
                        bed, possibly, once or twice before in the same night. As I returned home I
                        felt even more fearful, for once, as I was passing a woodshed which I could
                        not see, a rooster suddenly flapped his wings and croweda sound which caused
                        me to leap all of nineteen feet Fahrenheit, sidewise. Then, as I walked
                        along a fence which later by day I saw had a comfortable resting board on
                        top two lambent golden eyes surveyed me out of inky darkness! Great
                        Hamlet's father, how my heart sank! Once more I leaped to the
                        cloddy roadway and seizing a cobblestone or hunk of mud hurled it with all
                        my might, and quite involuntarily.  Then I ran
                        until I fell into a crossing ditch. It was an amazingalmost a
                        tragicexperience, then.
                    In due time the doctor cameand I never quite forgave him for not making me
                        wait and go back with him. He was too sleepy, though, I am sure. The seizure
                        was apparently nothing which could not have waited until morning. However,
                        he left some new cure, possibly clear water in a bottle, and left again. But
                        the night trials of doctors and their patients, especially in the country,
                        was fixed in my mind then.
                    One of the next interesting impressions I gained of the doctor was that of
                        seeing him hobbling about our town on crutches, his medicine case held in
                        one hand along with a crutch, visiting his patients, when he himself
                        appeared to be so ill as to require medical attention. He was suffering from
                        some severe form of rheumatism at the time, but this, apparently, was not
                        sufficient to keep him from those who in his judgment probably needed his
                        services more than he did his rest.
                    One of the truly interesting things about Dr. Gridley, as I early began to
                        note, was his profound indifference to what might be called his material
                        welfare. Why, I have often asked myself, should a man of so much genuine
                        ability choose to ignore the gauds and plaudits and pleasures of the gayer,
                        smarter world outside, in which he might readily have shone, to this devote
                        himself and all his talents to a simple rural community? That he was an
                        extremely able physician there was not the slightest doubt. Other physicians
                        from other towns about, and even so far away as Chicago, were repeatedly
                        calling him into consultation. That he knew lifemuch of itas only a priest
                        or a doctor of true wisdom can know it, was evident from many incidents, of
                        which I subsequently learned, and yet here he was, hidden away in this
                        simple rural world, surrounded probably by his Rabelais, his Burton, his
                        Frazer, and his Montaigne, and dreaming what dreamsthinking what thoughts?
                    
                    "Say," an old patient, friend and neighbor of his once
                        remarked to me years later, when we had both moved to another city,
                        "one of the sweetest recollections of my life is to picture old Dr.
                        Gridley, Ed Boulder who used to run the hotel over at Sleichertown,
                        Congressman Barr, and Judge Morgan, sitting out in front of
                        Boulder's hotel over there of a summer's evening and
                        haw-hawing over the funny stories which Boulder was always telling while
                        they were waiting for the Pierceton bus. Dr. Gridley's laugh, so
                        soft to begin with, but growing in force and volume until it was a jolly
                        shout. And the green fields all around. And Mrs. Calder's drove of
                        geese over the way honking, too, as geese will whenever people begin to talk
                        or laugh. It was delicious."
                    One of the most significant traits of his character, as may be inferred, was
                        his absolute indifference to actual money, the very cash, one would think,
                        with which he needed to buy his own supplies. During his life, his wife, who
                        was a thrifty, hard-working woman, used frequently, as I learned after, to
                        comment on this, but to no result. He could not be made to charge where he
                        did not need to, nor collect where he knew that the people were poor.
                    "Once he became angry at my uncle," his daughter once told
                        me, "because he offered to collect for him for three per cent,
                        dunning his patients for their debts, and another time he dissolved a
                        partnership with a local physician who insisted that he ought to be more
                        careful to charge and collect."
                    This generosity on his part frequently led to some very interesting results.
                        On one occasion, for instance, when he was sitting out on his front lawn in
                        Warsaw, smoking, his chair tilted back against a tree and his legs crossed
                        in the fashion known as "jack-knife," a poorly dressed
                        farmer without a coat come up and after saluting the doctor began to explain
                        that his wife was sick and that he had come to get the doctor's
                        advice. He seemed quite disturbed, and every now and then  wiped his brow, while the doctor listened
                        with an occasional question or gently accented "uh-huh,
                        uh-huh," until the story was all told and the advice ready to be
                        received. When this was given in a low, reassuring tone, he took from his
                        pocket his little book of blanks and wrote out a prescription, which he gave
                        to the man and began talking again. The latter took out a silver dollar and
                        handed it to the doctor, who turned it idly between his fingers for a few
                        seconds, then searched in his pocket for a mate to it, and playing with them
                        a while as he talked, finally handed back the dollar to the farmer.
                    "You take that," he said pleasantly, "and go down
                        to the drug-store and have the prescription filled. I think your wife will
                        be all right."
                    When he had gone the doctor sat there a long time, meditatively puffing the
                        smoke from his cob pipe, and turning his own dollar in his hand. After a
                        time he looked up at his daughter, who was present, and said:
                    "I was just thinking what a short time it took me to write that
                        prescription, and what a long time it took him to earn that dollar. I guess
                        he needs the dollar more than I do."
                    In the same spirit of this generosity he was once sitting in his yard of a
                        summer day, sunning himself and smoking, a favorite pleasure of his, when
                        two men rode up to his gate from opposite directions and simultaneously
                        hailed him. He arose and went out to meet them. His wife, who was sewing
                        just inside the hall as she usually was when her husband was outside, leaned
                        forward in her chair to see through the door, and took note of who they
                        were. Both were men in whose families the doctor had practiced for years.
                        One was a prosperous farmer who always paid his "doctor's
                        bills," and the other was a miller, a
                        "ne'er-do-well," with a delicate wife and a
                        family of sickly children, who never asked for a statement and never had one
                        sent him, and who only occasionally and at 
                        great intervals handed the doctor a dollar in payment for his many services.
                        Both men talked to him a little while and then rode away, after which he
                        returned to the house, calling to Enoch, his old negro servant, to bring his
                        horse, and then went into his study to prepare his medicine case. Mrs.
                        Gridley, who was naturally interested in his financial welfare, and who at
                        times had to plead with him not to let his generosity stand wholly in the
                        way of his judgment, inquired of him as he came out:
                    "Now, Doctor, which of those two men are you going with?"
                    "Why, Miss Susan," he replieda favorite manner of
                        addressing his wife, of whom he was very fondthe note of apology in his
                        voice showing that he knew very well what she was thinking about,
                        "I'm going with W."
                    "I don't think that is right," she replied with
                        mild emphasis. "Mr. N is as good a friend of yours as W, and he
                        always pays you."
                    "Now, Miss Susan," he returned coaxingly, "N can
                        go to Pierceton and get Doctor Bodine, and W can't get any one but
                        me. You surely wouldn't have him left without any one?"
                    What the effect of such an attitude was may be judged when it is related that
                        there was scarcely a man, woman or child in the entire county who had not at
                        some time or other been directly or indirectly benefited by the kindly
                        wisdom of this Samaritan. He was nearly everybody's doctor, in the
                        last extremity, either as consultant or otherwise. Everywhere he went, by
                        every lane and hollow that he fared, he was constantly being called into
                        service by some onethe well-to-do as well as by those who had nothing; and
                        in both cases he was equally keen to give the same degree of painstaking
                        skill, finding something in the very poora humanness possiblywhich detained
                        and fascinated him and made him a little more prone to linger at their
                        bedsides than anywhere else.
                    
                    "He was always doing it," said his daughter, "and
                        my mother used to worry over it. She declared that of all things earthly,
                        papa loved an unfortunate person; the greater the misfortune the greater his
                        care."
                    In illustration of his easy and practically controlling attitude toward the
                        very well-to-do, who were his patients also, let me narrate this:
                    In our town was an old and very distinguished colonel, comparatively rich and
                        very crotchety, who had won considerable honors for himself during the Civil
                        War. He was a figure, and very much looked up to by all. People were, in the
                        main, overawed by and highly respectful of him. A remote, stern soul, yet to
                        Dr. Gridley he was little more than a child or schoolboyone to be bossed on
                        occasion and made to behave. Plainly, the doctor had the conviction that all
                        of us, great and small, were very much in need of sympathy and care, and
                        that he, the doctor, was the one to provide it. At any rate, he had known
                        the colonel long and well, and in a public placeat the principal street
                        corner, for instance, or in the postoffice where we school children were
                        wont to congregateit was not at all surprising to hear him take the old
                        colonel, who was quite frail now, to task for not taking better care of
                        himselfcoming out, for instance, without his rubbers, or his overcoat, in
                        wet or chilly weather, and in other ways misbehaving himself.
                    "There you go again!" I once heard him call to the colonel,
                        as the latter was leaving the postoffice and he was entering (there was no
                        rural free delivery in those days) "walking around without your
                        rubbers, and no overcoat! You want to get me up in the night again, do
                        you?"
                    "It didn't seem so damp when I started out,
                        Doctor."
                    "And of course it was too much trouble to go back! You
                        wouldn't feel that way if you couldn't come out at all,
                        perhaps!"
                    
                    "I'll put 'em on! I'll put 'em
                        on! Only, please don't fuss, Doctor. I'll go back to the
                        house and put 'em on."
                    The doctor merely stared after him quizzically, like an old schoolmaster, as
                        the rather stately colonel marched off to his home.
                    Another of his patients was an old Mr. Pegram, a large, kind, big-hearted
                        man, who was very fond of the doctor, but who had an exceedingly irascible
                        temper. He was the victim of some obscure malady which medicine apparently
                        failed at times to relieve. This seemed to increase his irritability a great
                        deal, so much so that the doctor had at last discovered that if he could get
                        Mr. Pegram angry enough the malady would occasionally disappear. This seemed
                        at times as good a remedy as any, and in consequence he was occasionally
                        inclined to try it.
                    Among other things, this old gentleman was the possessor of a handsome
                        buffalo robe, which, according to a story that long went the rounds locally,
                        he once promised to leave to the doctor when he died. At the same time all
                        reference to death both pained and irritated him greatlya fact which the
                        doctor knew. Finding the old gentleman in a most complaining and hopeless
                        mood one night, not to be dealt with, indeed, in any reasoning way, the
                        doctor returned to his home, and early the next day, without any other word,
                        sent old Enoch, his negro servant, around to get, as he said, the buffalo
                        robea request which would indicate, of course, that the doctor had concluded
                        that old Mr. Pegram had died, or was about toa hopeless case. When ushered
                        into the latter's presence, Enoch began innocently enough:
                    "De doctah say dat now dat Mr. Peg'am hab subspired, he was
                        to hab dat bababuffalo robe."
                    "What!" shouted the old irascible, rising and clambering
                        out of his bed. "What's that? Buffalo robe! By God! You go
                        back and tell old Doc Gridley that I ain't dead yet by a  damned sight! No, sir!" and
                        forthwith he dressed himself and was out and around the same day.
                    Persons who met the doctor, as I heard years later from his daughter and from
                        others who had known him, were frequently asking him, just in a social way,
                        what to do for certain ailments, and he would as often reply in a humorous
                        and half-vagrom manner that if he were in their place he would do or take
                        so-and-so, not meaning really that they should do so but merely to get rid
                        of them, and indicating of course any one of a hundred harmless thingsnever
                        one that could really have proved injurious to any one. Once, according to
                        his daughter, as he was driving into town from somewhere, he met a man on a
                        lumber wagon whom he scarcely knew but who knew him well enough, who stopped
                        and showed him a sore on the upper tip of his ear, asking him what he would
                        do for it.
                    "Oh," said the doctor, idly and jestingly, "I
                        think I'd cut it off."
                    "Yes," said the man, very much pleased with this free
                        advice, "with what, Doctor?"
                    "Oh, I think I'd use a pair of scissors," he
                        replied amusedly, scarcely assuming that his jesting would be taken
                        seriously.
                    The driver jogged on and the doctor did not see or hear of him again until
                        some two months later when, meeting him in the street, the driver smilingly
                        approached him and enthusiastically exclaimed:
                    "Well, Doc, you see I cut 'er off, and she got
                        well!"
                    "Yes," replied the doctor solemnly, not remembering
                        anything about the case but willing to appear interested, "what was
                        it you cut off?"
                    "Why, that sore on my ear up here, you know. You told me to cut it
                        off, and I did."
                    "Yes," said the doctor, becoming curious and a little
                        amazed, "with what?"
                    
                    "Why, with a pair of scissors, Doc, just like you said."
                    The doctor stared at him, the whole thing coming gradually back to him.
                    "But didn't you have some trouble in cutting it
                        off?" he inquired, in disturbed astonishment.
                    "No, no," said the driver, "I made 'em
                        sharp, all right. I spent two days whettin' 'em up, and
                        Bob Hart cut 'er off fer me. They cut, all right, but I tell you
                        she hurt when she went through the gristle."
                    He smiled in pleased remembrance of his surgical operation, and the doctor
                        smiled also, but, according to his daughter, he decided to give no more idle
                        advice of that kind.
                    In the school which I attended for a period were two of his sons, Fred and
                        Walter. Both were very fond of birds, and kept a number of one kind or
                        another about their homenot in cages, as some might, but inveigled and
                        trained as pets, and living in the various open bird-houses fixed about the
                        yard on poles. The doctor himself was intensely fond of these and all other
                        birds, and, according to his daughter and his sons, always anticipated the
                        spring return of many of themblackbirds, blue jays, wrens and robinswith a
                        hopeful, "Well, now, they'll soon be here again."
                        During the summer, according to her, he was always an interested spectator
                        of their gyrations in the air, and when evening would come was never so
                        happy as when standing and staring at them gathering from all directions to
                        their roosts in the trees or the bird-houses. Similarly, when the fall
                        approached and they would begin their long flight Southward, he would
                        sometimes stand and scan the sky and trees in vain for a final glimpse of
                        his feathered friends, and when in the gathering darkness they were no
                        longer to be seen would turn away toward the house, saying sadly to his
                        daughter:
                    "Well, Dollie, the blackbirds are all gone. I am sorry. I  like to see them, and I am always sorry to
                        lose them, and sorry to know that winter is coming."
                    "Usually about the 25th or 26th of December," his daughter
                        once quaintly added to me, "he would note that the days were
                        beginning to get longer, and cheer up, as spring was certain to follow soon
                        and bring them all back again."
                    One of the most interesting of his bird friendships was that which existed
                        between him and a pair of crows he and his sons had raised,
                        "Jim" and "Zip" by name. These crows
                        came to know him well, and were finally so humanly attached to him that,
                        according to his family, they would often fly two or three miles out of town
                        to meet him and would then accompany him, lighting on fences and trees by
                        the way, and cawing to him as he drove along! Both of them were great
                        thieves, and would steal anything from a bit of thread up to a sewing
                        machine, if they could have carried it. They were always walking about the
                        house, cheerfully looking for what they might devour, and on one occasion
                        carried off a set of spoons, which they hid about the eaves of the house. On
                        another occasion they stole a half dozen tin-handled pocket knives, which
                        the doctor had bought for the children and which the crows seemed to like
                        for the brightness of the metal. They were recovered once by the children,
                        stolen again by the crows, recovered once more, and so on, until at last it
                        was a question as to which were the rightful owners.
                    The doctor was sitting in front of a store one day in the business-heart of
                        town, where also he liked to linger in fair weather, when suddenly he saw
                        one of his crows flying high overhead and bearing something in its beak,
                        which it dropped into the road scarcely a hundred feet away. Interested to
                        see what it was the bird had been carrying, he went to the spot where he saw
                        it fall and found one of the tin-handled knives, which the crow had been
                        carrying to a safe hiding-place.
                    
                    He picked it up and when he returned home that night asked one of his boys if
                        he could lend him a knife.
                    "No," said his son. "Our knives are all lost. The
                        crows took them."
                    "I knew that," said the doctor sweetly, "and so,
                        when I met Zip uptown just now, I asked her to lend me one, and she did.
                        Here it is."
                    He pulled out the knife and handed it to the boy and, when the latter
                        expressed doubt and wonder, insisted that the crow had loaned it to him a
                        joke which ended in his always asking one of the children to run and ask Zip
                        if she would lend him a knife, whenever he chanced to need one.
                    Although a sad man at times, as I understood, the doctor was not a pessimist,
                        and in many ways, both by practical jokes and the humoring of odd
                        characters, sought relief from the intense emotional strain which the large
                        practice of his profession put upon him. One of his greatest reliefs was the
                        carrying out of these little practical jokes, and he had been known to go to
                        much trouble at times to work up a good laugh.
                    One of the, to him, richest jokes, and one which he always enjoyed telling,
                        related to a country singing school which was located in the neighborhood of
                        Pierceton, in which reading (the alphabet, at least), spelling, geography,
                        arithmetic, rules of grammar, and so forth, were still taught by a process
                        of singing. The method adopted in this form of education was to have the
                        scholar memorize all knowledge by singing it. Thus in the case of geography
                        the students would sing the name of the country, then its mountains, then
                        the highest peaks, cities, rivers, principal points of interest, and so on,
                        until all information about that particular country had been duly memorized
                        in song or rhyme. Occasionally they would have a school-day on which the
                        local dignitaries would be invited, and on a number of these occasions the
                        doctor was, for amusement's  sake
                        merely, a grave and reverent listener. On one occasion, however, he was
                        merely passing the school, when hearing "Africa-a, Africa-a,
                        mountains of the moo-oo-oon" drawled out of the windows, he decided
                        to stop in and listen a while. Having tethered his horse outside he knocked
                        at the door and was received by the little English singing teacher who,
                        after showing him to a seat, immediately called upon the class for an
                        exhibition of their finest wisdom. When they had finished this the teacher
                        turned to him and inquired if there was anything he would especially like
                        them to sing.
                    "No," said the doctor gravely, and no doubt with an amused
                        twinkle in his eye, "I had thought of asking you to sing the Rocky
                        Mountains, but as the mountains are so high, and the amount of time I have
                        so limited, I have decided that perhaps it will be asking too
                        much."
                    "Oh, not at all, not at all," airily
                        replied the teacher, and turning to his class, he exclaimed with a very
                        superior smile: "Now, ladies and gentlemen, 'ere is a
                        scientific gentleman who thinks it is 'arder to sing of 'igh mountings than it is to sing of low mountings," and forthwith the class began to
                        demonstrate that in respect to vocalization there was no difference at all.
                    Only those, however, who knew Dr. Gridley in the sickroom, and knew him well,
                        ever discovered the really finest trait of his character: a keen, unshielded
                        sensibility to and sympathy for all human suffering, that could not bear to
                        inflict the slightest additional pain. He was really, in the main, a man of
                        soft tones and unctuous laughter, of gentle touch and gentle step, and a
                        devotion to duty that carried him far beyond his interests or his personal
                        well-being. One of his chiefest oppositions, according to his daughter, was
                        to telling the friends or relatives of any stricken person that there was no
                        hope. Instead, he would use every delicate shade of phrasing and tone in
                        imparting the fateful words, in order if possible  to give less pain. "I remember in the case of my
                        father," said one of his friends, "when the last day came.
                        Knowing the end was near, he was compelled to make some preliminary
                        discouraging remark, and I bent over with my ear against my
                        father's chest and said, "Doctor Gridley, the disease is
                        under control, I think. I can hear the respiration to the bottom of the
                        lungs."
                    "'Yes, yes,' he answered me sadly, but now with an
                        implication which could by no means be misunderstood, 'it is nearly
                        always so. The failure is in the recuperative energy. Vitality runs too
                        low." It meant from the first, 'Your father will not
                        live.'"
                    In the case of a little child with meningitis, the same person was sent to
                        him to ask what of the childbetter or worse. His answer was: "He is
                        passing as free from pain as ever I knew a case of this kind."
                    In yet another case of a dying woman, one of her relatives inquired:
                        "Doctor, is this case dangerous?" "Not in the
                        nature of the malady, madam," was his sad and sympathetic reply,
                        "but fatal in the condition it meets. Hope is broken. There is
                        nothing to resist the damage."
                    One of his patients was a farmer who lived in an old-time log house a few
                        miles out from Silver Lake, who while working about his barn met with a very
                        serious accident which involved a possible injury to the gall bladder. The
                        main accident was not in itself fatal, but the possible injury to the gall
                        bladder was, and this, if it existed, would show as a yellow tint in the
                        eyeball on the tenth day. Fearing the danger of this, he communicated the
                        possibility to the relatives, saying that he could do little after that time
                        but that he would come just the same and make the patient as comfortable as
                        possible. For nine days he came, sitting by the bedside and whiling away
                        many a weary hour for the sufferer, until the tenth morning. On this day,
                        according to his daughter, who  had it from
                        the sick man's relatives, his face but ill concealed the anxiety he
                        felt. Coming up to the door, he entered just far enough to pretend to reach
                        for a water bucket. With this in his hand he turned and gave one long keen
                        look in the eye of the sick man, then walked down the yard to a chair under
                        a tree some distance from the house, where he sat, drooping and apparently
                        grieved, the certainty of the death of the patient affecting him as much as
                        if he were his own child.
                    "There was no need for words," said one of them.
                        "Every curve and droop of his figure, as he walked slowly and with
                        bent head, told all of us who saw him that hope was gone and that death had
                        won the victory."
                    One of his perpetual charges, as I learned later, was a poor old unfortunate
                        by the name of Id Logan, who had a little cabin and an acre of ground a half
                        dozen miles west of Warsaw, and who existed from year to year heaven only
                        knows how.
                    Id never had any money, friends or relatives, and was always troubled with
                        illness or hunger in some form or other, and yet the doctor always spoke of
                        him sympathetically as "Poor old Id Logan" and would often
                        call out there on his rounds to see how he was getting along. One snowy
                        winter's evening as he was traveling homeward after a long
                        day's ride, he chanced to recollect the fact that he was in the
                        neighborhood of his worthless old charge, and fancying that he might be in
                        need of something turned his horse into the lane which led up to the door.
                        When he reached the house he noticed that no smoke was coming from the
                        chimney and that the windows were slightly rimmed with frost, as if there
                        were no heat within. Rapping at the door and receiving no response, he
                        opened it and went in. There he found his old charge, sick and wandering in
                        his mind, lying upon a broken-down bed and moaning in pain. There was no
                        fire in the fireplace. The coverings with which the bed was fitted were but
                        two or  three old worn and faded quilts, and
                        the snow was sifting in badly through the cracks where the chinking had
                        fallen out between the logs, and under the doors and windows.
                    Going up to the sufferer and finding that some one of his old, and to the
                        doctor well-known, maladies had at last secured a fatal grip upon him, he
                        first administered a tonic which he knew would give him as much strength as
                        possible, and then went out into the yard, where, after putting up his
                        horse, he gathered chips and wood from under the snow and built a roaring
                        fire. Having done this, he put on the kettle, trimmed the lamp, and after
                        preparing such stimulants as the patient could stand, took his place at the
                        bedside, where he remained the whole night long, keeping the fire going and
                        the patient as comfortable as possible. Toward morning the sufferer died and
                        when the sun was well up he finally returned to his family, who anxiously
                        solicited him as to his whereabouts.
                    "I was with Id Logan," he said.
                    "What's ailing him now?" his daughter inquired.
                    "Nothing now," he returned. "It was only last
                        night," and for years afterward he commented on the death of
                        "poor old Id," saying always at the conclusion of his
                        remarks that it must be a dreadful thing to be sick and die without friends.
                    His love for his old friends and familiar objects was striking, and he could
                        no more bear to see an old friend move away than he could to lose one of his
                        patients. One of his oldest friends was a fine old Christian lady by the
                        name of Weeks, who lived down in Louter Creek bottoms and in whose household
                        he had practiced for nearly fifty years. During the latter part of his life,
                        however, this family began to break up, and finally when there was no one
                        left but the mother she decided to move over into Whitley County, where she
                        could stay with her daughter. Just before going, however, she expressed a
                        wish to see Doctor Gridley, and he called in upon her. A little dinner had
                        been prepared in honor of his coming.  After
                        it was over and the old times were fully discussed he was about to take his
                        leave when Mrs. Weeks disappeared from the room and then returned, bearing
                        upon her arm a beautiful yarn spread which she held out before her and, in
                        her nervous, feeble way getting the attention of the little audience, said:
                    "Doctor, I am going up to Whitley now to live with my daughter, and
                        I don't suppose I will get to see you very often any more. Like
                        myself, you are getting old, and it will be too far for you to come. But I
                        want to give you this spread that I have woven with my own hands since I
                        have been sixty years of age. It isn't very much, but it is meant
                        for a token of the love and esteem I bear you, and in remembrance of all
                        that you have done for me and mine."
                    Her eyes were wet and her voice quivering as she brought it forward. The
                        doctor, who had been wholly taken by surprise by this kindly manifestation
                        of regard, had arisen during her impromptu address and now stood before her,
                        dignified and emotionally grave, his own eyes wet with tears of
                        appreciation.
                    Balancing the homely gift upon his extended hands, he waited until the force
                        of his own sentiment had slightly subsided, when he replied:
                    "Madam, I appreciate this gift with which you have chosen to
                        remember me as much as I honor the sentiment which has produced it. There
                        are, I know, threads of feeling woven into it stronger than any cords of
                        wool, and more enduring than all the fabrics of this world. I have been your
                        physician now for fifty years, and have been a witness of your joys and
                        sorrows. But, as much as I esteem you, and as highly as I prize this token
                        of your regard, I can accept it but upon one condition, and that is, Mrs.
                        Weeks, that you promise me that no matter how dark the night, how stormy the
                        sky, or how deep the waters that intervene, you will not fail to send for me
                        in your hour of need. It is both my privilege and my  pleasure, and I should not rest content unless I knew it were
                        so."
                    When the old lady had promised, he took his spread and going out to his
                        horse, rode away to his own home, where he related this incident, and ended
                        with, "Now I want this put on my bed."
                    His daughter, who lovingly humored his every whim, immediately complied with
                        his wish, and from that day to the hour of his death the spread was never
                        out of his service.
                    One of the most pleasing incidents to me was one which related to his last
                        illness and death. Always, during his later years, when he felt the least
                        bit ill, he refused to prescribe for himself, saying that a doctor, if he
                        knew anything at all, was never such a fool as to take any of his own
                        medicine. Instead, and in sequence to this humorous attitude, he would
                        always send for one of the younger men of the vicinity who were beginning to
                        practice here, one for instance, who having other merits needed some
                        assurance and a bit of superior recognition occasionally to help him along.
                        On this occasion he called in a very sober young doctor, one who was greatly
                        admired but had very little practice as yet, and saying, "Doctor,
                        I'm sick today," lay back on his bed and waited for
                        further developments.
                    The latter, owing to Dr. Gridley's great repute and knowledge, was
                        very much flustered, so much so that he scarcely knew what to do.
                    "Well, Doctor," he finally said, after looking at his
                        tongue, taking his pulse and feeling his forehead, "you're
                        really a better judge of your own condition than I am, I'm sure.
                        What do you think I ought to give you?"
                    "Now, Doctor," replied Gridley sweetly,
                        "I'm your patient, and you're my doctor, I
                        wouldn't prescribe for myself for anything in the world, and
                        I'm going to take whatever you  give
                        me. That's why I called you in. Now, you just give me what you
                        think my condition requires, and I'll take it."
                    The young doctor, meditating on all that was new or faddistic, decided, at
                        last that just for variation's sake he would give the doctor
                        something of which he had only recently heard, a sample of which he had with
                        him and which had been acclaimed in the medical papers as very effective.
                        Without asking the doctor whether he had ever heard of it, or what he
                        thought, he merely prescribed it.
                    "Well, now, I like that," commented Gridley solemnly.
                        "I never heard of that before in my life, but it sounds plausible.
                        I'll take it, and we'll see. What's more. I like
                        a young doctor like yourself who thinks up ways of his own" and,
                        according to his daughter, he did take it, and was helped, saying always
                        that what young, doctors needed to do was to keep abreast of the latest
                        medical developments, that medicine was changing, and perhaps it was just as
                        well that old doctors died! He was so old and feeble, however, that he did
                        not long survive, and when the time came was really glad to go.
                    One of the sweetest and most interesting of all his mental phases was, as I
                        have reason to know, his attitude toward the problem of suffering and death,
                        an attitude so full of the human qualities of wonder, sympathy, tenderness,
                        and trust, that he could scarcely view them without exhibiting the emotion
                        he felt. He was a constant student of the phenomena of dissolution, and in
                        one instance calmly declared it as his belief that when a man was dead he
                        was dead and that was the end of him, consciously. At other times he
                        modified his view to one of an almost prayerful hope, and in reading Emily
                        Bronte's somewhat morbid story of "Wuthering
                        Heights," his copy of which I long had in my possession, I noted
                        that he had annotated numerous passages relative to death and a future life
                        with interesting comments of his own. To one of these passages, which reads:
                    
                    "I don't know if it be a peculiarity with me, but I am
                        seldom otherwise than happy while watching in the chamber of death, provided
                        no frenzied or despairing mourner shares the duty with me. I see a repose
                        that neither earth nor hell can break, and I feel an assurance of the
                        endless and shadowless hereafterthe eternity they have enteredwhere life is
                        boundless in its duration, and love in its sympathy, and joy in its
                        fullness,"
                    he had added on the margin:
                    "How often I have felt this very emotion. How natural I know it to
                        be. And what a consolation in the thought!'"
                    Writing a final prescription for a young clergyman who was dying, and for
                        whom he had been most tenderly solicitous, he added to the list of drugs he
                        had written in Latin, the lines:
                    
                        "In life's closing hour, when the trembling soul
                            flies
                        And death stills the heart's last emotion,
                        Oh, then may the angel of mercy arise
                        Like a star on eternity's ocean!"
                    
                    When he himself was upon his death-bed he greeted his old friend Colonel
                        Dyerhe of the absent overcoat and overshoeswith:
                    "Dyer, I'm almost gone. I am in the shadow of death. I am
                        standing upon, the very brink. I cannot see clearly, I cannot speak
                        coherently, the film of death obstructs my sight. I know what this means. It
                        is the end, but all is well with me. I have no fear. I have said and done
                        things that would have been better left unsaid and undone, but I have never
                        willfully wronged a man in my life. I have no concern for myself. I am
                        concerned only for those I leave behind. I never saved  money, and I die as poor as when I was born. We do not know
                        what there is in the future now shut out from our view by a very thin veil.
                        It seems to me there is a hand somewhere that will lead us safely across,
                        but I cannot tell. No one can tell."
                    This interesting speech, made scarcely a day before he closed his eyes in
                        death, was typical of his whole generous, trustful, philosophical point of
                        view.
                    "If there be green fields and placid waters', beyond the
                        river that he so calmly crossed," so ran an editorial in the local
                        county paper edited by one of his most ardent admirers, "reserved
                        for those who believe in and practice upon the principle of of 'Do
                        unto others as you would have them do unto you, 'then this
                        Samaritan of the medical profession is safe from all harm. If there be no
                        consciousness, but only a mingling of that which was gentleness and
                        tenderness here with the earth and the waters, then the greenness of the one
                        and the sparkling limpidity of the other are richer for that he lived, and
                        wrought, and returned unto them so trustingly again."
                
                
                
                    CULHANE, THE SOLID MAN
                    I MET him in connection with a psychic depression which
                        only partially reflected itself in my physical condition. I might almost say
                        that I was sick spiritually. At the same time I was rather strongly imbued
                        with a contempt for him and his cure. I had heard of him for years. To begin
                        with, he was a wrestler of repute, or rather ex-wrestler, retired undefeated
                        champion of the world. As a boy I had known that he had toured. America with
                        Modjeska as Charles, the wrestler, in "As You Like It."
                        Before or after that he had trained John L. Sullivan, the world's
                        champion prize fighter of his day, for one of his most successful fights,
                        and that at a time when Sullivan was unfitted to fight any one. Before that,
                        in succession, from youth up, he had been a peasant farmer's son in
                        Ireland, a scullion in a ship's kitchen earning his way to America,
                        a "beef slinger" for a packing company, a cooks'
                        assistant and waiter in a Bowery restaurant, a bouncer in a saloon, a rubber
                        down at prize fights, a policeman, a private in the army during the Civil
                        War, a ticket-taker, exhibition wrestler, "short-change
                        man" with a minstrel company, later a circus, until having attained
                        his greatest fame as champion wrestler of the world, and as trainer of John
                        L. Sullivan, he finally opened a sporting sanitarium in some county in upper
                        New York State which later evolved into the great and now decidedly
                        fashionable institution in Westchester, near New York.
                    It has always been interesting to me to see in what awe men of this type or
                        profession are held by many in the more intellectual walks of life as well
                        as by those whose respectful  worship is less
                        surprising,those who revere strength, agility, physical courage, so-called,
                        brute or otherwise. There is a kind of retiring worshipfulness, especially
                        in men and children of the lower walks, for this type, which must be
                        flattering in the extreme.
                    However, in so far as Culhane was concerned at this time, the case was
                        different. Whatever he had been in his youth he was not that now, or at
                        least his earlier rawness had long since been glazed over by other
                        experiences. Self-education, an acquired politeness among strangers and a
                        knowledge, of the manners and customs of the better-to-do permitted him to
                        associate with them and to accept if not copy their manners and to a certain
                        extent their customs in his relations with them. Literally, he owned
                        hundreds of the best acres of the land about him, in one of the most
                        fashionable residence sections of the East. He had already given away to
                        some Sisters of Mercy a great estate in northern New York. His stables
                        contained every type of fashionable vehicle and stalled and fed sixty or
                        seventy of the worst horses, purposely so chosen, for the use of his
                        "guests." Men of all professions visited his place, paid
                        him gladly the six hundred dollars in advance which he asked for the course
                        of six weeks' training, and brought, or attempted to, their own
                        cars and retinues, which they lodged in the vicinity but could not use. I
                        myself was introduced or rather foisted upon him by my dear brother, whose,
                        friend if not cronyif such a thing could have been said to exist in his
                        lifehe was. I was taken to him in a very somber and depressed mood and left;
                        he rarely if ever received guests in person or at once. On the way, and
                        before I had been introduced, I was instructed by my good brother as to his
                        moods, methods, airs and tricks, supposed or rumored to be so beneficial in
                        so many cases. They were very roughpurposely so.
                    The day I arrived, and before I saw him, I was very much impressed with the
                        simplicity yet distinction of the inn or 
                        sanitarium or "repair shop," as subsequently I learned he
                        was accustomed to refer to it, perched upon a rise of ground and commanding
                        a quite wonderful panorama. It was spring and quite warm and bright. The
                        cropped enclosure which surrounded it, a great square of green fenced with
                        high, well-trimmed privet, was good to look upon, level and smooth. The
                        house, standing in the center of this, was large and oblong and gray, with
                        very simple French windows reaching to the floor and great wide balustraded
                        balconies reaching out from the second floor, shaded with awnings and set
                        with rockers. The land on which this inn stood sloped very gradually to the
                        Sound, miles away to the southeast, and the spires of churches and the
                        gables of villages rising in between, as well as various toy-like sails upon
                        the water, were no small portion of its charm. To the west for a score of
                        miles the green-covered earth rose and fell in undulating beauty, and here
                        again the roofs and spires of nearby villages might in fair weather be seen
                        nestling peacefully among the trees. Due south there was a suggestion of
                        water and some peculiar configuration, which by day seemed to have no
                        significance other than that which attached to the vague outlines of a
                        distant landscape. By night, however, the soft glow emanating from myriads
                        of lights identified it as the body and length of the merry, night-reveling
                        New York. Northward the green waves repeated themselves unendingly until
                        they passed into a dim green-blue haze.
                    Interiorly, as I learned later, this place was most cleverly and sensibly
                        arranged for the purpose for which it was intended. It was airy and
                        well-appointed, with, on the ground floor, a great gymnasium containing,
                        outside of an alcove at one end where hung four or five punching bags, only
                        medicine balls. At the other end was an office or receiving-room, baggage or
                        store-room, and locker and dining-room. To the east at the center extended a
                        wing containing a number of shower-baths,  a
                        lounging room and sun parlor. On the second floor, on either side of a wide
                        airy hall which ran from an immense library, billiard and smoking-room, at
                        one end to Culhane's private suite at the other, were two rows of
                        bedrooms, perhaps a hundred all told, which gave in turn, each one, upon
                        either side, on to the balconies previously mentioned. These rooms were
                        arranged somewhat like the rooms of a passenger steamer, with its center
                        aisle and its outer decks and doors opening upon it. In another wing on the
                        ground floor were kitchens, servants' quarters, and what not else!
                        Across the immense lawn or campus to the east, four-square to the
                        sanitarium, stood a rather grandiose stable, almost as impressive as the
                        main building. About the place, and always, more or less in evidence, were
                        servants, ostlers, waiting-maids and always a decidedly large company of men
                        of practically all professions, ages, and one might almost say
                        nationalities. That is as nationalities are represented in America, by first
                        and second generations.
                    The day I arrived I did not see my prospective host or manager or trainer for
                        an hour or two after I came, being allowed to wait about until the very
                        peculiar temperament which he possessed would permit him, to come and see
                        me. When he did show up, a more savage and yet gentlemanly-looking animal in
                        clothes de riguer I have never seen. He was really very
                        princely in build and manner, shapely and grand, like those portraits that
                        have come down to us of Richelieu and the Due de Guisefawn-colored riding,
                        trousers, bright red waistcoat, black-and-white check riding coat, brown
                        leather riding boots and leggings with the essential spurs, and a riding
                        quirt. And yet really, at that moment he reminded me not so much of a man,
                        in his supremely well-tailored riding costume, as of a tiger or a very
                        ferocious and yet at times purring cat, beautifully dressed, as in our
                        children's storybooks, a kind of tiger in collar and boots. He was
                        so lithe, silent, cat-like  in his tread. In
                        his hard, clear, gray animal eyes was that swift, incisive, restless,
                        searching glance which sometimes troubles us in the presence of animals. It
                        was hard to believe that he was all of sixty, as I had been told. He looked
                        the very well-preserved man of fifty or less. The short trimmed mustache and
                        goatee which he wore were gray and added to his grand air. His hair, cut a
                        close pompadour, the ends of his heavy eyebrow hairs turned upward, gave him
                        a still more distinguished air. He looked very virile, very intelligent,
                        very indifferent, intolerant and even threatening.
                    "Well," he exclaimed on sight, "you wish to see
                        me?"
                    I gave him my name.
                    "Yes, that's so. Your brother spoke to me about you. Well,
                        take a seat. You will be looked after."
                    He walked off, and after an hour or so I was still waiting, for what I
                        scarcely knewa room, something to eat possibly, some one to speak a friendly
                        word to me, but no one did.
                    While I was waiting in this rather nondescript antechamber, hung with hats,
                        caps, riding whips, and gauntlets, I had an opportunity to study some of the
                        men with whom presumably I was to live for a number of weeks. It was between
                        two and three in the afternoon, and many of them were idling about in pairs
                        or threes, talking, reading, all in rather commonplace athletic costumessoft
                        woolen shirts, knee trousers, stockings, and running or walking shoes. They
                        were in the main evidently of the so-called learned professions or the
                        artsdoctors, lawyers, preachers, actors, writers, with a goodly sprinkling
                        of merchants, manufacturers and young and middle-aged society men, as well
                        as politicians and monied idlers, generally a little the worse for their
                        pleasures or weaknesses. A distinguished judge of one of the superior courts
                        of New York and an actor known everywhere in the English-speaking world were
                        instantly recognized by me. Others, as I was subsequently informed, were
                        related by birth or achievement to some  one
                        fact or another of public significance. The reason for the presence of so
                        many people rather above than under the average in intellect lay, as I came
                        to believe later, in their ability or that of some one connected with them
                        to sincerely appreciate or to at least be amused and benefited by the
                        somewhat different theory of physical repair which the lord of the manor had
                        invented, or for which at least he had become famous.
                    I have remarked that I was not inclined to be impressed. Sanitariums with
                        their isms and theories did not appeal to me. However, as I was waiting here
                        an incident occurred which stuck in my mind. A smart conveyance drove up,
                        occupied by a singularly lean and haughty-looking individual, who, after
                        looking about him, expecting some one to come out to him no doubt, clambered
                        cautiously out, and after seeing that his various grips and one trunk were
                        properly deposited on the gravel square outside, paid and feed his driver,
                        then walked in and remarked:
                    "Ahwhere is Mr. Culhane?"
                    "I don't know, sir," I replied, being the only one
                        present. "He was here, but he's gone. I presume some one
                        will show up presently."
                    He walked up and down a little while, and then added: "Umrather
                        peculiar method of receiving one, isn't it? I wired him
                        I'd be here." He walked restlessly and almost waspishly to
                        and fro, looking out of the window at times, at others commenting on the
                        rather casual character of it all. I agreed.
                    Thus, some fifteen minutes having gone by without any one approaching us, and
                        occasional servants or "guests" passing through the room
                        or being seen in the offing without even so much as vouchsafing a word or
                        appearing to be interested in us, the new arrival grew excited.
                    "This is very unusual," he fumed, walking up and down.
                        "I wired him only three hours ago. I've, been here now
                        fully  three-quarters of an hour! A most
                        unheard-of method of doing business, I should say!"
                    Presently our stern, steely-eyed host returned. He seemed to be going
                        somewhere, to be nowise interested in us. Yet into our presence, probably
                        into the consciousness of this new "guest," he carried
                        that air of savage strength and indifference, eyeing the stranger quite
                        sharply and making no effort to apologize for our long wait.
                    "You wish to see me?" he inquired brusquely once more.
                    Like a wasp, the stranger was vibrant with rage. Plainly he felt himself
                        insulted or terribly underrated.
                    "Are you Mr. Culhane?" he asked crisply.
                    "Yes."
                    "I am Mr. Squiers," he exclaimed. "I wired you
                        from Buffalo and ordered, a room," this last with an irritated wave
                        of the hand.
                    "Oh, no, you didn't order any room," replied the
                        host sourly and with an obvious desire to show his indifference and contempt
                        even. "You wired to know if you could engage a
                        room."
                    He paused. The temperature seemed to drop perceptibly. The prospective guest
                        seemed to realize that he had made a mistake somewhere, had been misinformed
                        as to conditions here.
                    "Oh! Umah! Yes! Well, have you a room?"
                    "I don't know. I doubt it. We don't take every
                        one." His eyes seemed to bore into the interior of his would-be
                        guest.
                    "Well, but I was toldmy friend, Mr. X," the stranger began
                        a rapid, semi-irritated, semi-apologetic explanation of how he came to be
                        here.
                    "I don't know anything about your friend or what he told
                        you. If he told you you could order a room by telegraph, he's
                        mistaken. Anyhow, you're not dealing with him, but with me. Now
                        that you're here, though, if you want to sit down and rest yourself
                        a little I'll see what I can do for you. I  can't decide now whether I can let you stay.
                        You'll have to wait a while." He turned and walked off.
                    The other stared. "Well," he commented to me after a time,
                        walking and twisting, "if a man wants to come here I suppose he has
                        to put up with such things, but it's certainly unusual,
                        isn't it?" He sat down, wilted, and waited.
                    Later a clerk in charge of the registry book took us in hand, and then I
                        heard him explaining that his lungs were not in good shape. He had come a
                        long wayDenver, I believe. He had heard that all one needed to do was to
                        wire, especially one in his circumstances.
                    "Some people think that way," solemnly commented the clerk,
                        "but they don't know Mr. Culhane. He does about as he
                        pleases in these matters. He doesn't do this any more to make money
                        but rather to amuse himself, I think. He always has more applicants than he
                        accepts."
                    I began to see a light. Perhaps there was something to this place after all.
                        I did not even partially sense the drift of the situation, though, until
                        bedtime when, after having been served a very frugal meal and shown to my
                        very simple room, a kind of cell, promptly at nine o'clock lights
                        were turned off. I lit a small candle and was looking over some things which
                        I had placed in a grip, when I heard a voice in the hall outside:
                        "Candles out, please! Candles out! All guests in bed!"
                        Then it came to me that a very rigorous regime was being enforced here.
                    The next morning as I was still soundly sleeping at five-thirty a loud rap
                        sounded at my door. The night before I had noticed above my bed a framed
                        sign which read: "Guests must be dressed in running trunks, shoes
                        and sweater, and appear in the gymnasium by six sharp."
                        "Gymnasium at six! Gymnasium at six!" a voice echoed down
                        the hall. I bounced out of bed. Something about the very air of the place
                        made me feel that it was dangerous to attempt to trifle with the  routine here. The tiger-like eyes of my host
                        did not appeal to me as retaining any softer ray in them for me than for
                        others. I had paid my six hundred . . . I had better earn it. I was down in
                        the great room in my trunks, sweater, dressing-gown, running shoes in less
                        than five minutes.
                    And that room! By that time as odd a company of people as I have ever seen in
                        a gymnasium had already begun to assemble. The leanness! the osseosity! the
                        grandiloquent whiskers parted in the middle! the mustachios! the goatees!
                        the fat, Hoti-like stomachs! the protuberant knees! the thin arms! the bald,
                        or semi-bald pates! the spectacles or horn glasses or pince-nezes!laid aside
                        a few moments later, as the exercises began. Youth and strength in the pink
                        of condition, when clad only in trunks, a sweater and running shoes, are
                        none too acceptablebut middle age! And out in the world, I reflected rather
                        sadly, they all wore the best of clothes, had their cars, servants, city and
                        country houses perhaps, their factories, employees, institutions.
                        Ridiculous! Pitiful! As lymphatic and flabby as oysters without their
                        shells, myself included. It was really painful.
                    Even as I meditated, however, I was advised, by many who saw that I was a
                        stranger, to choose a partner, any partner, for medicine ball practice, for
                        it might save me being taken or called by him. I hastened
                        so to do. Even as we were assembling or beginning to practice, keeping two
                        or three light medicine balls going between each pair, our host enteredthat
                        iron man, that mount of brawn. In his cowled dressing-gown he looked more
                        like some great monk or fighting abbot of the medieval years than a trainer.
                        He walked to the center, hung up his cowl and revealed himself lithe and
                        lion-like and costumed like ourselves. But how much more attractive as he
                        strode about, his legs lean and sturdy, his chest full, his arms powerful
                        and graceful! At once he seized a large leather-covered medicine ball, as
                        had all the  others, and calling a name to
                        which responded a lean whisker-ando with a semi-bald pate, thin legs and
                        arms, and very much caricatured, I presume, by the wearing of trunks and
                        sweater. Taking his place opposite the host, he was immediately made the
                        recipient of a volley of balls and brow-beating epithets.
                    "Hurry up now! Faster! Ah, come on! Put the ball back to me! Put the
                        ball back! Do you want to keep it all day? Great God! What are you standing
                        there for? What are you standing there for! What do you think
                        you're doingdrinking tea? Come on! I haven't all morning
                        for you alone. Move! Move, you ham! You call yourself an editor! Why you
                        couldn't edit a handbill! You can't even throw a ball
                        straight! Throw it straight! Throw it straight! For Christ's sake
                        where do you think I amout in the office? Throw it straight! Hell!"
                        and all the time one and another ball, grabbed from anywhere, for the floor
                        was always littered with them, would be thrown in the victim's
                        direction, and before he could well appreciate what was happening to him he
                        was being struck once in the neck and again on the chest by the rapidly
                        delivered six ounce air-filled balls, two of which at least he and the host
                        were supposed to keep in constant motion between them. Later, a ball
                        striking him in the stomach, he emitted a weak "Ooph!" and
                        laying his hands over the affected part ceased all effort. At this the
                        master of the situation only smirked on him leoninely and holding up a ball
                        as if to throw it continued, "What's the matter with you
                        now? Come on! What do you want to stop for? What do you want to stand there
                        for? You're not hurt. How do you expect to get anywhere if you
                        can't keep two silly little balls like these going between
                        us?" (There had probably been six or eight.) "Here I am
                        sixty and you're forty, and you can't even keep up with
                        me. And you pretend to give the general public advice on life! Well, go on;
                        God pity the  public, is all I say,"
                        and he dismissed him, calling out another name.
                    Now came a fat, bald soul, with dewlaps and a protruding stomach, who later I
                        learned was a manufacturer of clothingsix hundred employees under himdown in
                        health and nerves, really all "shot to pieces" physically.
                        Plainly nervous at the sound of his name, he puffed quickly into position,
                        grabbing wildly after the purposely eccentric throws which his host made and
                        which kept him running to left and right in an all but panicky mood.
                    "Move! Move!" insisted our host as before, and, if
                        anything, more irritably. "Say, you work like a crab! What a
                        motion! If you had more, head and less guts you could do this better. A fine
                        specimen you are! This is what comes of riding about in taxis and eating
                        midnight, suppers instead of exercising. Wake, up! Wake up! A belt would
                        have kept your stomach in long ago. A little less food and less sleep, and
                        you wouldn't have any fat cheeks. Even your hair might stay on!
                        Wake up! Wake up! What do you want to dodie?" and as he talked he
                        pitched the balls so quickly that his victim looked at times as though he
                        were about to weep. His physical deficiencies were all too plain in every
                        way. He was generally obese and looked as though he might drop, his face a
                        flaming red, his hands trembling and missing, when a "Well, go
                        on," sounded and a third victim was called. This time it was a
                        well-known actor who responded, a star, rather spry and well set up, but
                        still nervous, for he realized quite well what was before him. He had been
                        here for weeks and was in pretty fair trim, but still he was plainly on
                        edge. He ran and began receiving and tossing as swiftly as he could, but as
                        with the others so it was his turn now to be given such a grilling and
                        tongue-lashing as falls to few of us in this world, let alone among the
                        successful in the realm of the footlights. "Say, you're
                        not an actoryou're a woman! You're a stewed  onion! Move! Move! Come on! Come on! Look at
                        those motions now, will you? Look at that one arm up! Where do you suppose
                        the ball is? On the ceiling? It's not a lamp I Come on! Come on!
                        It's a wonder when you're killed as Hamlet that you
                        don't stay dead. You are. You're really dead now, you
                        know. Move! Move!" and so it would go until finally the poor
                        thespian, no match for his master and beset by flying balls, landing upon
                        his neck, ear, stomach, finally gave up and cried:
                    "Well, I can't go any faster than I can, can I? I
                        can't do any more than I can!"
                    "Ah, go on! Go back into the chorus!" called his host, who
                        now abandoned him. "Get somebody from the baby class to play
                        marbles with you," and he called another.
                    By now, as may well be imagined, I was fairly stirred up as to the
                        probabilities of the situation. He might call me! The man who was playing
                        opposite mea small, decayed person who chose me, I think, because he knew I
                        was new, innocuous and probably awkwardseemed to realize my thoughts as well
                        as his own. By lively exercise with me he was doing his utmost to create an
                        impression of great and valuable effort here. "Come on,
                        let's play fast so he won't notice us," he said
                        most pathetically at one point. You would have thought I had known him all
                        my life.
                    But he didn't call usnot this morning at any rate. Whether owing to
                        our efforts or the fact that I at least was too insignificant, too obscure,
                        we escaped. He did reach me, however, on the fourth or fifth day, and no
                        spindling failure could have done worse. I was struck and tripped and
                        pounded until I all but fell prone upon the floor, half convinced that I was
                        being killed, but I was not. I was merely sent stumbling and drooping back
                        to the sidelines to recover while he tortured some one else. But the names
                        he called me! The comments on my none too smoothly articulated bonesand my
                        alleged  mind! As in my schooldays when, a
                        laggard in the fierce and seemingly malevolent atmosphere in which I was
                        taught my A B C's, I crept shamefacedly and beaten from the scene.
                    It was in the adjoining bathroom, where the host daily personally
                        superintended the ablutions of his guests, that even more of his remarkable
                        method was revealed. Here a goodly portion of the force of his method was
                        his skill in removing any sense of ability, agility, authority or worth from
                        those with whom he dealt. Apparently to him, in his strength and energy,
                        they were all children, weaklings, failures, numbskulls, no matter what they
                        might be in the world outside. They had no understanding of the most
                        important of their possessions, their bodies. And here again, even more than
                        in the gymnasium, they were at the disadvantage of feeling themselves
                        spectacles, for here they were naked. However grand an osseous, leathery
                        lawyer or judge or doctor or politician or society man may look out in the
                        world addressing a jury or a crowd or walking in some favorite place,
                        glistening in his raiment, here, whiskered, thin of legs, arms and neck,
                        with bulging brow and stripped not only of his grown but everything else
                        this side of his skin well, draw your own conclusion. For after performing
                        certain additional exercisesone hundred times up on your toes, one hundred
                        times (if you could) squatting to your knees, one hundred times throwing
                        your arms out straight before you from your chest or up from your shoulders
                        or out at right angles, right and left from your body and back to your hips
                        until your fingers touched and the sweat once more ranyou were then ready to
                        be told (for once in your life) how to swiftly and agilely take a bath.
                    "Well, now, you're ready, are you?" this to a
                        noble jurist who, like myself perhaps, had arrived only the day before.
                        "Come on, now. Now you have just ten seconds in which to jump under
                        the water and get yourself wet all over, twenty seconds in which to jump out
                        and soap yourself thoroughly,  ten seconds in
                        which to get back in again and rinse off all the soap, and twenty seconds in
                        which to rub and dry your skin thoroughlynow start!"
                    The distinguished jurist began, but instead of following the advice given him
                        for rapid action huddled himself in a shivering position under the water and
                        stood all but inert despite the previous explanation of the host, that the
                        sole, method of escaping the weakening influence of cold water was by
                        counteracting it with activity, when it would prove beneficial.
                    He was such a noble, stalky, bony affair, his gold eye-glasses laid aside for
                        the time being, his tweeds and carefully laundered linen all dispensed with
                        during his stay here. As he came, meticulously and gingerly and quite undone
                        by his efforts, from under the water, where he had been most roughly urged
                        by Culhane, I hoped that he and not I would continue to be seized upon by
                        this savage who seemed to take infinite delight in disturbing the social and
                        intellectual poise of us all.
                    "Soap yourself!" exclaimed the latter most harshly now that
                        the bather was, out in the room once more. "Soap your chest! Soap
                        your stomach! Soap your arms, damn it! Soap your arms! And don't
                        rub them all day either! Now soap your legs, damn it! Soap your legs!
                        Don't you know how to soap your legs? Don't stand there
                        all day! Soap your legs! Now turn round and soap your backsoap your back!
                        For Christ's sake, soap your back! Do it quickquick! Now come back
                        under the water again and see if you can get it off. Don't act as
                        though you were cold molasses! Move! Move! Lord, you act as though you had
                        all dayas though you had never taken a bath in your life! I never saw such
                        an old poke. You come up here and expect me to do some things for you, and
                        then you stand around as though you were made of bone! Quick now,
                        move!"
                    The noble jurist did as demandedthat is, as quickly as he couldonly the
                        mental inadequacy and feebleness which  he
                        displayed before all the others, of course, was the worst of his cruel
                        treatment here, and in this as in many instances it cut deep. So often it
                        was the shock to one's dignity more than anything else which hurt
                        so, to be called an old poke when one was perhaps a grave and reverent
                        senior, or to be told that one was made of bone when one was a famous doctor
                        or merchant. Once under the water this particular specimen had begun by
                        nervously rubbing his hands and face in order to get the soap off, and when
                        shouted at and abused for that had then turned his attention to one other
                        spotthe back of his left forearm.
                    Mine host seemed enraged. "Well, well!" he exclaimed
                        irascibly, watching him as might a hawk. "Are you going to spend
                        all day rubbing that one spot? For God's sake, don't you
                        know enough to rub your whole body and get out from under the water? Move!
                        Move! Rub your chest! Rub your belly! Hell, rub your back! Rub your toes and
                        get out!"
                    When routed from the ludicrous effort of vigorously rubbing one spot he was
                        continually being driven on to some other, as though his body were some vast
                        complex machine which he had never rightly understood before. He was very
                        much flustered of course and seemed wholly unable to grasp how it was done,
                        let alone please his exacting host.
                    "Come on!" insisted the latter finally and wearily.
                        "Get out from under the water. A lot you know about washing
                        yourself! For a man who has been on the bench for fifteen years
                        you're the dullest person I ever met. If you bathe like that at
                        home, how do you keep clean? Come on out and dry yourself!"
                    The distinguished victim, drying himself rather ruefully on an exceedingly
                        rough towel, looked a little weary and disgusted. "Such
                        language!" some one afterwards said he said to some one else.
                        "He's not used to dealing with gentlemen,  that's plain. The man talks like a
                        blackguard. And to think we pay for such things! Well, well! I'll
                        not stand it, I'm afraid. I've had about enough.
                        It's positively revolting, positively revolting!" But he
                        stayed on, just the samesecond thoughts, a good breakfast, his own physical
                        needs. At any rate weeks later he was still there and in much better shape
                        physically if not mentally.
                    About the second or third day I witnessed another such spectacle, which made
                        me laughonly not in my host's presencenay, verily! For into this
                        same chamber had come another distinguished personage, a lawyer or society
                        man, I couldn't tell which, who was washing himself rather
                        leisurely, as was not the prescribed way, when suddenly he
                        was spied by mine host, who was invariably instructing some one in this
                        swift one-minute or less system. Now he eyed the operation narrowly for a
                        few seconds, then came over and exclaimed:
                    "Wash your toes, can't you? Wash your toes! Can't
                        you wash your toes?"
                    The skilled gentleman, realizing that he was now living under very different
                        conditions from those to which presumably he was accustomed, reached down
                        and began to rub the tops of his toes but without any desire apparently to
                        widen the operation.
                    "Here!" called the host, this time much more sharply,
                        "I said wash your toes, not the outside of them! Soap them!
                        Don't you know how to wash your toes yet? You're old
                        enough, God knows! Wash between 'em! Wash under
                        'em!"
                    "Certainly I know how to wash my toes," replied the other
                        irritably and straightening up, "and what's more,
                        I'd like you to know that I am a gentleman."
                    "Well, then, if you're a gentleman," retorted the
                        other, "you ought to know how to wash your toes. Wash
                        'emand don't talk back!"
                    
                    "Pah!" exclaimed the bather now, looking twice as
                        ridiculous as before. "I'm not used to having such
                        language addressed to me."
                    "I can't help that," said Culhane. "If
                        you knew how to wash your toes perhaps you wouldn't have to have
                        such language addressed to you."
                    "Oh, hell!" fumed the other, "This is positively
                        outrageous! I'll leave the place, by George!"
                    "Very well," rejoined the other, "only before your
                        go you'll have to wash your toes!"
                    And he did, the host standing by and calmly watching the performance until it
                        was finally completed.
                    It was just this atmosphere which made the place the most astonishing in
                        which I have ever been. It seemed to be drawing the celebrated and the
                        successful as a magned might iron, and yet it offered conditions which one
                        might presume they would be most opposed to. No one here was really any one,
                        however much he might be outside. Our host was all. He had a great blazing
                        personality which dominated everybody, and he did not hesitate to show
                        before one and all that he did so do.
                    Breakfast here consisted of a cereal, a chop and coffeeplentiful but very
                        plain, I thought. After breakfast, between eight-thirty and eleven, we were
                        free to do as we chose: write letters, pack our bags if we were leaving, do
                        up our laundry to be sent out, read, or merely sit about. At eleven, or
                        tenthirty, according to the nature of the exercise, one had to join a group,
                        either one that was to do the long or short block, as they were known here,
                        or one that was to ride horseback, all exercises being so timed that by
                        proper execution one would arrive at the bathroom door in time to bathe,
                        dress and take ten minutes' rest before luncheon. These exercises
                        were simple enough in themselves, consisting, as they did in the case of the
                        long and the short blocks (the long block seven, the short four miles in
                        length), of our walking, or walking and running  betimes, about or over courses laid up hill and down dale, over or
                        through unpaved mudroads in many instances, along dry or wet beds of brooks
                        or streams, and across stony or weedy fields, often still damp with dew or
                        the spring rains. But in most cases, when people had not taken any regular
                        exercise for a long time, this was by no means easy. The first day I thought
                        I should never make it, and I was by no means a poor walker. Others, the new
                        ones especially, often gave out and had to be sent for, or came in an hour
                        late to be most severely and irritatingly ragged by the host. He seemed to
                        all but despise weakness and had apparently a thousand disagreeable ways of
                        showing it.
                    "If you want to see what poor bags of mush some people can
                        become," he once said in regard to some poor specimen who had
                        seemingly had great difficulty in doing the short block, "look at
                        this. Here comes a man sent out to do four measly country miles in fifty
                        minutes, and look at him. You'd think he was going to die. He
                        probably thinks so himself. In New York he'd do seventeen miles in
                        a night running from barroom to barroom or one lobster palace to
                        anotherthat's a good name for them, by the wayand never say a word.
                        But out here in the country, with plenty of fresh air and a night's
                        rest and a good breakfast, he can't even do four miles in fifty
                        minutes! Think of it! And he probably thinks of himself as a manboasts
                        before his friends, or his wife, anyhow. Lord!"
                    A day or two later there arrived here a certain major of the United States
                        Army, a large, broad-chested, rather pompous person of about forty-eight or
                        -nine, who from taking his ease in one sinecure and another had finally
                        reached the place where he was unable to endure certain tests (or he thought
                        so) which were about to be made with a view to retiring certain officers
                        grown fat in the service. As he explained to Culhane, and the latter was
                        always open and ribald afterward in his 
                        comments on those who offered explanations of any kind, his plan was to take
                        the course here in order to be able to make the difficult tests later.
                    Culhane resented this, I think. He resented people using him or his methods
                        to get anywhere, do anything more in life than he could do, and yet he
                        received them. He felt, and I think in the main that he was right, that they
                        looked down on him because of his lowly birth and purely material and
                        mechanical career, and yet having attained some distinction by it he could
                        not forego this work which raised him, in a way, to a position of dominance
                        over these people. Now the sight of presumably so efficient a person in need
                        of aid or exercise, to be built up, was all that was required to spur him on
                        to the most waspish or wolfish attitude imaginable. In part at least he
                        argued, I think (for in the last analysis he was really too wise and
                        experienced to take any such petty view, although there is a subconscious
                        "past-lack" motivating impulse in all our views), that
                        here he was, an ex-policeman, ex-wrestler, exprize fighter, ex-private,
                        ex-waiter, beef-carrier, bouncer, trainer; and here was this grand major,
                        trained at West Point, who actually didn't know any more about life
                        or how to take care of his body than to be compelled to come here, broken
                        down at forty-eight, whereas he, because of his stamina and Spartan energy,
                        had been able to survive inperfect condition until sixty and was now in a
                        position to rebuild all these men and wastrels and to control this great
                        institution. And to a certain extent he was right, although he seemed to
                        forget or not to know that he was not the creator of his own great strength,
                        by any means, impulses and tendencies over which he had no control having
                        arranged for that.
                    However that may be, here was the major a suppliant for his services, and
                        here was he, Culhane, and although the major was paying well for his minute
                        room and his probably greatly decreased diet, still Culhane could not resist
                        the temptation to  make a show of him, to
                        picture him as the more or less pathetic example that he was, in order
                        perhaps that he, Culhane, might shine by contrast. Thus on the first day,
                        having sent him around the short block with the others, it was found at
                        twelve, when the "joggers" were expected to return, and
                        again at twelve-thirty when they were supposed to take their places at the
                        luncheon table, that the heavy major had not arrived. He had been seen and
                        passed by all, of course. After the first mile or two probably he had given
                        out and was making his way as best he might up hill and down dale, or along
                        some more direct road, to the "shop," or maybe he had
                        dropped out entirely, as some did, via a kindly truck or farmer's
                        wagon, and was on his way to the nearest railway station.
                    At any rate, as Culhane sat down at his very small private table, which stood
                        in the center of the dining-room and far apart from the others, (a vantage
                        point, as it were), he looked about and, not seeing the new guest, inquired,
                        "Has any one seen that alleged army officer who arrived here this
                        morning?"
                    No one could say anything more than that they had left him two or three miles
                        back.
                    "I thought so," he said tersely. "There you have a
                        fine example of the desk general and majorwe had 'em in the armymen
                        who sit in a swivel chair all day, wear a braided uniform and issue orders
                        to other people. You'd think a man like that who had been trained
                        at West Point and seen service in the Philippines would have sense enough to
                        keep himself in condition. Not at all. As soon as they get a little way up
                        in their profession they want to sit around hotel-grills or society
                        ballrooms and show off, tell how wonderful they are. Here's a man,
                        an army officer, in such rotten shape that if I sent a good horse after him
                        now it's ten to one he couldn't get on him. I'll
                        have to send a truck or some such thing."
                    He subsided. About an hour later the major did appear, much the worse for
                        wear. A groom with a horse had been  sent out
                        after him, and, as the latter confided to some one afterward, he
                        "had to help the major on." From that time on, on the
                        short block and the long, as well as on those horseback tours which every
                        second or third morning we were supposed to take, the major was his especial
                        target. He loved to pick on him, to tell him that he was "nearly
                        all guts"a phrase which literally sickened me at that timeto ask
                        him how he expected to stay in the army if he couldn't do this or
                        that, what good was he to the army, how could any soldier respect a thing
                        like him, and so on ad infinitum until, while at first I
                        pitied the major, later on I admired his pluck. Culhane foisted upon him his
                        sorriest and boniest nag, the meanest animal he could find, yet he never
                        complained; and although he forced on him all the foods he knew the major
                        could not like, still there was no complaint; he insisted that he should be
                        out and around of an afternoon when most of us lay about, allowed him no
                        drinks whatever, although he was accustomed to them. The major, as I learned
                        afterwards, stayed not six but twelve weeks and passed the tests which
                        permitted him to remain in the army.
                    But to return to Culhane himself. The latter's method always
                        contained this element of nag and pester which, along with his brazen
                        reliance on and pride in his brute strength at sixty, made all these others
                        look so puny and ineffectual. They might have brains and skill but here they
                        were in his institution, more or less undone nervously and physically, and
                        here he was, cold, contemptuous, not caring much whether they came, stayed
                        or went, and laughing at them even as they raged. Now and then it was
                        rumored that he found some single individual in whom he would take an
                        interest, but not often. In the main I think he despised them one and all
                        for the puny machines they were. He even despised life and the pleasures and
                        dissipations or swinish indolence which, in his judgment, characterized most
                        men. I recall once, for instance,  his telling
                        us how as a private in the United States Army when the division of which he
                        was a unit was shut up in winter quarters, huddled about stoves, smoking
                        (as, he characterized them) "filthy pipes" or chewing
                        tobacco and spitting, actually lousy, and never changing their clothes for
                        weeks on endhow he, revolting at all this and the disease and fevers
                        ensuing, had kept out of doors as much as possible, even in the coldest
                        weather, and finding no other way of keeping clean the single shift of
                        underwear and the one uniform he possessed he had, every other day or so,
                        washed all, uniform and underwear, with or without soap as
                        condition's might compel, in a nearby stream, often breaking the
                        ice to get to the water, and dancing about, naked in the cold, running and
                        jumping, while they dried on bushes or the branch of a tree.
                    "Those poor rats," he added most contemptuously,
                        "used to sit inside and wonder at me or laugh and jeer, hovering
                        over their stoves, but a lot of them died that very winter, and here I am
                        today."
                    And well we knew it. I used to study the faces of many of the puffy,
                        gelatinous souls, so long confined to their comfortable offices, restaurants
                        and homes that two hours on horseback all but wore them out, and wonder how
                        this appealed to them. I think that in the main they took it as an
                        illustration of either one of two things: insanity, or giant and therefore
                        not-to-be-imitated strength.
                    But in regard to them Culhane was by no means so tolerant. One day, as I
                        recall, there arrived at the sanitarium a stout and mushy-looking Hebrew,
                        with a semi-bald pate, protruding paunch and fat arms and legs, who applied
                        to Culhane for admission. And, as much to irritate his other guests, I
                        think, as to torture this particular specimen into some semblance of
                        vitality, he admitted him. And thereafter, from the hour he entered until he
                        left about the time I did, Culhane seemed to follow him with a wolfish and
                        savage, idea. He gave him a  most damnable and
                        savage horse, one that kicked and bit, and at mounting time would't
                        place Mr. Itzky (I think his name was) up near the front of the procession
                        where he could watch him. Always at mount-time, when we were permitted to
                        ride, there was inside the great stable a kind of preliminary military
                        inspection of all our accouterments, seeing that we had to saddle and bridle
                        and bring forth our own steeds. This particular person could not saddle a
                        horse very well nor put on his bit and bridle. The animal was inclined to
                        rear and plunge when he came near, to fix him with an evil eye and bite at
                        him.
                    And above all things Culhane seemed to value strain of this kind. If he could
                        just make his guests feel the pressure of necessity in connection with their
                        work he was happy. To this end he would employ the most contemptuous and
                        grilling comment. Thus to Mr. Itzky he was most unkind. He would look over
                        all most cynically, examining the saddles and bridles, and then say,
                        "Oh, I see you haven't learned how to tighten a belly-band
                        yet," or "I do believe you have your saddle hind-side to.
                        You would if you could, that's one thing sure. How do you expect a
                        horse to be sensible or quiet when he knows that he isn't saddled
                        right? Any horse knows that much, and whether he has an ass for a rider.
                        I'd kick and bite too if I were some of these horses, having a lot
                        of damned fools and wasters to pack all over the country. Loosen that belt
                        and fasten it right" (there might be nothing wrong with it)
                        "and move your saddle up. Do you want to sit over the
                        horse's rump?"
                    Then would come the fateful moment of mounting. There was of course the
                        accepted and perfect wayhis way: left foot in stirrup, an easy balanced
                        spring and light descent into the seat. One should be able to slip the right
                        foot into the right stirrup with the same motion of mounting. But imagine
                        fifty, sixty, seventy men, all sizes, weights and differing conditions of
                        health and mood. A number of these people had never  ridden a horse before coming here and were as nervous and
                        frightened as children. Such mounts! Such fumbling around, once they were in
                        their saddles, for the right stirrup! And all the while Culhane would be
                        sitting out front like an army captain on the only decent steed in the
                        place, eyeing us with a look of infinite and weary contempt that served to
                        increase our troubles a thounsandfold.
                    "Well, you're all on, are you? You all do it so gracefully
                        I like to sit here and admire you. Hulbert there throws his leg over his
                        horse's back so artistically that he almost kicks his teeth out.
                        And Effingham does his best to fall off on the other side. And
                        where's Itzky? I don't even see him. Oh, yes, there he is.
                        Well" (this to Itzky, frantically endeavoring to get one fat foot
                        in a stirrup and pull himself up), "what about you? Can't
                        you get your leg that high? Here's, a man who for twenty-five years
                        has been running a cloak-and-suit business and employing five hundred
                        people, but he can't get on a horse! Imagine! Five hundred people
                        dependent on that for their living!" (At this point, say, Itzky
                        succeeds in mounting.) "Well, he's actually on! Now see if
                        you can stick while we ride a block or two. You'll find the right
                        stirrup, Itzky, just a little forward of your horse's belly on the
                        right sidesee? A fine bunch this is to lead out through a
                        gentleman's country! Hell, no wonder I've got a bad
                        reputation throughout this section! Well, forward, and see if you can keep
                        from falling off."
                    Then we were out through the stable-door and the privet gate at a smart trot,
                        only to burst into a headlong gallop a little farther on down the road. To
                        the seasoned riders it was all well enough, but to beginners, those nervous
                        about horses, fearful about themselves! The first day, not having ridden in
                        years and being uncertain as to my skill, I could scarcely stay on. Several
                        days later, I by then having become a reasonably seasoned rider, it was Mr.
                        Itzky who appeared  on the scene, and after
                        him various others. On this particular trip I am thinking of, Mr. Itzky fell
                        or rolled off and could not again mount. He was miles from the repair shop
                        and Culhane, discovering his plight, was by no means sympathetic. We had a
                        short ride back to where he sat lamely by the roadside viewing
                        disconsolately the cavalcade and the country in general.
                    "Well, what's the matter with you now?" It was
                        Culhane, eyeing him most severely.
                    "I hef hurt my foot. I kent stay on."
                    "You mean you'd rather walk, do you, and lead your
                        horse?"
                    "Vell, I kent ride."
                    "All right, then, you lead your horse back to the stable if you want
                        any lunch, and hereafter you run with the babyclass on the short block until
                        you think you can ride without falling off. What's the good of my
                        keeping a stable of first-class horses at the service of a lot of mush-heads
                        who don't even know how to use 'em? All they do is ruin
                        'em. In a week or two, after a good horse is put in the stable,
                        he's not fit for a gentleman to ride. They pull and haul and kick
                        and beat, when as a matter of fact the horse has a damned sight more sense
                        than they have."
                    We rode off, leaving Itzky alone. The men on either side of mewe were riding
                        three abreastscoffed under their breath at the statement that we were
                        furnished decent horses. "The nerve! This nag!"
                        "This bag of bones!" "To think a thing like this
                        should be called a horse!" But there were no outward murmurs and no
                        particular sympathy for Mr. Itzky. He was a fat stuff, a sweat-shop
                        manufacturer, they would bet; let him walk and sweat.
                    So much for sympathy in this gay realm where all were seeking to restore
                        their own little bodies, whatever happened.
                    So many of these men varied so greatly in their looks,  capacities and troubles that they were always amusing. Thus I
                        recall one lean iron manufacturer, the millionaire president of a great
                        "frog and switch" company, who had come on from Kansas
                        City, troubled with anaemia, neurasthenia, "nervous derangement of
                        this heart" and various other things. He was over fifty, very much
                        concerned about himself, his family, his business, his friends; anxious to
                        obtain the benefits of this celebrated course of which he had heard so much.
                        Walking or running near me on his first day, he took occasion to make
                        inquiries in regard to Culhane, the life here, and later on confidences as
                        to his own condition. It appeared that his chief trouble was his heart, a
                        kind of phantom disturbance which made him fear that he was about to drop
                        dead and which came and went, leaving him uncertain as to whether he had it
                        or not. On entering he had confided to Culhane the mysteries of his case,
                        and the latter had examined him, pronouncing him ("Rather
                        roughly," as he explained to me), quite fit to do "all the
                        silly work he would have to do here."
                    Nevertheless while we were out on the short block his heart was hurting him.
                        At the same time it had been made rather clear to him that if he wished to
                        stay here he would have to fulfill all the obligations imposed. After a mile
                        or two or three of quick walking and jogging he was saying to me,
                        "You know, I'm not really sure that I can do this.
                        It's very severe, more so than I thought. My heart is not doing
                        very well. It feels very fluttery."
                    "But," I said, "if he told you you could stand it,
                        you can, I'm sure. It's not very likely he'd say
                        you could if you couldn't. He examined you, didn't he? I
                        don't believe he'd deliberately put a strain on any one
                        who couldn't stand it."
                    "Yes," he admitted doubtfully, "that's
                        true perhaps."
                    Still he continued to complain and complain and to grow more and more
                        worried, until finally he slowed up and was lost in the background.
                    
                    Reaching the gymnasium at the proper time I bathed and dressed myself quickly
                        and waited on the balcony over the bathroom to see what would happen in this
                        case. As a rule Culhane stood in or near the door at this time, having just
                        returned from some route or "block" himself, to see how
                        the others were faring. And he was there when the iron manufacturer came
                        limping up, fifteen minutes late, one hand over his heart, the other to his
                        mouth, and exclaiming as he drew near, "I do believe, Mr. Culhane,
                        that I can't stand this. I'm afraid there is something the
                        matter with my heart. It's fluttering so."
                    "To hell with your heart! Didn't I tell you there was
                        nothing the matter with it? Get into the bath!"
                    The troubled manufacturer, overawed or reassured as the case might be,
                        entered the bath and ten minutes later might have been seen entering the
                        dining-room, as comfortable apparently as any one. Afterwards he confessed
                        to me on one of our jogs that there was something about Culhane which gave him confidence and made him believe that there
                        wasn't anything wrong with his heartwhich there wasn't, I
                        presume.
                    The intensely interesting thing about Culhane was this different, very
                        original and forthright if at times brutal point of view. It was a blazing
                        material world of which he was the center, the sun, and yet always I had the
                        sense of very great life. With no knowledge of or interest in the superior
                        mental sciences or arts or philosophies, still he seemed to suggest and even
                        live them. He was in his way an exemplification of that ancient Greek
                        regimen and stark thought which, brought back the ten thousand from Cunaxa.
                        He seemed even to suggest in his rough way historical perspective and
                        balance. He knew men, and apparently he sensed how at best and at bottom
                        life was to be lived, with not too much emotional or appetitive swaying in
                        any one direction, and not too little either.
                    
                    Yet in "trapseing" about this particular realm each day
                        with ministers, lawyers, doctors, actors, manufacturers, papa's or
                        mamma's young hopefuls and petted heirs, young scapegraces and
                        so-called "society men" of the extreme "upper
                        crust," stuffed and plethoric with money and as innocent of sound
                        knowledge or necessary energy in some instances as any one might well be,
                        one could not help speculating as to how it was that such a man, as
                        indifferent and all but discourteous as this one, could attract them (and so
                        many) to him. They came from, all parts of Americathe Pacific, the Gulf, the
                        Atlantic and Canadaand yet, although they did not relish him or his
                        treatment of them, once here they stayed. Walking or running or idling about
                        with them one could always hear from one or another that Culhane was too
                        harsh, a "bounder," an "upstart," a
                        "cheap pugilist" or "wrestler" at best
                        (I myself thought so at times when I was angry), yet here they were, and
                        here I was, and staying. He was low, vulgaryet here we were. And yet,
                        meditating on him, I began to think that he was really one of the most
                        remarkable men I had ever known, for these people he dealt with were of all
                        the most difficult to deal with. In the main they were of that order or
                        condition of mind which springs from (1), too much wealth too easily
                        acquired or inherited; or (2), from a blazing material success, the cause of
                        which was their own savage self-interested viewpoint. Hence a colder and in
                        some respects a more critical group of men I have never known. Most of them
                        had already seen so much of life in a libertine way that there was little
                        left to enjoy. They sniffed at almost everything, Culhane included, and yet
                        they were obviously drawn to him. I tried to explain this to myself on the
                        ground that there is some iron power in some people which literally compels
                        this, whether one will or no; or that they were in the main so tired of life
                        and so truly selfish and egotistic that it require! some such different iron
                        or caviar mood plus such, a threatening regimen  to make them really take an interest. Sick as they were, he was about the
                        only thing left on which they could sharpen their teeth with any result.
                    As I have said, a part of Culhane's general scheme was to arrange
                        the starting time for the walks and jogs about the long and short blocks so
                        that if one moved along briskly he reached the sanitarium at twelve-thirty
                        and had a few minutes in which to bathe and cool off and change his clothes
                        before entering the dining-room, where, if not at the bathroom door
                        beforehand, Culhane would be waiting, seated at his little table, ready to
                        keep watch on the time and condition of all those due. Thus one day, a group
                        of us having done the long block in less time than we should have devoted to
                        it, came in panting and rejoicing that we had cut the record by seven
                        minutes. We did not know that he was around. But in the dining-room as we
                        entered he scoffed at our achievement.
                    "You think you're smart, don't you?" he
                        said sourly and without any preliminary statement as to how he knew we had
                        done it in less time. "You come out here and pay me one hundred a
                        week and then you want to be cute and play tricks with your own money and
                        health. I want you to remember just one thing: my reputation is just as much
                        involved with the results here as your money. I don't need
                        anybody's money, and I do need my orders obeyed. Now you all have
                        watches. You just time yourselves and do that block in the time required. If
                        you can't do it, that's one thing; I can forgive a man too
                        weak or sick to do it. But I haven't any use for a mere smart
                        aleck, and I don't want any more of it, see?"
                    That luncheon was very sad.
                    Another thing in connection with these luncheons and dinners, which were
                        sharply timed to the minute, were these crisp table speeches, often made in re some particular offender or  his offense, at other times mere sarcastic comments on life in
                        general and the innate cussedness of human nature, which amused at the same
                        time that they were certain to irritate some. For who is it that is not
                        interested in hearing the peccadilloes of his neighbor aired?
                    Thus while I was there, there was a New York society man by the name of
                        Blake, who unfortunately was given to severe periods of alcoholism, the
                        results of which were, after a time, nervous disorders which, sent him here.
                        In many ways the was as amiable and courteous and considerate a soul as one
                        could meet anywhere. He had that smooth, gracious something about himgood
                        nature, for one thing, a kind of understanding and sympathy for various
                        forms of lifewhich left him highly noncensorious, if genially examining at
                        times. But his love of drink, or rather his mild attempts here, to arrange
                        some method by which in this droughty world he could obtain a little,
                        aroused in Culhane not so much opposition as an amused contempt, for at
                        bottom I think he really liked the man. Blake was so orderly, so sincere in
                        his attempts to fulfill conditions, only about once every week or so he
                        would suggest that he be allowed to go to White Plains or Rye, or even New
                        York, on some errand or othermost of which requests were promptly and nearly
                        always publicly refused. For although Culhane had his private suite at one
                        end of the great building, where one might suppose one might go to make a
                        private plea, still one could never find him there. He refused to receive
                        complaints or requests or visits of any kind there. If you wanted to speak
                        to him you had to do it when he was with the group in its entiretya
                        commonsense enough policy. But just the same there were those who had
                        reasonable requests or complaints, and these, by a fine intuition as to who
                        was who in this institution and what might be expected of each one, he
                        managed to hear very softly, withdrawing slowly as they talked or inviting
                        them into the office. In the main  however the
                        requests were very much like those of Blakemen who wanted to get off
                        somewhere for a day or two, feeling, as they did after a week or two or
                        three, especially fit and beginning! to think no doubt of the various
                        comforts and pleasures which the city offered.
                    But to all these he was more or less adamant. By hook or by crook, by special
                        arrangements with friends or agents in nearby towns and the principal showy
                        resorts of New York, he managed to know, providing they did leave the
                        grounds, either with or without his consent, about where they were and what
                        they had done, and in case any of his rules or their agreements were broken
                        their privileges were thereafter cut off or they were promptly ejected,
                        their trunks being set out on the roadway in front of the estate and they
                        being left to make their way to shelter elsewhere as best they might.
                    On one occasion, however, Blake had been allowed to go to New York over
                        Saturday and Sunday to attend to some urgent business, as he said, he on his
                        honor having promised to avoid the white lights. Nevertheless he did not
                        manage so to do but instead in some comfortable section of that region, was
                        seen drinking enough to last him until perhaps he should have another
                        opportunity to return to the city.
                    On his return to the "shop" on Monday morning or late
                        Sunday night, Culhane pretended not to see him until noonday lunch, when,
                        his jog over the long block done with and his bath taken, he came dapperly
                        into the dining-room, wishing to look as innocent and fit as possible. But
                        Culhane was there before him at his little table in the center of the room,
                        and patting the head of one of the two pure-blooded collies that always
                        followed him about on the grounds or in the house, began as follows:
                    "A dog," he said very distinctly and in his most cynical
                        tone and apparently apropos of nothing, which usually augured that the
                        lightning of his criticism was about to strike somewhere,  "is so much better than the average
                        man that it's an insult to the dog to compare them. The
                        dog's really decent. He has no sloppy vices. You set a plate of
                        food before a regularly-fed, blooded dog, and he won't think of
                        gorging himself sick or silly. He eats what he needs, and then stops. So
                        does a cat" (which is of course by no means true, but still).
                        "A dog doesn't get a red nose from drinking too
                        much." By now all eyes were turning in the direction of Blake,
                        whose nose was faintly tinged. "He doesn't get gonorrhea
                        or syphilis." The united glances veered in the direction of three
                        or four young scapegraces of wealth, all of whom were suspected of these
                        diseases. "He doesn't hang around hotel bars and swill and
                        get his tongue thick and talk about how rich he is or how old his family
                        is." (This augured that Blake did such things, which I doubt, but
                        once more all eyes were shifted to him.) "He doesn't break
                        his word. Within the limits of his poor little brain he's faithful.
                        He does what he thinks he's called upon to do.
                    "But you take a manmore especially a gentlemanone of these fellows
                        who is always very pointed in emphasizing that he is a gentleman"
                        (which Blake never did). "Let him inherit eight or ten millions,
                        give him a college education, let him be socially well connected, and what
                        does he do? Not a damned thing if he can help it except contract vicesrun
                        from one saloon to another, one gambling house to another, one girl to
                        another, one meal to another. He doesn't need to know anything
                        necessarily. He may be the lowest dog physically and in every other way, and
                        still he's a gentlemanbecause he has money, wears spats and a high
                        hat. Why, I've seen fifty poor boob prize fighters in my time who
                        could put it all over most of the so-called gentlemen I have ever seen. They
                        kept their word. They tried to be physically fit. They tried to stand up in
                        the world and earn their own living and be some body." (He was
                        probably thinking of himself.) "But a  gentleman wants to boast of his past and his family, to tell you that he
                        must go to the city on businesshis lawyers or some directors, want to see
                        him. Then he swills around at hotel bars, stays with some of his lady
                        whores, and then comes back here and expects me to pull him into shape
                        again, to make his nose a little less red. He thinks he can use my place to
                        fall back on when he can't go any longer, to fix him up to do some
                        more swilling later on.
                    "Well, I want to serve notice on all so-called gentlemen here, and
                            one gentleman in particular" (and he heavily
                        and sardonically emphasized the words), "that it won't do.
                        This isn't a hospital attached to a whorehouse or a saloon. And as
                        for the trashy little six hundred paid here, I don't need it.
                        I've turned away more men who have been here once or twice and have
                        shown me that they were just using this place and me as something to help
                        them go on with their lousy drinking and carousing, than would fill this
                        building. Sensible men know it. They don't try to use me.
                        It's only the wastrels, or their mothers or fathers who bring their
                        boys and husbands and cry, who try to use me, and I take 'em once
                        or twice, but not oftener. When a man goes out of here cured, I know he is
                        cured. I never want to see him again. I want him to go out in the world and
                        stand up. I don't want him to come back here in six months
                        sniveling to be put in shape again. He disgusts me. He makes me sick. I feel
                        like ordering him off the place, and I do, and that's the end of
                        him. Let him go and bamboozle somebody else. I've shown him all I
                        know. There's no mystery. He can do as much for himself, once
                        he's been here, as I can. If he won't, well and good. And
                        I'm saying one thing more: There's one man here to whom
                        this particularly applies today. This is his last call. He's been
                        here twice. When he goes out this time he can't come back. Now see
                        if some of you can remember some of the things I've been telling
                        you."
                    
                    He subsided and opened his little pint of wine.
                    Another day while I was there he began as follows:
                    "If there's one class of men that needs to be improved in
                        this country, it's lawyers. I don't know why it is, but
                        there's something in the very nature of the work of a lawyer which
                        appears to make him cynical and to want to wear a know-it-all look. Most
                        lawyers are little more than sharper crooks than the crooks they have to
                        deal with. They're always trying to get in on some case or other
                        where they have to outwit the law, save some one from getting what he justly
                        deserves, and then they are supposed to be honest and high-minded! Think of
                        it! To judge by some of the specimens I get up here," and then some
                        lawyer in the place would turn a shrewd inquiring glance in his direction or
                        steadfastly gaze at his plate or out the window, while the others stared at
                        him, you would think they were the salt of the earth or that they were
                        following a really noble profession or that they were above or better than
                        other men in their abilities. Well, if being conniving and tricky are fine
                        traits, I suppose they are, but personally I can't see It.
                        Generally speaking, they're physically the poorest, fish I get
                        here. They're slow and meditative and sallow, mostly because they
                        get too little exercise, I presume. And they're never direct and
                        enthusiastic in an argument. A lawyer always wants to stick in an
                        'if' or a 'but,' to get around you in
                        some way. He's never willing to answer you quickly or directly.
                        I've watched 'em now for nearly fifteen years, and
                        they're all more or less alike. They think they're very
                        individual and different, but they're not. Most of them
                        don't know nearly as much about life as a good, all-around business
                        or society man," this in the absence of any desire to discuss these
                        two breeds for the time being. "For the life of me I could never
                        see why a really attractive woman would ever want to marry a
                        lawyer"and so he would talk on, revealing one little unsatisfactory
                        trait after another in connection with the tribe,  sand-papering their raw places as it were, until you would
                        about conclude, supposing you had never heard him talk concerning any other
                        profession, that lawyers were the most ignoble, the prettiest, the most
                        inefficient physically and mentally, of all the men he had ever encountered;
                        and in his noble savage state there would not be one to disagree with him,
                        for he had such an animal, tiger-like mien that you had the feeling that
                        instead of an argument you would get a physical rip which would leave you
                        bleeding for days.
                    The next day, or a day or two or four or six lateraccording to his moodit
                        would be doctors or merchants or society men or politicians he would
                        discourse aboutand, kind heaven, what a drubbing they would get! He seemed
                        always to be meditating on the vulnerable points of his victims, anxious
                        (and yet presumably not) to show them what poor, fallible, shabby, petty and
                        all but drooling creatures they were. Thus in regard to merchants:
                    "The average man who has a little business of some kind, a factory
                        or a wholesale or brokerage house or a hotel or a restaurant, usually has a
                        distinctly middle-class mind." At this all the merchants and
                        manufacturers were likely to give a very sharp ear. "As a rule,
                        you'll find that they know just the one little line with which
                        they're connected, and nothing more. One man knows all about cloaks
                        and suits" (this may have been a slap at poor Itzky) "or
                        he knows a little something about leather goods or shoes or lamps or
                        furniture, and that's all he knows. If he's an American
                        he'll buckle down to that little business and work night and day,
                        sweat blood and make every one else connected with him sweat it, underpay
                        his employees, swindle his friends, half-starve himself and his family, in
                        order to get a few thousand dollars and seem as good as some one else who
                        has a few thousand. And yet he doesn't want to be different fromhe
                        wants to be just likethe other fellow. If some one in his line has a house
                             up on the Hudson or on Riverside Drive,
                        when he gets his money he wants to go there and live. If the fellow in his
                        line, or some other that he knows something about, belongs to a certain
                        club, he has to belong to it even if the club doesn't want him or
                        he wouldn't look well in it. He wants to have the same tailor, the
                        same grocer, smoke the same brand of cigars and go to the same summer resort
                        as the other fellow. They even want to look alike. God! And then when
                        they're just like every one else, they think they're
                        somebody. They haven't a single idea outside their line, and yet
                        because they've made money they want to tell other people how to
                        live and think. Imagine a rich butcher or cloak-maker, or any one else,
                        presuming to tell me how to think or live!"
                    He stared about him as though he saw many exemplifications of his picture
                        present. And it was always interesting to see how those whom his description
                        really did fit look as though he could not possibly be referring to them.
                    Of all types or professions that came here, I think he disliked doctors most.
                        The reason was of course that the work they did or were about to do in the
                        world bordered on that which he was trying to accomplish, and the chance
                        were that they sniffed at or at least critically examined what he was doing
                        with an eye to finding its weak spots. In many cases no doubt he fancied
                        that they were there to study and copy his methods and ideas, without having
                        the decency later on to attribute their knowledge to him. It was short
                        shrift for any one of them with ideas or "notions"
                        unfriendly to him advanced in his presence. For a little while during my
                        stay there was a smooth-faced, rather solid physically and decidedly
                        self-opinionated mentally, doctor who ate at the same small table as I and
                        who was never tired of airing his views, medical and otherwise. He confided
                        to me rather loftily that there was, to be sure, something to
                        Culhane's views and methods but that they were
                        "over-emphasized here, over-emphasized." Still,  one could over-emphasize the value of drugs
                        too. As for himself he had decided to achieve a happy medium if possible,
                        and for this reason (for one) he had come here to study Culhane.
                    As for Culhane, in spite of the young doctor's condescension and
                        understanding, or perhaps better yet because of it, he thoroughly disliked,
                        barely tolerated, him, and was never tired of commenting on little dancing
                        medics with their "pill cases" and easily acquired book
                        knowledge, boasting of their supposed learning "which somebody else
                        had paid for," as he once saidtheir fathers, of course. And when
                        they were sick, some of them at least, they had to come out here to him, or
                        they came to steal his theory and start a shabby grafting sanitarium of
                        their own. He knew them.
                    One noon we were at lunch. Occasionally before seating himself at his small
                        central table he would walk or glance about and, having good eyes, would spy
                        some little defect or delinquency somewhere and of course immediately act
                        upon it. One of the rules of the repair shop was that you were to eat what
                        was put before you, especially when it differed from what your table
                        companion received. Thus a fat man at a table with a lean one might receive
                        a small portion of lean meat, no potatoes and no bread or one little roll,
                        whereas his lean acquaintance opposite would be receiving a large portion of
                        fat meat, a baked or boiled potato, plenty of bread and butter, and possibly
                        a side, dish of some kind. Now it might well be, as indeed was often the
                        case, that each would be dissatisfied with his apportionment and would
                        attempt to change plates.
                    But this was the one thing that Culhane would not endure. So, upon one
                        occasion, passing near the table at which sat myself and the above-mentioned
                        doctor, table-mates for the time being, he noticed that he was not eating
                        his carrots, a dish which had been especially prepared for him, I imaginefor
                        if one unconsciously ignored certain things the first day or  two of his stay, those very things would be
                        all but rammed down his throat during the remainder of his stay; a thing
                        concerning which one guest and another occasionally cautioned newcomers.
                        However this may have been in this particular case, he noticed the uneaten
                        carrots and, pausing a moment, observed:
                    "What's the matter? Aren't you eating your
                        carrots?" We had almost finished eating.
                    "Who, me?" replied the medic, looking up. "Oh, no,
                        I never eat carrots, you know. I don't like them."
                    "Oh, don't you?" said Culhane sweetly.
                        "You don't like them, and so you don't eat them!
                        Well, suppose you eat them here. They may do you a little good just as a
                        change."
                    "But I never eat carrots," retorted the medic tersely, and
                        with a slight show of resentment or opposition, scenting perhaps a new
                        order.
                    "No, not outside perhaps, but here you do. You eat carrots here,
                        see?"
                    "Yes, but why should I eat them if I don't like them? They
                        don't agree with me. Must I eat something that doesn't
                        agree with me just because it's a rule or to please you?"
                    "To please me, or the carrots, or any damned thing you pleasebut eat
                        'em."
                    The doctor subsided. For a day or two he went about commenting or what a
                        farce the whole thing; was, how ridiculous to make any one eat what was not
                        suited to him, but just the same while he was there he ate them.
                    As for myself, I was very fond of large boiled potatoes and substantial
                        orders of fat and lean meat, and in consequence, having been so foolish as
                        to show this preference, I received but the weakest, most contemptible and
                        puling little spuds and pale orders of meatwith, it is true, plenty of other
                        "side dishes"; whereas a later table-mate of mine, a
                        distressed and  neurasthenic society man, was
                        receivingI soon learned he especially abhorred thempotatoes as big as my two
                        fists.
                    "Now look at that! Now look at that!" he often said
                        peevishly and with a kind of sickly whine in his voice when he saw one being
                        put before him. "He knows I don't like potatoes, and see
                        what I get! And look at the little bit of a thing he gives you!
                        It's a shame, the way he nags people, especially over this food
                        question. I don't think there's a thing to it. I
                        don't think eating a big potato does me a bit of good, or you the
                        little one, and yet I have to eat the blank-blank things or get out. And I
                        need to get on my feet just now."
                    "Well, cheer up," I said sympathetically and with an eye on
                        the large potato perhaps. "He isn't always looking, and we
                        can fix it. You mash up your big potato and put butter and salt on it, and
                        I'll do the same with my little one. Then when he's not
                        looking we'll shift."
                    "Oh, that's all right," he commented,
                        "but we'd better look out. If he sees us he'll be
                        as sore as the devil."
                    This system worked well enough for a time, and for days I was getting all the
                        potato I wanted and congratulating myself on my skill, when one day as I was
                        slyly forking potatoes out of his dish, moved helpfully in my direction, I
                        saw Culhane approaching and feared that out trick had been discovered. It
                        had. Perhaps some snaky waitress has told on us, or he had seen us, even
                        from his table.
                    "Now I know what's going on here at this table,"
                        he growled savagely, "and I want you two to cut it out. This big
                        boob here" (he was referring to my esteemed self) "who
                        hasn't strength of will or character enough to keep himself in good
                        health and has to be brought up here by his brother, hasn't brains
                        enough to see that when I plan a thing for his benefit it is for his
                        benefit, and not mine. Like most of the other damned fools that come up here
                        and waste their money and  my time, he thinks
                        I'm playing some cute game with himtag or something that will let
                        him show how much cuter he is than I am. And he's supposed to be a
                        writer and have a little horse-sense! His brother claims it, anyhow. And as
                        for this other simp here," and now he was addressing the assembled
                        diners while nodding towards my friend, "it hasn't been
                        three weeks since he was begging to know what I could do for him. And now
                        look at himentering into a petty little game of potato-cheating!
                    "I swear," he went on savagely, talking to the room in
                        general, "sometimes I don't know what to do with such
                        damned fools. The right thing would be to set these two, and about fifty
                        others in this place, out on the main road with their trunks and let them go
                        to hell. They don't deserve the attention of a conscientious man. I
                        prohibit gamblingwhat happens? A lot of nincompoops and mental lightweights
                        with more money than brains sneak off into a field of an afternoon on the
                        excuse that they are going for a walk, and then sit down and lose or win a
                        bucket of money just to show off what hells of fellows they are, what
                        sports, what big 'I ams.' I prohibit cigarette-smoking,
                        not because I think it's literally going to kill anybody but
                        because I think it looks bad here, sets a bad example to a lot of young
                        wasters who come here and who ought to be broken of the vice, and besides,
                        because I don't like cigarett-smoking heredon't want it
                        and won't have it. What happens? A lot of sissies and
                        mamma's boys and pets heirs, whose fathers haven't got
                        enough brains to cut 'em off and make 'em get out and
                        work, come up here, sneak in cigarettes or get the servants to, and then
                        hide out behind the barn or a tree down in the lot and sneak and smoke like
                        a lot of cheap schoolboys. God, it makes me sick! What's the use of
                        a man working out a fact during a lifetime and letting other people have the
                        benefit of itnot because he needs their money, but that they need his help
                             if all the time he is going to have such
                        cattle to deal with? Not one out of twenty or forty men that come here
                        really wants me to help him or to help himself. What he wants is to have
                        some one drive him in the way he ought to go, kick him into it, instead of
                        his buckling down and helping himself. What's the good of bothering
                        with such damned fools? A man ought to take the whole pack and run
                        'em off the place with a dog-whip." He waved his hand in
                        the air. "It's sickening. It's impossible.
                    "As for you two," he added, turning to us, but suddenly
                        stopped. "Hell, what's the use! Why should I bother with
                        you? Do as you damned well please, and stay sick or die!"
                    He turned on his heel and walked out of the dining-room, leaving us to sit
                        there. I was so dumbfounded by the harangue our pseudo-cleverness had
                        released that I could scarcely speak. My appetite was gone and I felt
                        wretched. To think of having been the cause of this unnecessary
                        tongue-lashing to the others! And I felt that we were, and justly, the
                        target for their rather censorious eyes.
                    "My God!" moaned my companion most dolefully.
                        "That's always the way with me. Nothing that I ever do
                        comes out right. All my life I've been unlucky. My mother died when
                        I was seven, and my father's never had any use for me. I started in
                        three or four businesses four or five years ago, but none of them ever came
                        out right. My yacht burned last summer, and I've had neurasthenia
                        for two years." He catalogued a list of ills that would have done
                        honor to Job himself, and he was worth nine millions, so I heard!
                    Two or three additional and amusing incidents, and I am done.
                    One of the most outre things in connection with our rides about the
                        countryside was Culhane's attitude toward life and the natives and
                        passing strangers as representing life. Thus one day, as I recall very well,
                        we were riding along  a backwoods country
                        road, very shadowy and branch-covered, a great company of us four abreast,
                        when suddenly and after his very military fashion there came a
                        "Halt! Right by fours! Right dress! Face!" and presently
                        we were all lined up in a row facing a greensward which had suddenly been
                        revealed to the left and on which, and before a small plumber's
                        stove standing outside some gentleman's stable, was stretched a
                        plumber and his helper. The former, a man of perhaps thirty-five, the latter
                        a lad of, say, fourteen or fifteen, were both very grimy and dirty, but
                        taking their ease in the morning sun, a little pot of lead on the stove
                        being waited for, I presume, that it might boil.
                    Culhane, leaving his place at the head of the column, returned to the center
                        nearest the plumber and his helper and pointing at them and addressing us in
                        a very clear voice, said:
                    "There you have it. There's American labor for you, at its
                        bestunion labor, the poor, downtrodden workingman. Look at him." We
                        all looked. "This poor hard-working plumber here," and at
                        that the latter stirred and sat up, scarcely even now grasping what it was
                        all about, so suddenly had we descended upon him, "earns or demands
                        sixty cents an hour, and this poor sweating little helper here has to have
                        forty. They're working now. They're waiting for that
                        little bit of lead to boil, at a dollar an hour between them. They
                        can't do a thing, either of 'em, until it does, and lead
                        has to be well done, you know, before it can be used.
                    "Well, now, these two here," he continued, suddenly
                        shifting his tone from one of light sarcasm to a kind of savage contempt,
                        "imagine they are getting along, making life a lot better for
                        themselves, when they lie about this way and swindle another man out of his
                        honest due in connection with the work he is paying for. He can't
                        help himself. He can't know everything. If he did he'd
                        probably find what's wrong in there and fix it himself in three
                        minutes. But if  he did that and the union
                        heard of it they'd boycott him. They'd come around and
                        blackmail him, blow up his barn, or make him pay for the work he did
                        himself. I know 'em. I have to deal with 'em. They fix my
                        pipes in the same way that these two are fixing hislying on the grass at a
                        dollar an hour. And they want five dollars a pound for every bit of lead
                        they use. If they forget anything and have to go back to town for it, you
                        pay for it, at a dollar an hour. They get on the job at nine and quit at
                        four, in the country. If you say anything, they quit
                        altogetherthey're union laborersand they
                        won't let any one else do it, either. Once they're on the
                        job they have to rest every few minutes, like these two. Something has to
                        boil, or they have to wait for something. Isn't it wonderful!
                        Isn't it beautiful! And all of us of course are made free and
                        equal! They're just as good as we are! If you work and make money
                        and have any plumber's stove standing outside some
                        gentleman's stable, Guide right! Forward!" and off we
                        trotted, breaking into a headlong gallop a little farther on as if he wished
                        to outrun the mood which was holding him at the moment.
                    The plumber and his assistant, fully awake now to the import of what had
                        occurred, stared after us. The journeyman plumber, who was short and fat,
                        sat and blinked. At last he recovered his wits sufficiently to cry,
                        "Aw, go to hell you !" but by that time we were well along
                        the road and I am not sure that Culhane even heard.
                    Another day as we were riding along a road which led into a nearby city of,
                        say, twenty thousand, we encountered a beer truck of great size and on its
                        seat so large and ruddy and obese a German as one might go a long way and
                        still not see. It was very hot. The German was drowsy and taking his time in
                        the matter of driving. As we drew near, Culhane suddenly called a halt and,
                        lining us up as was his rule, called to the horses of the brewery wagon, who
                        also obeyed  his lusty
                        "Whoa!" The driver, from his high perch above, stared down
                        on us with mingled curiosity and wonder.
                    "Now, here's an illustration of what I mean,"
                        Culhane began, apropos of nothing at all, "when I say that the word
                        man ought to be modified or changed in some way so that when we use it we
                        would mean something more definite than we mean now. That thing you see
                        sitting up on that wagon-seat therecall that a man? And then call me one? Or
                        a man like Charles A. Dana? Or a man like General Grant? Hell! Look at him!
                        Look at his shape! Look at that stomach! You think a thing like thatcall it
                        a man if you want tohas any brains or that he's really any better
                        than a pig in a sty? If you turn a horse out to shift for himself
                        he'll eat just enough to keep in condition; same way with a dog, a
                        cat or a bird. But let one of these things, that some people call a man, come along, give him a job and enough money or a
                        chance to stuff himself, and see what happens. A thing like that connects
                        himself with one end of a beer hose and then he thinks he's all
                        right. He gets enough guts to start a sausage factory, and then he blows up,
                        I suppose, or rots. Think of it! And we call him a manor some do!"
                    During this amazing and wholly unexpected harangue (I never saw him stop any
                        one before), the heavy driver, who did not understand English very well,
                        first gazed and then strained with his eyebrows, not being able quite to
                        make out what it was all about. From the chuckling and laughter that finally
                        set up in one place and another he began dimly to comprehend that he was
                        being made fun of, used as an unsatisfactory jest of some kind. Finally his
                        face clouded for a storm and his eyes blazed, the while his fat red cheeks
                        grew redder. "Donnervetter!" he began
                        gutturally to roar. "Schweine hunde! Hunds knoche!
                            Nack der polizei soll man reufen!"
                    
                    
                    I for one pulled my horse cautiously back, as he cracked a great whip, and,
                        charging savagely through us, drove on. Culhane, having made his unkind
                        comments, gave orders for our orderly formation once more and calmly led us
                        away.
                    Perhaps the most amusing phase of him was his opposition to and contempt for
                        inefficiency of any kind. If he asked you to do anything, no matter what,
                        and you didn't at once leap to the task ready and willing and able
                        so to do, he scarcely had words enough with which to express himself. On one
                        occasion, as I recall all too well, he took us for a drive in his
                        tally-hoone or two or three that he possesseda great lumbering, highly
                        lacquered, yellow-wheeled vehicle, to which he attached seven or eight or
                        nine horses, I forget which. This tally-ho ride was a regular Sunday morning
                        or afternoon affair unless it was raining, a call suddenly sounding from
                        about the grounds somewhere at eleven or at two in the afternoon,
                        "Tally-ho at eleven-thirty" (or two-thirty, as the case
                        might be). "All aboard!" Gathering all the reins in his
                        hands and perching himself in the high seat above, with perhaps one of his
                        guests beside him, all the rest crowded willy-nilly on the seats within and
                        on top, he would carry us off, careening about the countryside most madly,
                        several of his hostlers acting as liveried footmen or outriders and one of
                        them perched up behind on the little seat, the technical name of which I
                        have forgotten, waving and blowing the long silver trumpet, the regulation
                        blasts on which had to be exactly as made and provided for such occasions.
                        Often, having been given no warning as to just when it was to be, there
                        would be a mad scramble to get into our de rigueur Sunday
                        clothes, for Culhane would not endure any flaws in our appearance, and if we
                        were not ready and waiting when one of his stablemen swung the vehicle up to
                        the door at the appointed time he was absolutely furious.
                    On the particular occasion I have in mind we all clambered  on in good time, all spick and span and in
                        our very best, shaved, powdered, hands appropriately gloved, our whiskers
                        curled and parted, our shoes shined, our hats brushed; and up in fronts was
                        Culhane, gentleman de luxe for the occasion, his long-tailed whip looped
                        exactly as it should be, no doubt, ready to be flicked out over the farthest
                        horse's head, and up behind was the trumpeterhigh hat,
                        yellow-topped boots, a uniform of some grand color, I forget which.
                    But, as it turned out on this occasion, there had been a hitch at the last
                        minute. The regular hostler or stableman who acted as footman extraordinary
                        and trumpeter plenipotentiary, the one who could truly and ably blow this
                        magnificent horn, was sick or his mother was dead. At any rate there he
                        wasn't. And in order not to irritate Culhane, a second hostler had
                        been dressed and given his seat and hornonly he couldn't blow it.
                        As we began to clamber in I heard him asking, "Can any of you
                        gentleman blow the trumpet? Do any of you gentleman know the regular trumpet
                        call?"
                    No one responded, although there was much discussion in a low key. Some
                        could, or thought they could, but hesitated to assume so frightful a risk.
                        At the same time Culhane, hearing the fuss and knowing perhaps that his
                        substitute could not trumpet, turned grimly around and said, "Say,
                        do you mean to say there isn't anyone back there who knows how to
                        blow that thing? What's the matter with you, Caswell?" he
                        called to one, and getting only mumbled explanations from that quarter,
                        called to another, "How about you, Drewberry? Or you,
                        Crashaw?"
                    All three apologized briskly. They were terrified by the mere thought of
                        trying. Indeed no one seemed eager to assume the responsibility, until
                        finally he became so threatening and assured us so volubly that unless some
                        immediate and cheerful response were made he would never again waste one
                        blank minute on a lot of blank-blank this and thats,  that one youth, a rash young society somebody from Rochester,
                        volunteered more or less feebly that he "thought" that
                        "maybe he could manage it." He took a seat directly under
                        the pompously placed trumpeter, and we were off.
                    "Heigh-ho!" Out the gate and down the road and up a nearby
                        slope at a smart clip, all of us gazing cheerfully and possibly vainly
                        about, for it was a bright day and a gay country. Now the trumpeter, as is
                        provided for on all such occasions, lifted the trumpet to his lips and began
                        on the grandiose "ta-ra-ta-ta," but to our grief and pain,
                        although he got through fairly successfully on his first attempt, there was
                        one place where there was a slight hitch, a "false crack,"
                        as some one rowdyishly remarked. Culhane, although tucking up his lines and
                        stiffening his back irritably at this flaw, said nothing. For after all a
                        poor trumpeter was better than none at all. A little later, however, the
                        trumpeter having hesitated to begin again, he called back, "Well,
                        what about the horn? What about the horn? Can't you do something
                        with it? Have you quit for the day?"
                    Up went the horn once more, and a most noble and encouraging
                        "Ta-ra-ta-ta". was begun, but just at the critical point,
                        and when we were all most prayerfully hoping against hope, as it were, that
                        this time he would round the dangerous curves of it gracefully and come to a
                        grand finish, there was a most disconcerting and disheartening squeak. It
                        was pathetic, ghastly. As one man we wilted. What would Culhane say to that?
                        We were not long in doubt. "Great Christ!" he shouted,
                        looking back and showing a countenance so black that it was positively
                        terrifying. "Who did that? Throw him off! What do you thinkthat I
                        want the whole country to know I'm airing a lot of lunatics?
                        Somebody who can blow that thing, take it and blow it, for God's
                        sake! I'm not going to drive around here without a
                        trumpeter!"
                    For a few moments there was more or less painful gabbling  in all the rows, pathetic whisperings and
                        "go ons" or eager urgings of one and another to sacrifice
                        himself upon the altar of necessity, insistences, by the ex-trumpeter that
                        he had blown trumpets and his day as good as any onewhat the deuce had got
                        into him anyhow? It must he the horn!
                    "Well," shouted Culhane finally, as a stop-gap to all this,
                        "isn't any one going to blow that thing? Do you mean to
                        tell me that I'm hauling all of you around, with not a man among
                        you able to blow a dinky little horn? What's the use of my keeping
                        a lot of fancy vehicles in my barn when all I have to deal with is a lot of
                        shoe salesmen and floorwalkers? Hell! Any child can blow it. It's
                        as easy as a fish horn. If I hadn't these horses to attend to
                        I'd blow it myself. Come oncome on! Kerrigan, what's the
                        matter with you blowing it?"
                    "The truth is, Mr. Culhane," explained Mr. Kerrigan, the
                        very dapper and polite heir of a Philadelphia starch millionaire,
                        "I haven't had any chance to practice with one of those
                        for several years. I'll try it if you want me to, but I
                        can't guarantee"
                    "Try!" insisted Culhane violently. "You
                        can't do any worse than that other mutt, if you blow for a million
                        years. Blow it! Blow it!"
                    Mr. Kerrigan turned back and being very cheerfully tendered the horn by the
                        last failure, wetted and adjusted his lips, lifted it upward and backwardand
                    It was pathetic. It was positively dreadful, the wheezing, grinding sounds
                        that were emitted.
                    "God!" shouted Culhane, pulling up the coach to a dead
                        stop. "Stop that! Whoa! Whoa!!! Do you mean to say that
                        that's the best you can do? Well, this finishes me! Whoa! What kind
                        of a bunch of cattle have I got up here, anyhow? Whoa! And out in this
                        country too where I'm known and where they know all about such
                        things! God!  Whoa! Here I spend thousands of
                        dollars to get together an equipment that will make a pleasant afternoon for
                        a crowd of gentlemen, and this is what I drawhams! A lot of barflies who
                        never saw a tally-ho! Well, I'm done! I'm through!
                        I'll-split the damned thing up for firewood before I ever take it
                        out again! Get down! Get out, all of you! I'll not haul one of you
                        back a step! Walk back or anywhere you pleaseto hell, for all I care!
                        I'm through! Get out! I'm going to turn around and get
                        back to the barn as quick as I canup some alley if I can find one. To think
                        of having such a bunch of hacks to deal with!"
                    Humbly and wearily we climbed down and, while he drove savagely on to some
                        turning-place, stood about first in small groups, then by twos and threes
                        began making our wayrather gingerly, I must confess, in our fine
                        clothesalong the winding road back to the place on the hill. But such
                        swearing! Such un-Sabbath-like comments! The number of times his sturdy
                        Irish soul was wished into innermost and almost sacrosanct portions of
                        Sheol! He was cursed from more angles and in more artistically and
                        architecturally nobly constructed phrases and even paragraphs than any human
                        being that I have ever heard of before or since, phrases so livid and
                        glistening that they smoked.
                    Talk about the carved ivories of speech! The mosaics of verbal precious
                        stones!
                    You should have heard us on our way back!
                    And still we stayed.
                    Some two years later I was passing this place in company with some friends,
                        when I asked my host, who also knew of the place, to turn in. During my stay
                        it had been the privilege and custom among those who knew much of this
                        institution to drive through the grounds and past the very doors of the
                        "repair shop," even to stop if Culhane chanced to be  visible and talking to or at least greeting
                        him, in some cases. A custom of Culhane's was, in the summer time,
                        to have erected on the lawn a large green-and-white striped marquee tent, a
                        very handsome thing indeed, in which was placed a field-officer's
                        table and several camp chairs, and some books and papers. Here of a hot day,
                        when he was not busy with us, he would sit and read. And when he was in here
                        or somewhere about, a little pennant was run up, possibly as guide to
                        visiting guests or friends. At any rate, it was the presence of this pennant
                        which caused me to know that he was about and to wish that I might have a
                        look at him once more, great lion that he was. As
                        "guests," none of us were ever allowed to come within more
                        than ten feet of it, let alone in it. As passing visitors, however, we
                        might, and many did, stop, remind him that we had once been his humble
                        slaves, and ask leave to congratulate him on his health and sturdy years. At
                        such times, if the visitors looked interesting enough, or he remembered them
                        well, he would deign to come to the tent-fly and, standing there la Napoleon
                        at Lodi or Grant in the Wilderness, be for the first time in his relations
                        with them a bit civil.
                    Anyway, on this occasion, urged on by curiosity to see my liege once more and
                        also to learn whether he would remember me at all, I had my present host
                        roll his car up to the tent door, where Culhane was reading. Feeling that by
                        this venturesome deed I had "let myself in for it" and had
                        to "make a showing," I climbed briskly out and,
                        approaching, recalled myself to him. With a semi-wry expression, half smile,
                        half contemptuous curl of the corners of his mouth, he recalled me and took
                        my extended hand; then seeing that possibly my friends if not myself looked
                        interesting, he arose and came to the door. I introduced themone a naval
                        officer of distinction, the other the owner of a great estate some miles
                        farther on. For the first time in my relations with him  I had an opportunity to note how grandly gracious he could be.
                        He accepted my friends' congratulations as to the view with a
                        princely nod and suggested that on other days it was even better. He was
                        soon to be busy now or he would have some one show my friends through the
                        shop. Some Saturday afternoon, if they would telephone or stop in passing,
                        he would oblige.
                    I noted at once that he had not aged in the least. He was sixty-two or three
                        now and as vigorous and trim as ever. And now he treated me as courteously
                        and formally as though he had never browbeaten me in the least.
                        "Good heavens," I said, "how much better to be a
                        visitor than a guest!" After a moment or two we offered many thanks
                        and sped on, but not without many a backward glance on my part, for the
                        place fascinated me. That simply furnished institution! That severe regimen!
                        This latter-day Stoic and Spartan in his tent! And, above all things, and
                        the most astounding to me, so little could one know him, the book he had
                        been reading and which he had laid upon his little table as I enteredI could
                        not help noting the title for he laid it back up, open face downwas
                        Lecky's "History of European Morals"!
                    Now!
                    Well!
                    IN RETROSPECT
                    Two years after this visit, in a serious attempt to set down what I really
                        did think of him, I arranged the following thoughts with which I closed my
                        sketch then and which I now append for what they may be worth. They
                        represented my best thought concerning him then:
                    "Thomas Culhane belongs to that class of society which the preachers
                        and the world's army of conventional merchants, lawyers, judges and
                        reputable citizens generally are presumably, if one may judge by the moral
                        and religious literature  of the day, trying
                        to reach and reform. Yet here at his sanitarium are gathered representatives
                        of those same orders, the so-called better element. And here we see them
                        suddenly dominated, mind and soul, by this being whom they, theoretically at
                        least, look upon as a brand to be snatched from the burning.
                    "As the Church and society view Culhane, so they view all life
                        outside their own immediate circles. Culhane is in fact a conspicuous figure
                        among the semi-taboo. He has been referred to in many an argument and
                        platform and pulpit and in the press as a type of man whose influence is
                        supposed to be vitiating. Now a minister enters the sanitarium, broken down
                        by his habits of life, and this same Culhane is able to penetrate him, to
                        see that his dogmatic and dictatorial mental habits are the cause of his
                        ailment, and he has the moral courage to shock him, to drag him by
                        apparently brutal processes out of his rut. He reads the man accurately, he
                        knows him better than he knows himself, and he effects a cure.
                    "This astonishing condition is certainly a new light for those
                        seeking to labor among men. Those who are successful gamblers, pugilists,
                        pickpockets, saloon-keepers, book-makers, jockeys and the like are so by
                        reason of their intelligence, their innate mental acumen and perception. It
                        is a fact that in the sporting world and among the unconventional
                        men-about-town you will often find as good if not better judges of human
                        nature than elsewhere. Contact with a rough and ready and all-too-revealing
                        world teaches them much. The world's customary pretensions and
                        delusions are in the main ripped away. They are bruised by rough facts.
                        Often the men gathered in some such caf and whom preachers and moralists are
                        most ready to condemn have a clearer perception of preachers, church
                        organizations and reformers and their relative importance in the
                        multitudinous life of the world than the 
                        preachers, church congregations and reformers have of those in the caf or
                        the world outside to which they belong.
                    "This is why, in my humble judgment, the Church and those associated
                        with its aims make no more progress than they do. While they are consciously
                        eager to better the world, they are so wrapped up in themselves and their
                        theories, so hampered by their arbitrary and limited conceptions of good and
                        evil, that the great majority of men move about them unseen, except in a
                        far-away and superficial manner. Men are not influenced at arm's
                        length. It would be interesting to know if some day a preacher or judge,
                        who, offended by Mr. Culhane's profanity and brutality, will be
                        able to reach the gladiator and convert him to his views as readily as the
                        gladiator is able to rid him of his ailment."
                    In justice to the preachers, moralists, et cetera, I should now like to add
                        that it is probably not any of the virtues or perfections represented by a
                        man like Culhane with which they are quarreling, but the vices of many who
                        are in no wise like him and do not stand for the things he stands for. At
                        the same time, the so-called "sports" might well reply
                        that it is not with any of the really admirable qualities of the
                        "unco guid" that they quarrel, but their too narrow
                        interpretations of virtue and duty and their groundless generalization as to
                        types and classes.
                    Be it so.
                    Here is meat for a thousand controversies.
                
                
                
                    A TRUE PATRIARCH
                    IN the streets of a certain moderate-sized county seat in
                        Missouri not many years ago might have been seen a true patriarch. Tall,
                        white-haired, stout in body and mind, he roamed among his neighbors,
                        dispensing sympathy and a curiously genial human interest through the
                        leisure of his day. One might have taken him to be Walt Whitman, of whom he
                        was the living counterpart; or, in the clear eye, high forehead and thick,
                        appealing white hair, have seen a marked similarity to Bryant as he appeared
                        in his later years. Already at this time he had seen man's allotted
                        term on earth, and yet he was still strong in the councils of his people and
                        rich in the accumulated interests of a lifetime.
                    At the particular time in question he was most interesting for the
                        eccentricities which years of stalwart independence had developed, but these
                        were lovable peculiarities and only severed from remarkable actions by the
                        compelling power of time and his increasing infirmities. The loud, though
                        pleasant, voice, and strong, often fiery, declamatory manner, were remnants
                        of the days when his fellow-citizens were wholly swayed by the magnificence
                        of his orations. Charmingly simple in manner, he still represented with it
                        that old courtesy which made every stranger his guest. When moved by
                        righteous indignation, there cropped out the daring and domineering
                        insistence of one who had always followed what he considered to be the
                        right, and who knew its power.
                    Even then, old as he was, if there were any topic worthy of discussion, and
                        his fellow-citizens were in danger of going 
                        wrong, he became an haranguing prophet, as it were, a local Isaiah or
                        Jeremiah. Every gate heard him, for he stopped on his rounds in front of
                        each, and calling out the inhabitant poured forth such a volume of fact and
                        argument as tended to remove all doubt of what he, at least, considered
                        right. All of this he invariably accompanied by a magnificence of gesture
                        worthy of a great orator.
                    At such times his mind, apparently, was almost wholly engrossed with these
                        matters, and I have it from one of his daughters, who besides being his
                        daughter, was a sincere admirer of his, that often he might have been seen
                        coming down his private lawn, and even the public streets when there was no
                        one near to hear him, shaking his head, gesticulating, sometimes sweeping
                        upward with his arms, as if addressing his fellow-citizens in assemblage.
                    "He used to push his big hat well back upon his forehead,"
                        she said on one occasion, "and often in winter, forgetful of the
                        bitter cold, would take off his overcoat and carry it on his arm.
                        Occasionally he would stop quite still, as if he were addressing a
                        companion, and with sweeping gestures illustrate some idea or other,
                        although, of course, there was no one present. Then, planting his big cane
                        forcibly with each step, as though still emphasizing his recently stated
                        ideas, he would come forward and enter the house."
                    The same suggestion of mental concentration might have been seen in
                        everything that he did, and I personally have seen him leading a pet Jersey
                        cow home for milking with the same dignity of bearing and forcefulness of
                        manner that characterized him when he stood before his fellow-citizens at a
                        public meeting addressing them on some important topic. He never appeared to
                        have a sense of difference from or superiority over his fellowmen, but only
                        the keenest sympathy with all things human. Every man was his brother, every
                        human being honest. A cow or a horse was as much to be  treated with sympathy and charity as a man or a woman. If a
                        purse was lost, forty-nine out of every fifty men would return it without
                        thought of reward, if you were to believe him.
                    In the little town where he had lived so many years, and where he finally
                        died, he knew every living creature from cattle upwards, and could call each
                        by name. The sick, the poor, the widows, the orphans, the insane, and
                        dependents of all kinds, were his especial care. Every Sunday afternoon for
                        years, it was his custom to go the rounds of the indigent, frequently
                        carrying a basket of his good wife's dinner. This he distributed,
                        along with consolation and advice. Occasionally he would return home of a
                        winter's day very much engrossed with the discovery of some
                        condition of distress hitherto unseen.
                    "Mother," he would say to his wife in that same oratorical
                        manner previously noted, as he entered the house, "I've
                        found such a poor family. They have moved into the old saloon below
                        Solmson's. You know how open that is." This was delivered
                        in the most dramatic style after he had indicated something important by
                        throwing his overcoat on the bed and standing his cane in the corner.
                        "There's a man and several children there. The mother is
                        dead. They were on their way to Kansas, but it got so cold they've
                        had to stop here until the winter is broken. They're without food;
                        almost no clothing. Can't we find something for them?"
                    "On these occasions," said his daughter to me once,
                        "he would, as he nearly always did, talk to himself on the way, as
                        if he were discussing politics. But you could never tell what he was coming
                        for."
                    Then with his own labor he would help his wife seek out the odds and ends
                        that could be spared, and so armed, would return, arguing by the way as if
                        an errand of mercy were the last thing he contemplated. Nearly always the
                        subject  of these orations was some public
                        wrong or error which should receive, although in all likelihood it did not,
                        immediate attention.
                    Always of a reverent, although not exactly religious, turn of mind, he took
                        considerable interest in religious ministration, though he steadily and
                        persistently refused, in his later years, to go to church. He had St.
                        James's formula to quote in self-defense, which insists that
                        "Pure religion and undefiled before our God and Father is this, To
                        visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself
                        unspotted from the world." Often, when pressed too close, he would
                        deliver this with kindly violence. One of the most touching anecdotes
                        representative of this was related to me by his daughter, who said:
                    "Mr. Kent, a poor man of our town, was sick for months previous to
                        his death, and my father used to go often, sometimes daily, to visit him. He
                        would spend perhaps a few minutes, perhaps an hour, with him, singing,
                        praying, and ministering to his spiritual wants. The pastor of the church
                        living so far away and coming only once a month, this duty devolved upon
                        some one, and my father did his share, and always felt more than repaid for
                        the time spent by the gratitude shown by the many poor people he aided in
                        this way.
                    "Mr. Kent's favorite song, for instance, was 'On
                        Jordan's Stormy Banks I Stand.' This he would have my
                        father sing, and his clear voice could often be heard in the
                        latter's small house, and seemed to impart strength to the sick
                        man.
                    "Upon one occasion, I remember, Mr. Kent expressed a desire to hear
                        a certain song. My father was not very familiar with it but, anxious to
                        grant his request, came home and asked me if I would get a friend of mine
                        and go and sing the song for him.
                    "We entered the sick-room, he leading us by the hand, for  we were children at the time. Mr.
                        Kent's face at once brightened, and father said to him:
                    "'Mr. Kent, I told you this morning that I
                        couldn't sing the song you asked for, but these girls know it, and
                        have come to sing it for you.'
                    "Then, waving his hand gently toward us, he said:
                    "'Sing, children.'
                    "We did so, and when we had finished he knelt and offered a prayer,
                        not for the poor man's recovery but that he might put his trust in
                        the Lord and meet death without fear. I have never been more deeply
                        impressed nor felt more confident in the presence of death, for the man died
                        soon after, soothed into perfect peace."
                    On another occasion he was sitting with some friends in front of the
                        courthouse in his town, talking and sunning himself, when a neighbor came
                        running up in great excitement, calling:
                    "Mr. White, Mr. White, come, right quick. Mrs. Sadler wants
                        you."
                    He explained that the woman in question was dying, and, being afraid she
                        would strangle in her last moments, had asked the bystanders to run for him,
                        her old acquaintance, in the efficacy of whose prayers she had great faith.
                        The old patriarch was without a coat at the time, but, unmindful of that,
                        hastened after.
                    "Mr. White," exclaimed the sick woman excitedly upon seeing
                        him, "I want you to pray that I won't strangle.
                        I'm not afraid to die, but I don't want to die that way. I
                        want you to offer a prayer for me that I may be saved from that.
                        I'm so afraid."
                    Seeing by the woman's manner that she was very much overwrought, he
                        used all his art to soothe her.
                    "Have no fear, Mrs. Sadler, now," he exclaimed solemnly.
                        "You won't strangle. I will ask the Lord for you, and this
                             evil will not come upon you. You need not
                        have any fear."
                    "Kneel down, you," he commanded, turning upon the assembled
                        neighbors and relatives who had followed or had been there before him, while
                        he pushed back his white hair from his forehead. "Let us now pray
                        that this good woman here be allowed to pass away in peace." And
                        even with the rustle of kneeling that accompanied his words he lifted up his
                        coatless arms and began to pray.
                    Through his magnificent phraseology, no doubt, as well as his profound faith,
                        he succeeded in inducing a feeling of peace and quiet in all his hearers,
                        the sick woman included, who listening, sank into a restful stupor, from
                        which all agony of mind had apparently disappeared. Then when the physical
                        atmosphere of the room had been thus reorganized, he ceased and retired to
                        the yard in front of the house, where on a bench under a shade tree he
                        seated himself to wipe his moist brow and recover his composure. In a few
                        moments a slight commotion in the sick-room denoted that the end had come.
                        Several neighbors came out, and one said, "Well, it is all over,
                        Mr. White. She is dead."
                    "Yes," he replied with great assurance. "She
                        didn't strangle, did she?"
                    "No," said the other, "the Lord granted her
                        request."
                    "I knew He would," he replied in his customary loud and
                        confident tone. "Prayer is always answered."
                    Then, after viewing the dead woman and making additional comments, he was
                        off, as placid as though nothing had occurred.
                    I happened to hear of this some time after, and one day, while sitting with
                        him on his front porch, said, "Mr. White, do you really believe
                        that the Lord directly answered your prayer in that instance?"
                    "Answered!" he almost shouted defiantly and yet with a kind
                        of human tenderness that one could never mistake. "Of  course He answered! Why wouldn't Hea
                        faithful old servant like that? To be sure, He answered."
                    "Might it not have been merely the change of atmosphere which your
                        voice and strength introduced? The quality of your own thoughts goes for
                        something in such matters. Mind acts on mind."
                    "Certainly," he said, in a manner as agreeable as if it had
                        always been a doctrine with him. "I know that. But, after all, what
                        is thatmy mind, your mind, the sound of voices?
                        It's all the Lord anyhow, whatever you think."
                    How could one gainsay such a religionist as that?
                    The poor, the blind, the insane, and sufferers of all sorts, as I have said
                        before, were always objects of his keenest sympathies. Evidence of it
                        flashed out at the most unexpected momentsloud, rough exclamations, which,
                        however, always contained a note so tender and suggestive as to defy
                        translation. Thus, while we were sitting on his front porch one day and
                        hotly discussing politics to while away a dull afternoon, there came down
                        the street, past his home, a queer, ragged, half-demented individual, who
                        gazed about in an aimless sort of way, peering queerly over fences, looking
                        idly down the road, staring strangely overhead into the blue. It was
                        apparent, in a moment, that the man was crazy, some demented creature,
                        harmless enough, however, to be allowed abroad and so save the county the
                        expense of caring for him. The old man broke a sentence short in order to
                        point and shake his head emotionally.
                    "Look at that," he said to me, with a pathetic sweep of the
                        arm, "now just look at that! There's a poor, demented
                        soul, with no one to look after him. His brother is a hard-working saddler.
                        His sister is dead. No money to speak of, any of them." He paused a
                        moment, and then added, "I don't know what we're
                        to do in such cases. The state and the county don't always do their
                        duty. Most people here  are too poor to help,
                        there are so many to be taken care of. It seems almost at times as if you
                        can't do anything but leave them to the mercy of God, and yet you
                        can't do that either, quite," and he once more shook his
                        head sadly.
                    I was for denouncing the county, but he explained very charitably that it was
                        already very heavily taxed by such cases. He did not seem to know exactly
                        what should be done at the time, but he was very sorry, very, and for the
                        time being the warm argument in which he had been indulging was completely
                        forgotten. Now he lapsed into silence and all communication was suspended,
                        while he rocked silently in his great chair and thought.
                    One day in passing the local poor-farm (and this is of my own knowledge), he
                        came upon a man beating a poor idiot with a whip. The latter was incapable
                        of reasoning and therefore of understanding why it was that he was being
                        beaten. The two were beside a wood-pile and the demented one was crying. In
                        a moment the old patriarch had jumped out of his conveyance, leaped over the
                        fence, and confronted the amazed attendant with an uplifted arm.
                    "Not another lick!" he fairly shouted. "What do
                        you mean by striking an idiot?"
                    "Why," explained the attendant, "I want him to
                        carry in the wood, and he won't do it."
                    "It is not his place to bring in the wood. He isn't put
                        here for that, and in the next place he can't understand what you
                        mean. He's put here to be taken care of. Don't you dare
                        strike him again. I'll see about this, and you."
                    Knowing his interrupter well, his position and power in the community, the
                        man endeavored to explain that some work must be done by the inmates, and
                        that this one was refractory. The only way he had of making him understand
                        was by whipping him.
                    "Not another word," the old man blustered, overawing the
                             county hireling.
                        "You've done a wrong, and you know it. I'll see
                        to this," and off he bustled to the county courthouse, leaving the
                        transgressor so badly frightened that whips thereafter were carefully
                        concealed, in this institution at least. The court, which was held in his
                        home town, was not in session at the time, and only the clerk was present
                        when he came tramping down the aisle and stood before the latter with his
                        right hand uplifted in the position of one about to make oath.
                    "Swear me," he called solemnly, and without further
                        explanation, as the latter stared at him. "I want you to take this
                        testimony under oath."
                    The clerk knew well enough the remarkable characteristics of his guest, whose
                        actions were only too often inexplicable from the ground point of policy and
                        convention. Without ado, after swearing him, he got out ink and paper, and
                        the patriarch began.
                    "I saw," he said, "in the yard of the county farm
                        of this county, not over an hour ago, a poor helpless idiot, too weak-minded
                        to understand what was required of him, and put in that institution by the
                        people of this county to be cared for, being beaten with a cowhide by Mark
                        Sheffels, who is an attendant there, because the idiot did not understand
                        enough to carry in wood, which the people have hired Mark Sheffels to carry
                        in. Think of it," he added, quite forgetting the nature of his
                        testimony and that he was now speaking for dictation and not for an audience
                        to hear, and going off into a most scorching and brilliant arraignment of
                        the entire system in which such brutality could occur, "a poor
                        helpless idiot, unable to frame in his own disordered mind a single clear
                        sentence, being beaten by a sensible, healthy brute too lazy and trifling to
                        perform the duties for which he was hired and which he personally is
                        supposed to perform."
                    There was more to the effect, for instance, that the American  people and the people of this county should
                        be ashamed to think that such crimes should be permitted and go unpunished,
                        and that this was a fair sample. The clerk, realizing the importance of Mr.
                        White in the community, and the likelihood of his following up his charges
                        very vigorously, quietly followed his address in a very deferential way,
                        jotting down such salient features as he had time to write. When he was
                        through, however, he ventured to lift his voice in protest.
                    "You know, Mr. White," he said, "Sheffels is a
                        member of our party, and was appointed by us. Of course, now, it's
                        too bad that this thing should have happened, and he ought to be dropped,
                        but if you are going to make a public matter of it in this way it may hurt
                        us in the election next month."
                    The old patriarch threw back his head and gazed at him in the most blazing
                        way, almost without comprehension, apparently, of so petty a view.
                    "What!" he exclaimed. "What's that got to
                        do with it? Do you want the Democratic Party to starve the poor and beat the
                        insane?"
                    The opposition was rather flattened by the reply, and left the old gentleman
                        to storm out. For once, at least, in this particular instance, anyhow, he
                        had purified the political atmosphere, as if by lightning, and within the
                        month following the offending attendant was dropped.
                    Politics, however, had long known his influence in a similar way. There was a
                        time when he was the chief political figure in the county, and possessed the
                        gift of oratory, apparently, beyond that of any of his fellow-citizens. Men
                        came miles to hear him, and he took occasion to voice his views on every
                        important issue. It was his custom in those days, for instance, when he had
                        anything of special importance to say, to have printed at his own expense a
                        few placards announcing his coming, which he would then carry to the town
                        selected for his address and personally nail up. When the hour came, a  crowd, as I am told, was never wanting.
                        Citizens and farmers of both parties for miles about usually came to hear
                        him.
                    Personally I never knew how towering his figure had been in the past, or how
                        truly he had been admired, until one day I drifted in upon a lone bachelor
                        who occupied a hut some fifteen miles from the patriarch's home and
                        who was rather noted in the community at the time that I was there for his
                        love of seclusion and indifference to current events. He had not visited the
                        nearest neighboring village in something like five years, and had not been
                        to the moderate-sized county seat in ten. Naturally he treasured memories of
                        his younger days and more varied activity.
                    "I don't know," he said to me one day, in
                        discussing modern statesmen and political fame in general, "but
                        getting up in politics is a queer game. I can't understand it. Men
                        that you'd think ought to get up don't seem to. It
                        doesn't seem to be real greatness that helps 'em
                        along."
                    "What makes you say that?" I asked.
                    "Well, there used to be a man over here at Danville that I always
                        thought would get up, and yet he didn't. He was the finest orator I
                        ever heard."
                    "Who was he?" I asked.
                    "Arch White," he said quietly. "He was really a
                        great man. He was a good man. Why, many's the time I've
                        driven fifteen miles to hear him. I used to like to go into Danville just
                        for that reason. He used to be around there, and sometimes he'd
                        talk a little. He could stir a fellow up."
                    "Oratory alone won't make a statesman," I
                        ventured, more to draw him out than to object.
                    "Oh, I know," he answered, "but White was a good
                        man. The plainest-spoken fellow I ever heard. He seemed to be able to tell
                        us just what was the matter with us, or at least I thought so. He always
                        seemed a wonderful speaker to me. I've seen as many as two thousand
                        people up at High Hill  hollerin'
                        over what he was saying until you could hear them for miles."
                    "Why didn't he get up, then, do you suppose?" I
                        now asked on my part.
                    "I dunno," he answered. "Guess he was too honest,
                        maybe. It's sometimes that way in politics, you know. He was a
                        mighty determined man, and one that would talk out in convention, whatever
                        happened. Whenever they got to twisting things too much and doing what
                        wasn't just honest, I suppose he'd kick out. Anyhow, he
                        didn't get up, and I've always wondered at it."
                    In Danville one might hear other stories wholly bearing out this latter
                        opinion, and always interestingdelightful, really. Thus, a long, enduring
                        political quarrel was once generated by an incident of no great importance,
                        save that it revealed an odd streak in the old patriarch's
                        character and his interpretation of charity and duty.
                    A certain young man, well known to the people of this county and to the
                        patriarch, came to Danville one day and either drank up or gambled away a
                        certain sum of money intrusted to him by his aunt for disposition in an
                        entirely different manner. When the day was all over, however, he was not
                        too drunk to realize that he was in a rather serious predicament, and so,
                        riding out of town, traveled a little way and then tearing his clothes and
                        marking his skin, returned, complaining that he had been set upon by the
                        wayside, beaten, and finally robbed. His clothes were in a fine state of
                        delapidation after his efforts, and even his body bore marks which amply
                        seconded his protestation. In the slush and rain of the dark village street
                        he was finally picked up by the county treasurer seemingly in a wretched
                        state, and the latter, knowing the generosity of White and the fact that his
                        door was always open to those in distress, took the young man by the arm and
                        led him to the patriarch's door, where he personally applied  for him. The old patriarch, holding a lamp
                        over his head, finally appeared and peered outward into the darkness.
                    "Yes," he exclaimed, as he always did, eyeing the victim;
                        "what is it you want of me?"
                    "Mr. White," said the treasurer, "it's
                        me. I've got young Squiers here, who needs your sympathy and aid
                        tonight. He's been beaten and robbed out here on the road while he
                        was on his way to his mother's home."
                    "Who?" inquired the patriarch, stepping out on the porch
                        and eyeing the newcomer, the while he held the lamp down so as to get a good
                        look. "Billy Squiers!" he exclaimed when he saw who it
                        was. "Mr. Morton, I'll not take this man into my house. I
                        know him. He's a drunkard and a liar. No man has robbed him. This
                        is all a pretense, and I want you to take him away from here. Put him in the
                        hotel. I'll pay his expenses for the night, but he can't
                        come into my home," and he retired, closing the door after him.
                    The treasurer fell back amazed at this onslaught, but recovered sufficiently
                        to knock at the door once more and declare to his friend that he deemed him
                        no Christian in taking such a stand and that true religion commanded
                        otherwise, even though he suspected the worst. The man was injured and
                        penniless. He even went so far as to quote the parable of the good Samaritan
                        who passed down by way of Jericho and rescued him who had fallen among
                        thieves. The argument had long continued into the night and rain before the
                        old patriarch finally waved them both away.
                    "Don't you quote Scripture to me," he finally
                        shouted defiantly, still holding the light and flourishing it in an
                        oratorical sweep. "I know my Bible. There's nothing in it
                        requiring me to shield liars and drunkards, not a bit of it," and
                        once more he went in and closed the door.
                    Nevertheless the youth was housed and fed at his expense and no charge of any
                        kind made against him, although many 
                        believed, as did Mr. White, that he was guilty of theft, whereas others of
                        the opposing political camp believed not. However, considerable opposition,
                        based on old Mr. White's lack of humanity in this instance, was
                        generated by this argument, and for years he was taunted with it although he
                        always maintained that he was justified and that the Lord did not require
                        any such service of him.
                    The crowning quality of nearly all of his mercies, as one may easily see, was
                        their humor. Even he was not unaware, in retrospect, of the figure he made
                        at times, and would smilingly tell, under provocation, of his peculiar
                        attitude on one occasion or another. Partially from himself, from those who
                        saw it, and the judge presiding in the case, was the following
                        characteristic anecdote gathered.
                    In the same community with him at one time lived a certain man by the name of
                        Moore, who in his day had been an expert tobacco picker, but who later had
                        come by an injury to his hand and so turned cobbler, and a rather helpless,
                        although not hopeless, one at that. Mr. White had known this man from
                        boyhood up, and had been a witness at various times to the many changes in
                        his fortunes, from the time, for instance, when he had earned as much as
                        several dollars a daygood pay in that regionto the hour when he took a
                        cobbler's kit upon his back and began to eke out a bare livelihood
                        for his old age by traveling about the countryside mending shoes. At the
                        time under consideration, this ex-tobacco picker had degenerated into so
                        humble a thing as Uncle Bobby Moore, a poor, half-remembered cobbler, whose
                        earlier state but few knew, and who at this time had only a few charitably
                        inclined friends, with some of whom he spent the more pleasant portion of
                        the year from spring to fall. Thus, it was his custom to begin his annual
                        pilgrimage with a visit of ten days to Mr. White, where he would sit and
                        cobble shoes for all the members of the household. From here he  would go to another acquaintance some ten
                        miles farther on, where he could enjoy the early fruit which was then
                        ripening in delicious quantity. Then he would visit a friendly farmer whose
                        home was upon the Missouri River still farther away, where he did his annual
                        fishing, and so on by slow degrees, until at last he would reach a
                        neighborhood rich in after presses, where he would wind up the fall, and so
                        end his travel for the winter, beginning his peculiar round once more the
                        following spring at the home of Mr. White. Naturally the old patriarch knew
                        him and liked him passing well.
                    As he grew older, however, Uncle Bobby reached the place where even by this
                        method and his best efforts he could scarcely make enough to sustain him in
                        comfort during the winter season, which was one of nearly six months, free
                        as his food and lodging occasionally were. He was too feeble. Not desiring
                        to put himself upon any friend for more than a short visit, he finally
                        applied to the patriarch.
                    "I come to you, Mr. White," he said, "because I
                        don't think I can do for myself any longer in the winter season. My
                        hand hurts a good deal and I get tired so easily. I want to know if
                        you'd won't help me to get into the county farm during the
                        winter months, anyhow. In summer I can still look out for myself, I
                        think."
                    In short, he made it clear that in summer he preferred to be out so that he
                        might visit his friends and still enjoy his declining years.
                    The old patriarch was visibly moved by this appeal, and seizing him by the
                        arm and leading off toward the courthouse where the judge governing such
                        cases was then sitting he exclaimed, "Come right down here, Uncle
                        Bobby. I'll see what can be done about this. Your old age
                        shouldn't be troubled in this fashionnot after all the efforts you
                        have made to maintain yourself," and bursting in on the court a few
                        moments later, where a trial was holding at the time, he  deliberately led his charge down the aisle,
                        disturbing the court proceedings by so doing, and calling as he came:
                    "Your Honor, I want you to hear this case especially. It's
                        a very important and a very sad case, indeed."
                    Agape, the spectators paused to listen. The judge, an old and appreciative
                        friend of his, turned a solemn eye upon this latest evidence of
                        eccentricity.
                    "What is it, Mr. White?" he inquired.
                    "Your Honor," returned the latter in his most earnest and
                        oratorical manner, "this man here, as you may or may not know, is
                        an old and honorable citizen of this county. He has been here nearly all the
                        days of his life, and every day of that time he has earned an honest living.
                        These people here," he said, gazing about upon the interested
                        spectators, "can witness whether or not he was one of the best
                        tobacco pickers this county ever saw. Mayhew," he interrupted
                        himself to call to a spectator on one of the benches, "you know
                        whether Uncle Bobby always earned an honest living. Speak up. Tell the
                        Court, did he?"
                    "Yes, Mr. White," said Mayhew quickly, "he
                        did."
                    "Morrison," he called, turning in another direction, where
                        an aged farmer sat, "what do you know of this man?"
                    Mr. Morrison was about to reply, when the Court interfered.
                    "The Court knows, Mr. White, that he is an honest man. Now what
                        would you have it do?"
                    "Well, your Honor," resumed the speaker, indifferently
                        following his own oratorical bent, the while the company surveyed him,
                        amused and smiling, "this man has always earned an honest living
                        until he injured his hand here in some way a number of years ago, and since
                        then it has been difficult for him to make his way and he has been cobbling
                        for a living. However, he is getting so old now that he can't even
                        earn much at that, except in the spring and summer, and so I  brought him here to have him assigned a place
                        in the county infirmary. I want you to make out an order admitting him to
                        that institution, so that I can take it and go with him and see that he is
                        comfortably placed."
                    "All right, Mr. White," replied the judge, surveying the
                        two figures in mid-aisle, "I so order."
                    "But, your Honor," he went on, "there's
                        an exception I want made in this case. Mr. Moore has a few friends that he
                        likes to visit in the summer, and who like to have him visit them. I want
                        him to have the privilege of coming out in the summer to see these people
                        and to see me."
                    "All right, Mr. White," said the judge, "he shall
                        have that privilege. Now, what else?"
                    Satisfied in these particulars, the aged citizen led his charge away, and
                        then went with him to the infirmary, where he presented the order of the
                        Court and then left him.
                    Things went very well with his humble client for a certain time, and Uncle
                        Bobby was thought to be well disposed of, when one day he came to his friend
                        again. It appeared that only recently he had been changed about in his
                        quarters at the infirmary and put into a room with a slightly demented
                        individual, whose nocturnal wanderings greatly disturbed his very necessary
                        sleep.
                    "I want to know if you won't have them put me by myself,
                        Mr. White," he concluded. "I need my sleep. But they say
                        they can't do it without an order."
                    Once more the old patriarch led his charge before the Court, then sitting, as
                        it happened, and breaking in upon the general proceedings as before, began:
                    "Your Honor, this man here, Mr. Moore, whom I brought before you
                        some time ago, has been comfortably housed by your order, and he's
                        deeply grateful for it, as he will tell you, and as I can, but he's
                        an old man, your Honor, and, above all things, needs his rest. Now, of late
                        they've been  quartering him with a
                        poor, demented sufferer down there who walks a good deal in his sleep, and
                        it wears upon him. I've come here with him to ask you to allow him
                        to have a room by himself, where he will be alone and rest
                        undisturbed."
                    "Very well, Mr. White," said the Court, "it shall
                        be as you request."
                    Without replying, the old gentleman turned and led the supplicant away.
                    Everything went peacefully now for a number of years, until finally Uncle
                        Bobby, having grown so feeble with age that he feared he was soon to die,
                        came to his friend and asked him to promise him one thing.
                    "What is it?" asked the latter.
                    By way of replying, the supplicant described an old oak tree which grew in
                        the yard of the Baptist Church some miles from Danville, and said:
                    "I want you to promise that when I am dead, wherever I happen to be
                        at the time, that you will see that I am buried under that tree."
                        He gave no particular reason save that he had always liked the tree and the
                        view it commanded, but made his request a very secret matter and begged to
                        be assured that Mr. White would come and get his body and carry it to the
                        old oak.
                    The latter, always a respecter of the peculiarities and crotchets of his
                        friends, promised. After a few years went by, suddenly one day he learned
                        that Uncle Bobby was not only dead but buried, a thing which astonished him
                        greatly. No one locally being supposed to know that he was to have had any
                        special form of burial, the old patriarch at once recalled his promise.
                    "Where is his body?" he asked.
                    "Why, they buried it under the old white oak over at Mt. Horeb
                        Church," was the answer.
                    "What!" he exclaimed, too astonished to think of anything
                             save his lost privilege of mercy,
                        "who told them to bury him there?"
                    "Why, he did," said the friend.
                        "It was his last wish, I believe."
                    "The confounded villain," he shouted, amusingly enough.
                        "He led me to believe that I was the only one he told. I alone was
                        to have looked after his burial, and now look at himgoing and having himself
                        buried without a word. The scoundrel! Would you believe that an old friend
                        like Uncle Bobby would do anything like that? However," he added
                        after a time, "I think I know how it was. He got so old and feeble
                        here of late that he must have lost his mindotherwise he would never have
                        done anything like that to me."
                    And with this he was satisfied to rest and let bygones be bygones.
                
                
                
                    DE MAUPASSANT, JUNIOR
                    HE dawned on me in the spring of 1906, a stocky, sturdy
                        penetrative temperament of not more than twenty-four or -five years of age,
                        steady of eye, rather aloof and yet pervasive and bristling; a devouring
                        type. Without saying much, and seeming to take anything I had to say with a
                        grain of salt, he managed to impress himself on me at once. Frankly, I liked
                        him very much, although I could see at a glance that he was not so very much
                        impressed with me. I was an older man than he by, say, ten years, an editor
                        of an unimportant magazine, newly brought in (which he did not know) to turn
                        it into something better. In order to earn a few dollars he had undertaken
                        to prepare for the previous editor a most ridiculous article, some silly
                        thing about newspaper writing as a career for women. It had been ordered or
                        encouraged, and I felt that it was but just that it should be paid for.
                    "Why do you waste your time on a thing like that?" I
                        inquired, smiling and trying to criticize and yet encourage him at one and
                        the same time, for I had been annoyed by many similar assignments given out
                        by the old management which could not now be used. "You look to me
                        to have too much force and sense for that. Why not undertake something worth
                        your time?"
                    "My time, hell!" he bristled, like a fighting sledge-dog,
                        of which by the way he reminded me. "You show me a magazine in this
                        town that would buy anything that I thought worthy of my time!
                        You're like all the rest of them: you talk big, but you really
                        don't want anything very important. You  want little things probably, written to a theory or down to
                        'our policy.' I know. Give me the stuff. You
                        don't have to take it. It was ordered, but I'll throw it
                        in the waste basket."
                    "Not so fast! Not so fast!" I replied, admiring his courage
                        and moved by his contempt of the editorial and book publishing conditions in
                        America. He was so young and raw and savage in his way, quite animal, and
                        yet how interesting! There was something as fresh and clean about him as a
                        newly plowed field or the virgin prairies. He typified for me all the young
                        unsophisticated strength of my country, but with more
                        "punch" than it usually manifests, in matters intellectual
                        at least. "Now, don't get excited, and don't
                        snarl," I cooed. "I know what you say is true. They
                        don't really want much of what you have to offer. I don't.
                        Working for some one else, as most of us do, for the dear circulation
                        department, it's not possible for us to get very far above crowd
                        needs and tastes. I've been in your position exactly. I am now.
                        Where do you come from?"
                    He told meMissouriand some very few years before from its state university.
                    "And what is it you want to do?"
                    "What's that to you?" he replied irritatingly,
                        with an ingrowing and obvious self-conviction of superiority and withdrawing
                        as though he highly resented my question as condescending and intrusive.
                        "You probably wouldn't understand if I told you. Just now
                        I want to write enough magazine stuff to make a living, that's
                        all."
                    "Dear, dear!" I said, laughing at the slap. "What
                        a bravo we are! Really, you're interesting. But suppose now you and
                        I get down to brass tacks. You want to do something interesting, if you can,
                        and get paid for it. I rather like you, and anyhow you look to me as though
                        you might do the things I want, or some of them. Now, you want to do the
                        least silly  thing you cansomething better
                        than this. I want the least silly stuff I can get away with in this
                        magazinegenuine color out of the life of New York, if such a thing can be
                        published in an ordinary magazine. Roughly, here's the kind of
                        thing I want," and I outlined to him the probable policy of the
                        magazine under my direction. I had taken an anmic
                        "white-light" monthly known as The
                        Broadway (!) and was attempting to recast it into a national or
                        international metropolitan picture. He thawed slightly.
                    "Well, maybe with that sort of idea behind it, it might come to
                        something. I don't know. It's possible
                        that you may be the one to do it." He emphasized the
                        "possible." "At any rate, it's worth
                        trying. Judging by the snide editors and publications in this town, no one
                        in America wants anything decent." His lip curled. "I have
                        ambitions of my own, but I don't expect to work them out through
                        the magazines of this town; maybe not of this country. I didn't
                        know that any change was under way here."
                    "Well, it is," I said. "Still, you can't
                        expect much from this either, remember. After all, it seeks to be a popular
                        magazine. We'll see how far we can go with really interesting
                        material. And now if you know of any others like yourself, bring them in
                        here. I need them. I'll pay you for that article, only
                        I'll include it in a better price I'll give you for
                        something else later, see?"
                    I smiled and he smiled. His was a warmth which was infectious when he chose
                        to yield, but it was always a repressed warmth, cynical, a bit hard; heat
                        chained to a purpose, I thought. He went away and I saw him no more until
                        about a week later when he brought me his first attempt to give me what I
                        wanted.
                    In the meantime I was busy organizing a staff which should if possible, I
                        decided after seeing him, include him. I could probably use him as a
                        salaried "special" writer, provided he  could be trained to write
                        "specials." He looked so intelligent and ambitious that he
                        promised much. Besides, the little article which he had left when he came
                        again, while not well organized or arranged as to its ideas or best points,
                        was exceedingly well written from the point of mere expression.
                    And the next thing I had given him to attempt was even better. It was, if I
                        recall correctly, a stirring picture of the East Side, intended to appeal to
                        readers elsewhere than in the city, but while in the matter of color and
                        definiteness of expression as well as choice of words it was exceptional, it
                        was lacking in, quite as the first one had been, the arrangement of its best
                        points. This I explained to him, and also made it clear to him that I could
                        show him how if he would let me. He seemed willing enough, quite anxious,
                        although always with an air of reserve, as if he were accommodating himself
                        to me in this much but no more. He grasped the idea of order swiftly, and in
                        a little while, having worked at a table in an outer room, brought me the
                        rearranged material, almost if not quite satisfactory. During a number of
                        weeks and months thereafter, working on one "special" and
                        another in this way with me, he seemed finally to grasp the theory I had, or
                        at least to develop a method of his own which was quite as satisfactory to
                        me, and I was very much pleased. A little later I employed him at a regular
                        salary.
                    It was pathetic, as I look at it now, the things we were trying to do and the
                        conditions under which we were trying to do themthe raw commercial force and
                        theory which underlay the whole thing, the necessity of explaining and
                        fighting for so much that one should not, as I saw it then, have to argue
                        over at all. We were in new rooms, in a new building, filled with lumber not
                        yet placed and awaiting the completion of partitions which, as some one
                        remarked, "would divide us up." Our publisher and owner
                        was a small, energetic, vibrant and colorful soul, all egotism and
                        middle-class conviction as  to the need of
                        "push," ambition, "closeness to life,"
                        "punch," and what not else, American to the core, and
                        descending on us, or me rather, hourly as it were, demanding the
                        "hows" and the "whyfores" of the dream
                        which the little group I was swiftly gathering about me was seeking to make
                        real.
                    It was essential to me, therefore, that something different should be done,
                        some new fresh note concerning metropolitan life and action be struck; the
                        old, slow and somewhat grandiose methods of reporting and describing things
                        dispensed with, at least in this instance, and here was a youth who seemed
                        able to help me do it. He was so vigorous, so avid of life, so anxious to
                        picture the very atmosphere which this magazine was now seeking to portray.
                        I felt stronger, better for having him around. The growth of the city, the
                        character and atmosphere of a given neighborhood, the facts concerning some
                        great social fortune, event, condition, crime interested him intensely; on
                        the other hand he was so very easy to teach, quick to sense what was wanted
                        and the order in which it must be presented. A few brief technical
                        explanations from me, and he had the art of writing a
                        "special" at his fingertips, and thereafter gave me no
                        real difficulty.
                    But what was more interesting to me than his success in grasping my theory of
                        "special" writing was his own character as it was revealed
                        to me from day to day in intimate working contact with him under these
                        conditions. Here, as I soon learned, and was glad to learn, was no
                        namby-pamby scribbler of the old happy-ending, pretty-nothing school of
                        literary composition. On the contrary he sounded, for the first time in my
                        dealings with literary aspirants of every kind, that sure, sane,
                        penetrating, non-sentimental note so common to the best writers of the
                        Continent, a note entirely free from mush, bravado and cant. He had a style
                        as clear as water, as simple as rain; color, romance, humor; and if a little
                        too much of vanity and self-importance, still one could forgive him for  they were rather well-based. Already used to
                        dealing with literary and artistic aspirants of different kinds in
                        connection with the publications of which I had been a part, this one
                        appealed to me as being the best of them all and a very refreshing change.
                    One day, only a few weeks after I had met him, seeing that I was alert for
                        fiction, poetry and short essays or prose phantasies, all illustrative of
                        the spirit of New York, he brought me a little poem entitled
                        "Neuvain," which interested me greatly. It was so brief
                        and forceful and yet so delicate, a double triolet of the old French order,
                        but with the modernity and flavor of the streets outside, the conduit cars,
                        hand-organs and dancing children of the pavements. The title seemed
                        affected, seeing that the English word "Spring" would have
                        done as well, but it was typical of his mood at the time, his literary
                        adorations. He was in leash to the French school of which de Maupassant was
                        the outstanding luminary, only I did not know it at the time.
                    "Charming," I exclaimed quite enthusiastically. "I
                        like this. Let me see anything else you have. Do you write short
                        stories?"
                    For answer he merely stared at me for a little while in the most examining
                        and arrogant and contemptuous way, as much as to say, "Let me see
                        if you are really worth my time and trouble in this matter," or
                        "This sad specimen of alleged mentality is just beginning to
                        suspect that I might write a short story." Seeing that I merely
                        smiled most genially in return, he finally deigned to say, "Sure, I
                        write short stories. What do you think I'm in the writing game
                        for?"
                    "But you might be interested in novels only or plays, or
                        poetry."
                    "No," he returned after a pause and with that same air of
                        unrelieved condescension, "the short story is what I want to
                        specialize in."
                    
                    "Well," I said to myself, "here is a young cub who
                        certainly has talent, is crowded with it, and yet owing to the kind of thing
                        he is starting out to do and the fact that life will give him slaps and to
                        spare before he is many years older, he needs to be encouraged. I was like
                        that myself not so long ago. And besides, if I do not encourage this type of
                        work financially (which is the best way of all), who will?"
                    About a week later I was given another and still more gratifying surprise,
                        for one day, in his usual condescending manner, he brought to me two short
                        pieces of fiction and laid them most gingerly on my desk with scarcely a
                        word"Here was something I might read if I chose," I
                        believe. The reading of these two stories gave me as much of a start as
                        though I had discovered a fully developed genius. They were so truly new or
                        different in their point of view, so very clear, incisive, brief, with so
                        much point in them (The Second Motive; The Right Man). For
                        by then having been struggling with the short-story problem in other
                        magazine offices before this, I had become not a little pessimistic as to
                        the trend of American short fiction, as well as longthe impossibility of
                        finding any, even supposing it publishable once we had it. My own experience
                        with "Sister Carrie" as well as the fierce opposition or
                        chilling indifference which, as I saw, overtook all those who attempted
                        anything even partially serious in America, was enough to make me believe
                        that the world took anything even slightly approximating the truth as one of
                        the rankest and most criminal offenses possible. One dared not
                        "talk out loud," one dared not report life as it was, as
                        one lived it. And one of the primary warnings I had received from the
                        president of this very organizationa most eager and ambitious and
                        distressing example of that American pseudo-morality which combines a
                        pirate-like acquisitiveness with an inward and absolute conviction of
                        righteousnesswas that while he wanted something new in fiction, something
                        more  virile and life-like than that
                        "mush," as he characterized it, to be found in the current
                        magazines, still (1), it must have a strong appeal for the general reader
                        (!); and (2), be very compelling in fact and clean, as the
                        dear general reader would of course understand that worda solid little pair
                        of millstones which would unquestionably end in mascerating everything vital
                        out of any good story.
                    Still I did not despair; something might be done. And though I sighed, I
                        hoped to be able to make my superior stretch a point in favor of the
                        exceptional thing, or, as the slang phrase went, "slip a few over
                        on him," but that of course meant nothing or something, as you
                        choose. My dream was really to find one or many like this youth, or a
                        pungent kind of realism that would be true and yet within such limits as
                        would make it usable. Imagine, then, my satisfaction in finding these two
                        things, tales that I could not only admire genuinely but that I could
                        publish, things that ought to have an interest for all who knew even a
                        little about life. True, they were ironic, cruel, but still with humor and
                        color, so deftly and cleanly told that they were smile-provoking. I called
                        him and said as much, or nearly soa mistake, as I sometimes think now, for
                        art should be longand bought them forth-with, hoping, almost against hope,
                        to find many more such like them.
                    By this time, by the way, and as I should have said before, I had still
                        further enlarged my staff by one art director of the most flamboyant and
                        erratic character, a genius of sorts, volatile, restless, emotional,
                        colorful, a veritable Verlaine-Baudelaire-Rops soul, who, not content to
                        arrange and decorate the magazine each month, must needs wish to write,
                        paint, compose verse and music and stage plays, as well as move in an upper
                        social world, entre to which was his by birth. Again,
                        there was by now an Irish-Catholic makeup editor, a graduate of some
                        distinguished sectarian school, who was more interested  in St. Jerome and his Vulgate, as an
                        embodiment of classic Latin, than he was in getting out the magazine. Still
                        he had the advantage of being interesting"and I learned about
                        Horace from him." Again, there was a most interesting and youthful
                        and pretty, if severe, example of the Wellesley-Mt. Holyoke-Bryn Mawr school
                        of literary art and criticism, a most engagingly interesting intellectual
                        maiden, who functioned as assistant editor and reader in an adjoining room,
                        along with the art-director, the makeup editor and an office boy. This very
                        valuable and in some respects remarkable young woman, who while holding me
                        in proper contempt, I fear, for my rather loose and unliterary ways, was
                        still, as I had suspected before employing her, as keen for something new
                        and vital in fiction and every other phase of the scriptic art as any one
                        well could be. She was ever for culling, sorting, eliminatingrepression
                        carried to the N-th power. At first L cordially hated her, calling her a
                        "simp," a "bluff," a
                        "la-de-da," and what not. In addition to these there was a
                        constantly swelling band of writers, artists, poets, critics, dreamers of
                        reforms social, and I know not what else, who, holding the hope of achieving
                        their ends or aims through some really forceful magazine, were by now
                        beginning to make our place a center. It fairly swarmed for a time with
                        aspirants; an amusing, vivid, strident world.
                    As for L, all this being new to him, he was as interested, fascinated even,
                        as any one well might be. He responded to it almost gayly at times,
                        wondering whether something wonderful, international, enduring might not be
                        made to come of it. He rapidly developed into one of the most pertinacious
                        and even disconcerting youths I have ever met. At times he seemed to have a
                        positive genius for saying and doing irritable and disagreeable things, not
                        only to me but to others. Never having heard of me before he met me here, he
                        was convinced, I think, that I was a mere nothing, with some slight
                        possibilities  as an editor maybe, certainly
                        with none as a writer or as one who could even suggest anything to writers.
                        I had helped him, but that was as it should be. As for my art-director, he
                        was at first a fool, later a genius; ditto my makeup man.
                    As for Miss E, the Wellesley-Bryn Mawr-Mt. Holyoke assistant, who from the
                        first had agreed with me that here indeed was a writer of promise, a genius
                        really, he, as I have said, at first despised her. Later, by dint of
                        exulting in his force, sincerity of purpose, his keen insight and all but
                        braggart strength, she managed, probably on account of her looks and
                        physical graces, to install herself in his confidence and to convince him
                        that she was not only an honest admirer of his skill but one who had taste
                        and judgment of no mean caliber. Thereafter he was about as agreeable as a
                        semi-caged wild animal would be about any office.
                    But above all he was affronted by M, the publisher of the paper, concerning
                        whom he could find no words equal to his contemptuous thoughts of him. The
                        publisher, as L made quite bold to say to me, was little more than a
                        "dodging, rat-like financial ferret," a
                        "financial stool-pigeon for some trust or other," a
                        "shrewd, material little shopkeeper." This because M was
                        accustomed to enter and force a conversation here and there, anxious of
                        course to gather the full import of all these various energies and
                        enthusiasms. One of the things which L most resented in him at the time was
                        his air of supreme material well-being, his obvious attempt and wish not to
                        convey it, his carefully-cut clothes, his car, his numerous assistants and
                        secretaries following him here and there from various other organizations
                        with which he was connected.
                    M's idea, as he always said, was to spend and to live, only it
                        wasn't. He merely induced others so to do. One of his customs (and
                        it must have impressed L very much, innocent 
                        newcomer that he was) was to have one or another of his hirelings announce
                        his passing from one "important" meeting to another,
                        within or without his own building, telephone messages being
                        "thrown in" on his line or barred out, wherever he
                        happened to be at the moment and when, presumably, he was deep in one of
                        those literary conferences or confidences with one employee or another or
                        with a group, for which he rapidly developed a passion. Another of his
                        vanities was to have his automobile announced and he be almost forced into
                        it by impetuous secretaries, who, because of orders previously given,
                        insisted that he must be made to keep certain important engagements. Or he
                        would send for one of his hirelings, wherever he chanced to beclub,
                        restaurant, his homemidnight if necessary, to confer with him on some
                        subject of great moment, and the hireling was supposed to call a taxi and
                        come post haste in order that he might not be kept waiting.
                    "God!" L once remarked in my presence. "To think
                        that a thinking being has to be beholden to a thing like that for his weekly
                        income! Somebody ought to tap him with a feather-duster and kill
                        him!"
                    But the manner in which L developed in this atmosphere! It was interesting.
                        At first, before the magazine became so significant or well-organized, it
                        was a great pleasure for me to associate with him outside office hours, and
                        a curious and vivid companion he made. He was so intensely avid of life, so
                        intolerant of the old, of anything different to that which he personally
                        desired or saw, that at times it was most difficult to say anything at all
                        for fear of meeting a rebuff or at least a caustic objection. As I was very
                        pleased to note, he had a passion for seeing, as all youth should have when
                        it first comes to the great citythe great bridges, the new tunnels just then
                        being completed or dug, the harbor and bay, Coney Island, the two new and
                        great railway terminals, then under construction. Most, though, he reveled
                        in different  and even depressing
                        neighborhoodsEighth Avenue, for instance, about which he later wrote a
                        story, and a very good one ("A Quiet Duet");
                        Hell's Kitchen, that neighborhood that lies (or did), on the West
                        Side of Manhattan, between Eighth and Tenth Avenues, Thirty-sixth and
                        Forty-first Streets; Little Italy, the region below Delancey and north of
                        Worth Street on the East Side; Chinatown; Washington Street (Syria in
                        America); the Greeks in Twenty-seventh and eighth Streets, West Side. All
                        these and many more phases of New York's multiplex life took his
                        full and restless attention. Once he said to me quite excitedly, walking up
                        Eighth Avenue at two in the morningI was showing him some rear tenement
                        slums in the summertime"God, how I hate to go to bed in this town!
                        I'm afraid something will happen while I'm asleep and I
                        won't see it!" That was exactly how he felt all the time,
                        I am sure.
                    And in those days he was most simple, a very Spartan of a boy. He
                        hadn't the least taste for drink, lived in a small hall-bedroom
                        somewhereEighth Avenue, I believeand took his meals in those shabby little
                        quick-lunch rooms where the characters were more important to him than the
                        food. (My hatmy hat is in my hand!) Intellectually he was so stern and
                        ambitious that I all but stood in awe of and reverence before him. Here, I
                        said to myself, is one who will really do; let him be as savage as he
                        pleases. In America he probably needs to be.
                    And during this short time, what scraps of his early life he revealed! By
                        degrees I picked up bits of his early deprivations and difficulties, if such
                        they might be called. He had been a newspaper reporter, or had tried to be,
                        in Kansas City, had worked in the college restaurant and laundry of the
                        middle-West State university from which he had graduated, to help pay his
                        way. Afterward he had assisted the janitor of some great skyscraper
                        somewhereKansas City, I believe  and, what was
                        most pleasing to me, he in nowise emphasized these as youthful difficulties
                        or made any comment as to their being "hard." Neither did
                        he try to boastingly minimize them as nothing at allanother wretched pose.
                        From him I learned that throughout his youth he had been carried here and
                        there by the iron woman who was his mother and whom he seemed to adore in
                        some grim contentious way, smothering his comments as though he disliked to
                        say anything at all, and yet describing her at times as coarse and vulgar,
                        but a mother to him "all right," some one who had made
                        marked sacrifices for him.
                    She had once "run" a restaurant in a Western mining camp,
                        had then or later carried him as a puling baby under her shawl or cloak
                        across the Mojave Desert, on foot a part of the way. Apparently he did not
                        know who his father was, and he was not very much concerned to know whether
                        she did or not. His father had died, he said, when he was a baby. Later his
                        mother, then a cook in some railroad hotel in Texas, had sent him to school
                        there. Later still she had been a "bawler out," if you
                        know what that means, an employee of a loan shark and used by him to compel
                        delinquent, albeit petty and pathetic, creditors to pay their dues or then
                        and there, before all their fellow-workers, be screamed at for their
                        delinquency about the shop in which they worked! Later she became a private
                        detective! an insurance agentGod knows whata kind of rough man-woman, as she
                        turned out to be, but all the while clinging to this boy, her pet, no doubt
                        her dream of perfection. She had by turns sent him to common and high school
                        and to college, remitting him such sums of money as she might to pay his
                        way. Later still (at that very time in fact) she was seeking to come to New
                        York to keep house for him, only he would not have that, perhaps sensing the
                        need of greater freedom. But he wrote her regularly, as he confessed to me,
                        and in later years I believe sent her a part 
                        of his earnings, which were to be saved by her for him against a rainy day.
                        Among his posthumous writings later I found a very lovely story
                        ("His Mother"), describing her and himself in unsparing
                        and yet loving terms, a compound of the tender and the brutal in his own
                        soul.
                    The thing that always made me hope for the best was that at that time he was
                        not at all concerned with the petty little moralic and
                        economic definitions and distinctions which were floating about his American
                        world in one form and another. Indeed he seemed to be entirely free of and
                        even alien to them. What he had heard about the indwelling and abiding
                        perfections of the human soul had gone, and rightly so, in one ear and out
                        the other. He respected the virtues, but he knew of and reckoned with the
                        antipathetic vices which gave them their reason for being. To him the thief
                        was almost as important as the saint, the reason for the saint's
                        being. And, better still, he had not the least interest in American politics
                        or societya wonderful sign. The American dream of "getting
                        ahead" financially and socially was not part of himanother mark
                        royal. All life was fascinating, acceptable, to be interpreted if one had
                        the skill; it was a great distinction to have the skillworth endless pains
                        to acquire it.
                    But how unwilling would the average American of his day have been, stuffed as
                        he was and still is with book and picture drivel about artists and art, to
                        accept L as anything more than a raw, callow yokel, presuming to assail the
                        outer portals of the temple with his muddy feet! A romping, stamping,
                        irritable soul, with more the air of a young railroad brakeman or
                        "hand," than an artist, and with so much coarse language
                        at times and such brutality of thought as to bar him completely, one might
                        say, from having anything to do with great fiction, great artistic
                        conceptions, or the temple of art. What, sit with the mighty!that coarse
                        youth, with darkish-brown hair parted at one side and combed over one ear,
                        in the manner  of a grandiose barber; with
                        those thick-soled and none too shapely brown shoes, that none too well-made
                        store suit of clothes, that little round brown hat, more often a cap, pulled
                        rather savagely and vulgarly, even insultingly, over one eye; that coarse
                        frieze overcoat, still worn on cold spring days, its
                        "corners" back and front turned up by the damp and from
                        being indifferently sat on; that brash corn-cob pipe and bag of cheap
                        tobacco, extracted and lit at odd moments; what, that youth with the
                        aggressive, irritating vibrant manneralmost the young tough with a chip on
                        his shoulder looking for one to even so much as indicate that he is not all
                        he should be! Positively, there was something brutal and yet cosmic (not
                        comic) about him, his intellectual and art pretensions considered. At times
                        his waspishness and bravado palled even on me. He was too aggressive, too
                        forceful, too intolerant, I said. He should be softer. At other times I felt
                        that he needed to be all that and more to "get by," as he
                        would have said. I wanted to modify him a littleand yet I didn'tand
                        I remained drawn to him in spite of many irritating little circumstances,
                        all but infuriating at times, and actually calculated, it seemed, with a
                        kind of savage skill to reduce what he conceived to be my lofty superiority.
                        At times I thought he ought to be killedlike a father meditating on an
                        unruly sonbut the mood soon passed and his literary ability made amends for
                        everything.
                    In so far as the magazine was concerned, once it began to grow and attract
                        attention he was for me its most important asset; not that he did so much
                        directly as that he provided a definite standard toward which we all had to
                        work. Not incuriously, he was swiftly recognized for what he was by all who
                        came in touch with the magazine. In the first place, interested in his
                        progress, I had seen to it that he was properly introduced wherever that was
                        possible and of benefit to him and later on, by sheer force of his mental
                        capacity and integrity,  his dreams and his
                        critical skill, he managed to center about him an entire band of seeking
                        young writers, artists, poets, playwrights, aspiring musicians; an amusing
                        and as interesting a group as I have ever seen. Their points of rendezvous
                        appeared to be those same shabby quick-lunches in back streets or even on
                        the principal thoroughfares about Times Square, or they met in each
                        other's rooms or my office at night after I had gone, giving me as
                        an excuse that they had work to do. And during all this time the air fairly
                        hummed with rumors of new singers, dancers, plays, stories being begun or
                        under way, articles and essays contemplated; avid, if none too well financed
                        frolics or bohemian midnight suppers here and there. Money was by no means
                        plentiful, and in consequence there was endless borrowing and
                        "paying up" among them. Among the most enthusiastic
                        members of this circle, as I had begun to note, and finally rather
                        nervously, were my art-director, a valiant knight in Bohemia if ever there
                        was one, and she of Bryn Mawr-Wellesley standards. My makeup editor, as well
                        as various contributors who had since become more or less closely identified
                        with the magazine, were also following him up all the time.
                    If not directly profitable it was enlivening, and I was fairly well convinced
                        by now that from the point of view of being "aware,"
                        "in touch with," "in sympathy with" many
                        of the principal tendencies and undercurrents which make for a
                        magazine's success and precedence, this group was as valuable to me
                        as any might well be. It constituted a "kitchen cabinet"
                        of sorts and brought hundreds of interesting ideas to the surface, and from
                        all directions. Now it would be a new and hitherto unheard-of tenor who was
                        to be brought from abroad and introduced with great noise to repute-loving
                        Americans; a new sculptor or painter who had never been heard of in America;
                        a great actor, perhaps, or poet or writer. I listened to any quantity of
                        gossip in regard to new movements that were 
                        ready to burst upon the world, in sculpture, painting, the scriptic art.
                        About the whole group there was much that was exceedingly warm, youthful,
                        full of dreams. They were intensely informative and full of hope, and I used
                        to look at them and wonder which one, if any, was destined to have his
                        dreams realized.
                    Of L however I never had the least doubt. He began, it is true, to adopt
                        rather more liberal tendencies, to wish always to be part and parcel of this
                        gayety, this rushing here and there; and he drank at timesdue principally,
                        as I thought, to my wildling art-director, who had no sense or reserve in
                        matters material or artistic and who was all for a bacchanalian career, cost
                        what it might. On more than one occasion I heard L declaring roundly,
                        apropos of some group scheme of pilgrimage, "No, no! I will not. I
                        am going home now!" He had a story he wanted to
                        work on, an article to finish. At the same time he would often agree that if
                        by a certain time, when he was through, they were still at a certain place,
                        or a second or third, he would look them up. Never, apparently, did his work
                        suffer in the least.
                    And it was about this time that I began to gather the true source and import
                        of his literary predisposition. He was literally obsessed, as I now
                        discovered, with Continental and more especially the French conception of
                        art in writing. He had studied the works as well as the temperaments and
                        experiences (more especially the latter, I fear) of such writers as de
                        Maupassant, Flaubert, Baudelaire, Balzac, de Musset, Sand, Daudet, Dumas
                        junior, and Zola, as well as a number of the more recent writers: Hervieu,
                        Bourget, Louys and their contemporaries. Most of all, though, he was
                        impressed, and deeply, by the life and art of de Maupassant, his method of
                        approach, his unbiased outlook on life, his freedom from moral and religious
                        and even sentimental predisposition. In the beginning of his literary career
                        I really believe he slaved to  imitate him
                        exactly, although he could not very well escape the American temperament and
                        rearing by which he was hopelessly conditioned. A certain Western critic and
                        editor, to whom he had first addressed his hopes and scribblings before
                        coming to me, writing me after L's death in reference to a period
                        antedating that in which I had known him, observed, "He was crazy
                        about the fin de sicle stuff that then held the boards and
                        from which (I hope the recording angel will put it to my credit) I steered
                        him clear." I think so; but he was still very much interested in
                        it. He admired Aubrey Beardsley, the poster artists of France, Verlaine,
                        Baudelaire, Rops, the Yellow Book, even Oscar Wilde, although his was a far
                        more substantial and plebeian and even radical point of view.
                    Unfortunately for L, I have always thought, there now thrust himself forward
                        the publisher and owner of the magazine, who from previously having been
                        content to see that the mercantile affairs of the magazine were in good
                        order, had decided that since it was attracting attention he should be
                        allowed to share in its literary and artistic prestige, should indeed be
                        closely identified with it and recognized as its true source and
                        inspirationa thing which in no fashion had been contemplated by me when I
                        went there. From having agreed very distinctly with me that no such
                        interference would at any time be indulged in, he now came forward with a
                        plan for an advisory council which was to consist of himself and the very
                        members of the staff which I had created.
                    I could not object and it did not disturb me so much personally. For some
                        time I had been sensing that the thing was for me no end in itself, but an
                        incident. This same I felt to be true for L, who had been taking more and
                        more interest in the magazine's technical composition. At the same
                        time I saw no immediate way of arranging my affairs and departing, which
                        left me,  for a very little while, more or
                        less of a spectator. During this time I had the dissatisfaction of noting
                        the growth of an influence with L which could, as I saw, prove only harmful.
                        M was no suitable guide for him. He was a brilliant but superficial and very
                        material type who was convinced that in the having and holding of many
                        things materialhouses, lands, corporation stocks, a place in the clubs and
                        circles of those who were materially prosperouswas really to achieve all
                        that was significant in the now or the hereafter. Knowing comparatively
                        nothing of either art or letters, or that subtle thing which makes for
                        personality and atmosphere in a magazine or in writing (and especially the
                        latter), that grateful something which attracts and detains one, he was
                        nevertheless convinced that he did. And what was more, he was determined not
                        only to make friends with and hold all those whom I might have attracted,
                        providing they could prove useful to him, but also a number of a much more
                        successful group in these fields, those who had already achieved repute in a
                        more commonplace and popular way and were therefore presumably possessed of
                        a following and with the power to exact a high return for their product, and
                        for the magazine, regardless of intrinsic merit. His constant talk was of
                        money, its power to attract and buy, the significance of all things
                        material. He now wanted the magazine to be representative of this glowing
                        element, and at the same time, paradoxical as it might seem, the best that
                        might be in literary and artistic thought.
                    Naturally the thing was impossible, but he had a facile and specious method
                        of arguing, a most gay and in some respects magnetic personality, far from
                        stodgy or gross, which for a time attracted many to him. Very briskly then
                        indeed he proceeded to make friends with all those with whom I had
                        surrounded myself, to enter into long and even private discussions with them
                        as to the proper conduct of the magazine, to hint quite broadly at a
                        glorious future in which all,  each one
                        particularly to whom he talked, was to share. Curiously, this new and (as I
                        would have thought) inimical personality of M seemed to appeal to L very
                        much.
                    I do not claim that the result was fatal. It may even, or at least might,
                        have had value, combined with an older or slightly more balanced
                        temperament. But it seemed to me that it offered too quickly what should
                        have come, if at all, as the result of much effort. For in regard to the
                        very things L should have most guarded againstshow and the shallow pleasures
                        of social and night and material life in New YorkM was most specious. I
                        never knew a more intriguing and fascinating man in this respect nor one who
                        cared less for those he used to obtain his unimportant ends. He had positive
                        genius for making the gaudy and the unworthy seem worthy and even perfect.
                        During his earlier days there, L had more than once "cursed him
                        out" (in his absence, of course), to use his own expressive phrase,
                        for his middle-West trade views, as he described them, his shabby social and
                        material ideals, and yet, as I could plainly see, even at that time the
                        virus of his theories was working. For it must be remembered that L was very
                        new to New York, very young, and never having had much of anything he was no
                        doubt slightly envious of the man's material facility, the sense of
                        all-sufficiency, exclusiveness and even a kind of petty trade grandeur with
                        which he tried to surround himself.
                    Well, that might not have proved fatal either, only L needed some one to keep
                        him true to himself, his individual capabilities, to constantly caution and
                        if possible sober him to his very severe taste, and as it was he was all but
                        surrounded by acolytes and servitors.
                    A little later, having left M's and assumed another editorial
                        position, and being compelled to follow the various current magazines more
                        or less professionally, I was disturbed to note that there began to appear
                        in various publications  especially
                        M's, which was flourishing greatly for the momentstories which
                        while exhibiting much of the deftness and repression as well as an avidity
                        for the true color of things, still showed what I had at first feared they
                        might: a decided compromise. That curse of all American fiction, the
                        necessarily happy ending, had been impressed on himby whom? To my sincere
                        dissatisfaction, he began writing stories, some at least, which concerned
                        (1), a young woman who successfully abandoned art dreams for advertising;
                        (2), a middle-aged charmer, female, who attempted libertinage and was defeated, American style; (3), a Christmas picture
                        with sweetness and light reigning on every hand (Dickens at his
                        sentimentalest could have done no worse); (4), a Broadway press agent who,
                        attempting to bring patronage to a great hotel via chic vice, accidentally
                        and unintentionally mates an all-too-good young society man turned hotel
                        manager to a grand heiress. And so on and so on, not ad infinitum but for a
                        period at leastthe ten years in which he managed to live and work.
                    And, what was more, during this new period I heard and occasionally saw
                        discouraging things in connection with him from time to time. True to his
                        great promise, for I sincerely think M had a genuine fondness for his young
                        protg, as much of a fondness as he could well have for anything, he
                        guaranteed him perhaps as much as three thousand a year; sent him to
                        Stockholm at the age or twenty-four or five to meet and greet the famous
                        false pole discoverer, Doctor Cook; allowed him to go to Paris in connection
                        with various articles; to Rome; sent him into the middle and far West; to
                        Broadway for dramatic and social studies. Well and good, only he wanted
                        always in what was done for him the "uplift" note, the
                        happy endingor at least one not vulgar or lowwhereas my idea in connection
                        with L, gifted as he was, was that he should confine himself to fiction as
                        an art and without any regard to theories or types of ending, believing, as
                        I did, that he  would definitely establish
                        himself in that way in the long run. I had no objection of course to
                        experiences of various kinds, his taking up with any line of work which
                        might seem at the moment far removed from realistic writing, providing
                        always that the star of his ideal was in sight. Whenever he wrote, be it
                        early or late, it must be in the clear, incisive, uncompromising vein of
                        these first stories and with that passion for revelation which characterized
                        him at first, that same unbiased and unfettered non-moral viewpoint.
                    But after meeting with and working for M under this new arrangement and being
                        apparently fascinated for the moment by his personality, he seemed to me to
                        gradually lose sight of his ideal, to be actually taken in by the plausible
                        arguments which the latter could spin with the ease that a spider spins
                        gossamer. In that respect I insist that M was a bad influence. Under his
                        tutelage L gradually became, for instance, an habitu of a well-known and
                        pseudobohemian chop-house, a most mawkish and navely imitative affair,
                        intended frankly to be a copy or even the original, forsooth, of an old
                        English inn, done, in so far as its woodwork was concerned, in smoked or
                        dark-stained oak to represent an old English interior, its walls covered
                        with long-stemmed pipes and pictures of English hunting and drinking scenes,
                        its black-stained but unvarnished tables littered with riding, driving and
                        country-life society papers, to give it that air of sans
                            ceremonie with an upper world of which its habitus probably
                        possessed no least inkling but most eagerly craved. Here, along with a
                        goodly group of his latter-day friends, far different from those by whom he
                        had first been surroundeda pretentious society poet of no great merit but
                        considerable self-emphasis, a Wall Street broker, posing as a club man, raconteur, "first-nighter" and what not,
                        and several young and ambitious playwrights, all seeking the heaven of a
                        Broadway successhe began to pose as one of the intimates of the  great city, its bosom child as it were, the
                        cynosure and favorite of its most glittering precinctsa most M like
                        proceeding. His clothes by now, for I saw him on occasion, had taken on a
                        more lustrous if less convincing aspect than those he had worn when I first
                        knew him. The small round hat or rakish cap, typical of his Western dreams,
                        had now given way to a most pretentious square-topped derby, beloved, I
                        believe, of undertakers and a certain severe type of banker as well as some
                        clergymen, only it was a light brown. His suit and waistcoat were of a
                        bright English tweed, reddish-brown or herring-bone gray by turns, his shoes
                        box-toed perfections of the button type. He carried a heavy cane, often a
                        bright leather manuscript case, and seemed intensely absorbed in the great
                        and dramatic business of living and writing. "One must,"
                        so I read him at this time, "take the pleasures as well as the
                        labors of this world with the utmost severity." Here, with a grand
                        manner, he patronized the manager and the waiters, sent word to his friend
                        the cook, who probably did not know him at all, that his chop or steak was
                        to be done just so. These friends of his, or at least one of them (the poet)
                        he met every day at five for an all-essential game of chess, after which an
                        evening paper was read and the chop ordered. Alenot beerin a pewter mug was
                            comme il faut, the only thing for a gentleman of
                        letters, worthy of the name, to drink.
                    I am sorry to write so, for after all youth must have its fling. Still, I had
                        expected better of L, and I was a little disappointed to see that earlier
                        dream of simplicity and privation giving way to an absolutely worthless
                        show. Besides, twenty or thirty such stories as "The Right
                        Man," "Sweet Dreams," "The Man With the
                        Broken Fingers," "The Second Motive," would
                        outweigh a thousand of the things he was getting published and the profits
                        of which permitted him these airs.
                    Again, during the early days of his success with M, he  had marrieda young nurse who had previously been a clerk in a
                        store, a serious, earnest and from one point of view helpful person, seeing
                        that she could keep his domestic affairs in order and bear him children,
                        which she did, but she had no understanding of, or flare for, the type of
                        thing he was called upon to do. She had no instinct for literature or the
                        arts, and aside from her domestic capacities little skill or taste for
                        "socializing." And, naturally, he was neglecting her. His
                        head was probably surging with great ideas of art and hence a social
                        supremacy which might well carry him anywhere. He had bought a farm some
                        distance from New York, where in a community supposedly inhabited by
                        successful and superior men of letters he posed as a farmer at times, mowing
                        and cocking hay as became a Western plow-boy; and also, as the mood moved
                        him, and as became a great and secluded writer, working in a den entirely
                        surrounded by books in fine leather bindings (!) and being visited by those
                        odd satellites of the scriptic art who see in genius of this type the summum bonum of life. It was the thing to do at that time,
                        for a writer to own a farm and work it. Horace had. One individual in
                        particular, a man of genuine literary and critical ability and great taste
                        in the matter of all the arts but with no least interest in or tolerance for
                        the simplicities of effort, came here occasionally, as I heard, to help him
                        pile hay, and this in a silk shirt and a monocle; a secondand a most
                        fascinating intellectual flaneur, who, however, had no
                        vision or the gift of dreamscame to eat, drink, talk of many things to be
                        done, to steal a few ideas, borrow a little money perhaps or consume a
                        little morphine, and depart; a third came to spout of his success in
                        connection with plays, or his proposed successes; a fourth to paint a
                        picture, urged on by L; a fifth to compose rural verse; a sixth, a broker or
                        race-track tout or city bartender (for color, this last), to marvel that one
                        of L's sense, or any one indeed, should  live in the country at all. There were drinking bouts,
                        absolute drunkenness, in which, according to the Johnsonian tradition and
                        that of Messieurs Rabelais and Molire, the weary intellect and
                        one's guiding genius were immersed in a comforting Lethe of rye.
                    Such things cost money, however. In addition, my young friend, due to a
                        desire no doubt to share in the material splendors of his age (a doctrine M
                        was ever fond of spoutingand as a duty, if you please), had saddled himself,
                        for a time at least, with an apartment in an exclusive square on the East
                        Side, the rent of which was a severe drain. Before this there had been, and
                        after it were still, others, obligations too much for him to bear
                        financially, all in the main taken for show, that he might be considered a
                        literary success. Now and again (so I was told by several of his intimates),
                        confronted by a sudden exhaustion of his bank balance, he would leave some
                        excellent apartment house or neighborhood, where for a few months he had
                        been living in grand style, extracting his furniture as best he might, or
                        leaving it and various debts beside, and would take refuge in some shabby
                        tenement, or rear rooms even, and where, touched by remorse or encouraged by
                        the great literary and art traditions (Balzac, Baudelaire, Johnson,
                        Goldsmith, Verlaine) he would toil unendingly at definite money-yielding
                        manuscripts, the results of which carried to some well-paying successful magazine would yield him sufficient to return to the
                        white lightsoften even to take a better apartment than that which last had
                        been his. By now, however, one of the two children he eventually left behind
                        him had been born. His domestic cares were multiplying, the marriage idea
                        dull. Still he did not hesitate to continue those dinners given to his
                        friends, the above-mentioned group or its spiritual kin, either in his
                        apartment or in a bohemian restaurant of great show in New York. In short,
                        he was a fairly successful short-story writer and critic in whom  still persisted a feeling that he would yet
                        triumph in the adjacent if somewhat more difficult field of popular fiction.
                    It was during this period, if I may interpolate an incident, that I was
                        waiting one night in a Broadway theater lobby for a friend to appear, when
                        who should arrive on the scene but L, most outlandishly dressed in what I
                        took to be a reductio ad absurdum of his first pose, as I
                        now half-feared it to be: that of the uncouth and rugged young American,
                        disclaiming style in dress at least, and content to be a clod in looks so
                        long as he was a Shelley in brains. His suit was of that coarse ill-fitting
                        character described as Store, and shelf-worn; his shoes all but dusty
                        brogans, his headgear a long-visored yellowish-and-brown cross-barred cap.
                        He had on a short, badly-cut frieze overcoat, his hands stuck defiantly in
                        his trousers pockets, forcing its lapels wide open. And he appeared to be
                        partially if not entirely drunk, and very insolent. I had the idea that the
                        drunkenness and the dress were a pose, or else that he had been in some
                        neighborhood in search of copy which required such an outfit. Charitably let
                        us accept the last. He was accompanied by two satellic souls who were doing
                        their best to restrain him.
                    "Come, now! Don't make a scene. We'll see the show
                        all right!"
                    "Sure we'll see the show!" he returned
                        contentiously. "Where's the manager?"
                    A smug mannikin whose uniform was a dress suit, the business manager himself,
                        eyed him in no friendly spirit from a nearby corner.
                    "This is Mr. L," one of the satellites now approached and
                        explained to the manager. "He's connected with
                        M's Magazine. He does short stories and dramatics
                        occasionally."
                    The manager bowed. After all, M's Magazine had come to have some
                        significance on Broadway. It was as well to be civil. Courtesy was extended
                        for three, and they went in.
                    
                    As for myself, I resented the mood and the change. It was in no way my
                        affairhis life was his ownand still I resented it. I did not believe that he
                        was as bad as he seemed. He had too much genuine sense. It was just boyish
                        swagger and show, and still it was time that he was getting over that and
                        settling down. I really hoped that time would modify all this.
                    One thing that made me hope for the best was that very shortly after this
                        M's Magazine blew completely up, leaving him without that
                        semi-financial protection which I felt was doing him so much harm. The next
                        favorable sign that I observed was that a small volume of short stories,
                        some sixteen in number, and containing the cream of his work up to that
                        time, was brought to a publishing house with which I was financially
                        identified at the time, and although no word was said to me (I really think
                        he took great care not to see me), still it was left and on my advice
                        eventually published (it sold, I believe, a little under five hundred
                        copies). But the thing that cheered me was that it contained not one story
                        which could be looked upon as a compromise with his first views. And better,
                        it had been brought to the concern with which I was connectedintentionally,
                        I am sure. I was glad to have had a hand in its publication. "At
                        least," I said, "he has not lost sight of his first ideal.
                        He may go on now."
                    And thereafter, in one magazine and another, excellent enough to have but a
                        small circulation, I saw something of his which had genuine merit. A Western
                        critical journal began to publish a series of essays by him, for which I am
                        sure he received nothing at all. Again, three or four years later, a second
                        volume of stories, almost if not quite as good as his first, was issued by
                        this same Western paper. He was trying to do serious work; but he still
                        sought and apparently craved those grand scenes on the farm or in some New
                        York restaurant or an expensive apartment, and when he could no longer
                        afford  it. He still wrote happy-ending, or
                        compromise, stories for any such magazine as would receive him, and was
                        apparently building up a reasonably secure market for them. In the meantime
                        the moving-picture scenario market had developed, and he wrote for it. His
                        eyes were also turning toward the stage, as one completed manuscript and
                        several "starts" turned over to me after his death proved.
                        One day some one who knew him and me quite well assured me that L, having
                        sent out many excellent stories only to have them returned, had one day
                        cried and then raged, cursing America for its attitude toward serious
                        lettersan excellent sign, I thought, good medicine for one who must
                        eventually forsake his hope of material grandeur and find himself.
                        "In time, in time," I said, "he will eat through
                        the husks of these other things, the 'M complex,' and do
                        something splendid. He can't help it. But this fantastic dream of
                        grandeur, of being a popular success, will have to be lived down."
                    For a time now I heard but little more save once that he was connected with a
                        moving-picture concern, suggesting plots and making some money. Then I saw a
                        second series of essays in the same Western critical paperthat of the editor
                        who had published his bookand some of them were excellent, very searching
                        and sincere. I felt that he was moving along the right line, although they
                        earned him nothing. Then one week, very much to my surprise, there was a
                        very glowing and extended commentary on myself, concerning which for the
                        time being I decided to make no comment; and a little later, perhaps three
                        weeks, a telephone call. Did I recall him? (!) Could he come and see me? (!)
                        I invited him to dinner, and he came, carrying, of all thingsand for him,
                        the ex-railroad boya great armful of red roses. This touched me.
                    "What's the idea?" I inquired jovially, laughing
                        at him.
                    He blushed like a girl, a little irritably too, I thought, for he found me
                        (as perhaps he had hoped not to) examining and  critical, and he may have felt that I was laughing at him, which I
                        wasn't. "I wished to give them to you, and I brought
                        'em. Why shouldn't I?"
                    "You know you should bring them if you want me to have them, and
                        I'm only too glad to get them, anyway. Don't think
                        I'm criticizing."
                    He smiled and began at once on the "old days," as he now
                        called them, a sad commentary on our drifting days. Indeed he seemed able to
                        talk of little else or fast enough or with too much enthusiasm. He went over
                        many things and peopleM; K, the wonderful art-director, now insane and a
                        wreck; the group of which he and I had once been a part; his youthful and
                        unsophisticated viewpoint at the time. "You know," he
                        confessed quite frankly finally, "my mother always told me then and
                        afterwards that I made a mistake in leaving you. You were the better
                        influence for me. She was right. I know it now. Still, a life's a
                        life, and we have to work through it and ourselves somehow."
                    I agreed heartily.
                    He told me of his wife, children, farm, his health and his difficulties. It
                        appeared that he was making a bare living at times, at others doing very
                        well. His great bane was the popular magazine, the difficulty of selling a
                        good thing. It was true, I said, and at midnight he left, promising to come
                        again, inviting me to come to his place in the country at my convenience. I
                        promised.
                    But one thing and another interfered. I went South. One day six months later,
                        after I had returned, he called up once more, saying he wished to see me. Of
                        course I asked him down and he came and spoke of his health. Some doctor, an
                        old college pal of his, was assuring him that he had Bright's
                        disease and that he might die at any time. He wanted to know, in case
                        anything happened to him, would I look after his many mss., most of which,
                        the most serious efforts at least, had  never
                        been published. I agreed. Then he went away and I never saw him again. A
                        year later I was one day informed that he had died three days before of
                        kidney trouble. He had been West to see a moving-picture director; on his
                        way East he had been taken ill and had stopped off with friends somewhere to
                        be treated, or operated upon. A few weeks later he had returned to New York,
                        but refusing to rest and believing that he could not die, so soon, had kept
                        out of doors and in the city, until suddenly he did collapse. Or, rather, he
                        met his favorite doctor, an intellectual savage like himself, who with some
                        weird desire to appear forceful, definite, unsentimental perhapsa mental
                        condition L most fanciedhad told him to go home and to bed, for he would be
                        dead in forty-eight hours!a fine bit of assurance which perhaps as much as
                        anything else assisted L to die. At any rate and in spite of the
                        ministrations of his wife, who wished to defy the doctor and who in her hope
                        for herself and her children as well as him strove to contend against this
                        gloom, he did so go to bed and did die. On the last day, realizing no doubt
                        how utterly indifferent his life had been, how his main aspirations or great
                        dreams had been in the main nullified by passions, necessities, crass chance
                        (how well he was fitted to understand that!) he broke down and cried for
                        hours. Then he died.
                    A friend who had known much of this last period, said to me rather
                        satirically, "He was dealing with death in the shape of a medic.
                        Have you ever seen him?" The doctor, he meant. "He looks
                        like an advertisement for an undertaker. I do believe he was trying to
                        discover whether he could kill somebody by the power of suggestion, and he
                        met L in the nick of time. You know how really sensitive he was. Well, that
                        medic killed him, the same as you would kill a bird with a bullet. He said
                        'You're already dead,' and he was."
                    Andoh yesM, his former patron. At the time  of
                        L's sickness and death he was still owing him $1100 for services
                        rendered during the last days of that unfortunate magazine. He had never
                        been called upon to pay his debts, for he had sunk through one easy trapdoor
                        of bankruptcy only to rise out of another, smiling and with the means to
                        continue. Yes, he was rich again, rated A No. 1, the president of a great
                        corporation, and with L's $1100 still unpaid and now not legally
                        "collectible." His bank balance, established by a friend
                        at the time, was exactly one hundred thousand.
                    But Mrs. L, anxious to find some way out of her difficulty since her husband
                        was lying cold, and knowing of no one else to whom to turn, had written to
                        him. There was no food in the house, no medicine, no way to feed the
                        children at the moment. That matter of $1100 nowcould he spare a little? L
                        had thought
                    A letter in answer was not long in arriving, and a most moving My document it
                        was. M had been stunned by the dreadful news, stunned. Could it really be?
                        Could it? His young brilliant friend? Impossible! At the dread, pathetic
                        news he had criedyes he hadcriedand criedand criedand then he had even cried
                        some more. Life was so sad, so grim. As for him, his own affairs were never
                        in so wretched a condition. It was unfortunate. Debts there were on every
                        hand. They haunted him, robbed him of his sleep. He himself scarcely knew
                        which way to turn. They stood in serried ranks, his debts. A slight push on
                        the part of any one, and he would be crushedcrushedgo down in ruin. And so,
                        as much as he was torn, and as much as he cried, even now, he could do
                        nothing, nothing, nothing. He was agonized, beaten to earth, but still Then,
                        having signed it, there was a P. S. or an N. B. This stated that in looking
                        over his affairs he had just discovered that by stinting himself in another
                        direction he could manage to scrape together twenty-five
                        dollars, and this he was enclosing. Would 
                        that God had designed that he should be better placed at this sad hour!
                    However that may be, I at once sent for the mss and they came, a jumbled mass
                        in two suitcases and a portfolio; and a third suitcase, so I was informed,
                        containing all of a hundred mss., mostly stories, had been lost somewhere!
                        There had been much financial trouble of late and more than one enforced
                        move. Mrs. L had been compelledbut I will not tell all. Suffice it to say
                        that he had such an end as his own realistic pen might have satirically
                        craved.
                    The mss., finally sorted, tabulated and read, yielded two small volumes of
                        excellent tales, all unpublished, the published material being all but
                        uniformly worthless. There was also the attempt at a popular comedy,
                        previously mentioned, a sad affair, and a volume of essays, as well as a
                        very, very slender but charming volume of verse, in case a publisher could
                        ever be found for thema most agreeable little group, showing a pleasing
                        sense of form and color and emotion. I arranged them as best I could and
                        finally
                    But they are still unpublished.
                    P. S. As for the sum total of the work left by L, its very best, it might be
                        said that although he was not a great psychologist, still, owing to a
                        certain pretentiousness of assertion at times, one might unthinkingly
                        suppose he was. Neither had he, as yet, any fixed theories of art or
                        definite style of his own, imitating as he was now de Maupassant, now O.
                        Henry, now Poe; but also it must be said that slowly and surely he was
                        approximating one, original and forceful and water-clear in expression and
                        naturalness. At times he veered to a rather showy technique, at others to a
                        cold and even harsh simplicity. Yet always in the main he had color, beauty,
                        emotion, poignance when necessary. Like his idol, de Maupassant,  he had no moral or strong social prejudices,
                        no really great or disturbing imagination, no wealth of perplexing ideas. He
                        saw America and life as something to be painted as all masters see life and
                        paint it. Gifted with a true vein of satire, he had not, at the time of his
                        death, quite mastered its possibilities. He still retained prejudice of one
                        type or another, which he permitted to interfere with the very smooth
                        arrangement of his colors. At the same time, had he not been disturbed by so
                        many of the things which in America, as elsewhere, ordinarily assail an
                        ambitious and earnest writerthe prejudice against naturalness and sincerity
                        in matters of the intellect and the facts of life, and the consequent
                        difficulty of any one so gifted in obtaining funds at any timehe might have
                        done much better sooner. He was certain to come into his own eventually had
                        he lived. His very accurate and sensitive powers of observation, his
                        literary taste, his energy and pride in his work, were destined to carry him
                        there. It could not have been otherwise. Ten years more, judging by the rate
                        at which he worked, his annual product and that which he did leave, one
                        might say that in the pantheon of American letters it is certain that he
                        would have proved a durable if not one of its great figures, and he might
                        well have been that. As it stands, it is not impossible that he will be so
                        recognized, if for no more than the sure promise of his genius.
                
                
                
                    THE VILLAGE FEUDISTS
                    IN a certain Connecticut fishing-town sometime since,
                        where, besides lobstering, a shipyard and some sail-boat-building there
                        existed the several shops and stores which catered to the wants of those who
                        labored in those lines, there dwelt a groceryman by the name of Elihu
                        Burridge, whose life and methods strongly point the moral and social
                        successes and failures of the rural man.
                    Sixty years of age, with the vanities and desires of the average
                        man's life behind rather than before him, he was at the time not
                        unlike the conventional drawings of Parson Thirdly, which graced the
                        humorous papers of that day. Two moon-shaped eyes, a long upper lip, a mouth
                        like the sickle moon turned downward, prominent ears, a rather long face and
                        a mutton-chop-shaped whisker on either cheek, served to give him that
                        clerical appearance which the humorous artists so religiously seek to
                        depict. Add to this that he was middle-sized, clerically spare in form,
                        reserved and quiet in demeanor, and one can see how he might very readily
                        give the impression of being a minister. His clothes, however, were old, his
                        trousers torn but neatly mended, his little blue gingham jumper which he
                        wore about the store greasy and aged. Everything about him and his store was
                        so still and dark that one might have been inclined on first sight to
                        consider him crusty and morose.
                    Even more remarkable than himself, however, was his store. I have seen many
                        in my time that were striking because of their neatness; I never saw one
                        before that struck me as more remarkable for its disorder. In the first
                        place it was filled neck-deep with barrels and boxes in the utmost  confusion. Dark, greasy, provision-lined
                        alleys led off into dingy sections which the eye could not penetrate. Old
                        signs hung about, advertising things which had long since ceased to sell and
                        were forgotten by the public. There were pictures in once gilt but now
                        time-blackened frames, wherein queerly depicted children and pompous-looking
                        grocers offered one commodity and another, all now almost obliterated by
                        fly-specks. Shelves were marked on the walls by signs now nearly illegible.
                        Cobwebs hung thickly from corners and pillars. There were oil, lard, and a
                        dust-laden scum of some sort on three of the numerous scales with which he
                        occasionally weighed things and on many exteriors of once salable articles.
                        Pork, lard, molasses, and nails were packed in different corners of the
                        place in barrels. Lying about were household utensils, ship-rigging,
                        furniture and a hundred other things which had nothing to do with the
                        grocery business.
                    As I entered the store the first afternoon I noticed a Bible open at Judges
                        and a number of slips of paper on which questions had been written. On my
                        second visit for oil and vinegar, two strangers from off a vagrant yacht
                        which had entered the little harbor nudged one another and demanded to know
                        whether either had ever seen anything like it. On the third, my companion
                        protested that it was not clean, and seeing that there were other stores we
                        decided to buy our things elsewhere. This was not so easily accomplished.
                    "Where can I get a flatiron?" I inquired at the Postoffice
                        when I first entered the village.
                    "Most likely at Burridge's," was the reply.
                    "Do you know where I can get a pair of row-locks?" I asked
                        of a boy who was lounging about the town dock.
                    "At Burridge's," he replied.
                    When we wanted oars, pickles of a certain variety, golden syrup, and a dozen
                        other things which were essential at times, we were compelled to go to
                        Burridge's, so that at last he 
                        obtained a very fair portion of our trade despite the condition of his
                        store.
                    During all these earlier dealings there cropped up something curt and dry in
                        his conversation. One day we lost a fruit jar which he had loaned, and I
                        took one very much like it back in its place. When I began to apologize he
                        interrupted me with, "A jar's a jar, isn't
                        it?"
                    Another time, when I remarked in a conciliatory tone that he owed me eight
                        cents for a can of potted ham which had proved stale, he exclaimed,
                        "Well, I won't owe you long," and forthwith
                        pulled the money out of the loose jacket of his jumper and paid me.
                    I inquired one day if a certain thing were good. "If it
                        isn't," he replied, with a peculiar elevation of the
                        eyebrows, "your money is. You can have that back."
                    "That's the way you do business, is it?"
                    "Yes, sir," he replied, and his long upper lip thinned out
                        along the line of the lower one like a vise.
                    I was in search of a rocking-chair one day and was directed to
                        Burridge's as the only place likely to have any!
                    "Do you keep furniture?" I inquired.
                    "Some," he said.
                    "Have you a rocking-chair?"
                    "No, sir."
                    A day or two later I was in search of a table and on going to
                        Burridge's found that he had gone to a neighboring city.
                    "Have you got a table?" I inquired of the clerk.
                    "I don't know," he replied.
                        "There's some furniture in the back room, but I
                        don't know as I dare to sell any of it while he's
                        away."
                    "Why?"
                    "Well, he don't like me to sell any of it. He's
                        kind of queer that way I dunno what he intends to do with it. Gar!"
                        he added in a strangely electric way, "he's a queer  man! He's got a lot of things back
                        therechairs and tables and everything. He's got a lot more in a
                        loft up the street here. He never seems to want to sell any of 'em.
                        Heard him tell people he didn't have any."
                    I shook my head in puzzled desperation.
                    "Come on, let's go back and look anyway. There's
                        no harm in seeing if he has one."
                    We went back and there amid pork and molasses barrels old papers, boxes and
                        signs, was furniture in considerable quantitytables, rocking-chairs,
                        washstands, bureausall cornered and tumbled about.
                    "Why, here are rocking-chairs, lots of them," I exclaimed
                        "Just the kind I want! He said he didn't have
                        any."
                    "Gar! I dunno," replied the clerk.
                        "Here's a table, but I wouldn't dare sell it to
                        you."
                    "Why should he say he didn't have a
                        rocking-chair?"
                    "Gar! I dunno. He's goin' out of the furniture
                        business. He don't want to sell any. I don't know what he
                        intends to do with it."
                    "Well," I said in despair, "what about the table?
                        You can sell that, can't you?"
                    "I couldn'tnot till he comes back. I don't know
                        what he'd want to do about it."
                    "What's the price of it?"
                    "I dunno. He could tell you."
                    I went out of the thick-aired stuffy backroom with its unwashed windows, and
                        when I got opposite the Bible near the door I said:
                    "What's the matter with him anyhow? Why doesn't he
                        straighten things out here?"
                    Again the clerk awoke. "Huh!" he exclaimed.
                        "Straighten it out! Gar! I'd like to see anybody try
                        it."
                    "It could be," I said encouragingly.
                    "Gar!" he chuckled. "One man did try to straighten
                        it out  once when Mr. Burridge was away. Got
                        about a third of it cleaned up when he come back. Gar! You oughta seen him!
                        Gar!"
                    "What did he do?"
                    "What did he do! What didn't he do! Gar! Just took things
                        an threw them about again. Said he couldn't find
                        anything."
                    "You don't say!"
                    "Gar! I should say so! Man come in an' asked for a hammer.
                        Said he couldn't find any hammer, things was so mixed up. Did it
                        with screws, water-buckets an' everything just the same. Took
                        'em right off the shelves, where they was all in groups,
                        an' scattered 'em all over the room. Gar! 'Now I
                        guess I can find something when I want it,' he said." The
                        clerk paused to squint and add, "There ain't anybody tried
                        any straightenin' out around here since then, you bet.
                        Gar!"
                    "How long ago has that been?"
                    "About fourteen years now."
                    Surprised by this sharp variation from the ordinary standards of trade, I
                        began thinking of possible conditions which had produced it, when one
                        evening I happened in on the local barber. He was a lean, inquisitive
                        individual with a shock of sandy hair and a conspicuous desire to appear a
                        well-rounded social factor.
                    "What sort of person is this Burridge over here? He keeps such a
                        peculiar store."
                    "Elihu is a bit peculiar," he replied, his smile betraying
                        a desire to appear conservative. "The fault with Elihu, if he has
                        one, is that he's terribly strong on religion. Can't seem
                        to agree with anybody around here."
                    "What's the trouble?" I asked.
                    "It's more'n I could ever make out, what is the
                        matter with him. They're all a little bit cracked on the subject
                        around  here. Nothing but revivals and
                        meetin's, year in and year out. They're stronger on it
                        winters than they are in summer."
                    "How do you mean?"
                    "Well, they'll be more against yachtin' and Sunday
                        pleasures when they can't go than when they can."
                    "What about Elihu?" I asked.
                    "Well, he can't seem to get along, somehow. He used to
                        belong to the Baptist Church, but he got out o' that. Then he went
                        to a church up in Graylock, but he had a fallin' out up there. Then
                        he went to Northfield and Eustis. He's been all around, even over
                        on Long Island. He goes to church up at Amherst now, I believe."
                    "What seems to be the trouble?"
                    "Oh, he's just strong-headed, I guess." He paused,
                        and ideas lagged until finally I observed:
                    "It's a very interesting store he keeps."
                    "It's just as Billy Drumgold told him once:
                        'Burridge,' he says, 'you've got
                        everything in this store that belongs to a full-rigged ship 'cept
                        one thing.' 'What's that?' Burridge
                        asks. 'A second-hand pulpit.' 'Got that
                        too,' he answered, and takes him upstairs, and there he had one
                        sure enough."
                    "Well," I said, "what was he doing with
                        it?"
                    "Danged if I know. He had it all right. Has it yet, so they
                        say."
                    Days passed and as the summer waned the evidences of a peculiar life
                        accumulated. Noank, apparently, was at outs with Burridge on the subject of
                        religion, and he with it. There were instances of genuine hard feeling
                        against him.
                    Writing a letter in the Postoffice one day I ventured to take up this matter
                        with the postmaster.
                    "You know Mr. Burridge, don't youthe grocer?"
                    "Well, I should guess I did," he replied with a flare.
                    "Anything wrong with him?"
                    "Oh, about everything that's just plain cussedthe most  wrangling man alive. I never saw such a man.
                        He don't get his mail here no more because he's mad at me,
                        I guess. Took it away because I had Mr. Palmer's help in my fight,
                        I suppose. Wrote me that I should send all his mail up to Mystic, and he
                        goes there three or four miles out of his way every day, just to spite me.
                        It's against the law. I hadn't ought to be doing it,
                        re-addressing his envelopes three or four times a day, but I do do it.
                        He's a strong-headed man, that's the trouble with
                        Elihu."
                    I had no time to follow this up then, but a little later, sitting in the shop
                        of the principal sailboat maker, which was situated in the quiet little lane
                        which follows the line of the village, I was one day surprised by the sudden
                        warm feeling which the name of Elihu generated. Something had brought up the
                        subject of religion, and I said that Burridge seemed rather religious.
                    "Yes," said the sailboat maker quickly,
                        "he's religious, all right, only he reads the Bible for
                        others, not for himself."
                    "What do you mean by that?"
                    "Why, he wants to run things, that's what. As long as you
                        agree with Elihu, why, everything's all right. When you
                        don't, the Bible's against you. That's the way he
                        is."
                    "Did he ever disagree with you?" I asked, suspecting some
                        personal animus in the matter.
                    "Me and Elihu was always good friends as long as I agreed with
                        him," he went on bitterly. "We've been raised
                        together, man and boy, for pretty near sixty years. We never had a word of
                        any kind but what was friendly, as long as I agreed with him, but just as
                        soon as I didn't he took a set against me, and we ain't
                        never spoke a word since."
                    "What was the trouble?" I inquired sweetly, anxious to come
                        at the kernel of this queer situation.
                    "Well," he said, dropping his work and looking up to
                        impress me, "I'm a man that'll sometimes say what
                        I don't  believe; that is,
                        I'll agree with what I hadn't ought to, just to be
                        friendly like. I did that way a lot o' times with Elihu till one
                        day he came to me with something about particular salvation. I'm a
                        little more liberal myself. I believe in universal redemption by faith
                        alone. Well, Elihu came to me and began telling me what he believed. Finally
                        he asked me something about particular salvation and wanted to know whether
                        I didn't agree with him. I didn't, and told him so. From
                        that day on he took a set against me, and he ain't never spoke a
                        word to me since."
                    I was unaware that there was anything besides a religious disagreement in
                        this local situation until one day I happened to come into a second friendly
                        contact with the postmaster. We were speaking of the characteristics of
                        certain individuals, and I mentioned Burridge.
                    "He's all right when you take him the way he wants to be
                        taken. When you don't you'll find him quite a different
                        man."
                    "He seems to be straightforward and honest," I said.
                    "There ain't anything you can tell me about Elihu Burridge
                        that I don't know," he replied feelingly. "Not a
                        thing. I've lived with him, as you might say, all my life. Been
                        raised right here in town with him, and we went to school together. Man and
                        boy, there ain't ever been a thing that Elihu has agreed with,
                        without he could have the running of it. You can't tell me anything
                        about him that I don't know."
                    I could not help smiling at the warmth of feeling, although something about
                        the man's manner bespoke a touch of heartache, as if he were
                        privately grieving.
                    "What was the trouble between you two?" I asked.
                    "It's more'n I could ever find out," he
                        replied in a voice that was really mournful, so difficult and
                        non-understandable was the subject to him. "Before I started to
                        work for this office there wasn't a day that I didn't meet
                        and speak friendly  with Elihu. He used to
                        have a good many deeds and papers to sign, and he never failed to call me in
                        when I was passing. When I started to work for this office I noticed he took
                        on a cold manner toward me, and I tried to think of something I might have
                        done, but I couldn't. Finally I wrote and asked him if there was
                        anything between us if he wouldn't set a time and place
                        so's we might talk it over and come to an understanding."
                        He paused and then added, "I wish you could see the letter he wrote
                        me. Comin' from a Christian manfrom him to meI wish you could see
                        it."
                    "Why don't you show it to me?" I asked
                        inquisitively.
                    He went back into the office and returned with an ancient looking document,
                        four years old it proved to be, which he had been treasuring. He handed me
                        the thumbed and already yellowed page, and I read: 
                            
                                
                                    "MATTHEW HOLCOMB, ESQUIRE,
                                                "DEAR SIR:
                                    
                                    In reply to your letter asking me to set a time and place in
                                        which we might talk over the trouble between us, would say
                                        that the time be Eternity and the place where God shall call
                                        us to judgment.
                                    
                                        "Very truly, "ELIHU BURRIDGE."
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    His eyes rested on me while I read, and the moment I finished he began with:
                    "I never said one word against that man, not one word. I never did a
                        thing he could take offense at, not one thing. I don't know how a
                        man can justify himself writing like that."
                    "Perhaps it's political," I said. "You
                        don't belong to the same party, do you?".
                    "Yes, we do," he said. "Sometimes I've
                        thought that maybe it was because I had the support of the shipyard when I
                        first tried to get this office, but then that wasn't anything
                        between  him and me," and he looked
                        away as if the mystery were inexplicable.
                    This shipyard was conducted by a most forceful man but one as narrow and
                        religionistic as this region in which it had had had its rise. Old Mr.
                        Palmer, the aged founder of it, had long been a notable figure in the
                        streets and private chambers of the village. The principal grocery store,
                        coal-yard, sail-loft, hotel and other institutions were conducted in its
                        interests. His opinion was always foremost in the decision of the local
                        authorities. He was still, reticent, unobtrusive. Once I saw him most
                        considerately helping a cripple up the lane to the local Baptist Church.
                    "What's the trouble between Burridge and Palmer?"
                        I asked of the sail-maker finally, coming to think that here, if anywhere,
                        lay the solution of the difficulty.
                    "Two big fish in too small a basket," he responded
                        laconically.
                    "Can't agree, eh?"
                    "They both want to lead, or did," he said.
                        "Elihu's a beaten man, though, now." He paused
                        and then added, "I'm sorry for Elihu. He's a good
                        man at heart, one of the kindest men you ever saw, when you let him follow
                        his natural way. He's good to the poor, and he's carried
                        more slow-pay people than any man in this country, I do believe. He
                        won't collect an old debt by law. Don't believe in it. No,
                        sir. Just a kind-hearted man, but he loves to rule."
                    "How about Palmer?" I inquired.
                    "Just the same way exactly. He loves to rule, too. Got a good heart,
                        too, but he's got a lot more money than Elihu and so people pay
                        more attention to him, that's all. When Elihu was getting the
                        attention he was just the finest man you ever saw, kind, generous,
                        good-natured. People love to be petted, at least some people doyou know they
                        do. When you don't pet 'em they get kind o' sour
                        and crabbed like. Now that's  all
                        that's the matter with Elihu, every bit of it. He's sour,
                        now, and a little lonely, I expect. He's drove away every one from
                        him, or nearly all, 'cept his wife and some of his kin. Anybody can
                        do a good grocery business here, with the strangers off the
                        boats"the harbor was a lively one"all you have to do is
                        carry a good stock. That's why he gets along so well. But
                        he's drove nearly all the local folks away from him."
                    I listened to this comfortable sail-loft sage, and going back to the grocery
                        store one afternoon took another look at the long, grim-faced silent figure.
                        He was sitting in the shadow of one of his moldy corners, and if there had
                        ever been any light of merriment in his face it was not there now. He looked
                        as fixed and solemn as an ancient puritan, and yet there was something so
                        melancholy in the man's eye, so sad and disappointed, that it
                        seemed anything but hard. Two or three little children were playing about
                        the door and when he came forward to wait on me one of them sidled forward
                        and put her chubby hand in his.
                    "Your children?" I asked, by way of reaching some friendly
                        understanding.
                    "No," he replied, looking fondly down, "she
                        belongs to a French lady up the street here. She often comes down to see me,
                        don't you?" and he reached over and took the fat little
                        cheek between his thumb and forefinger.
                    The little one rubbed here face against his worn baggy trousers' leg
                        and put her arm about his knee. Quietly he stood there in a simple way until
                        she loosened here hold upon him, when he went about his labor.
                    I was sitting one day in the loft of the comfortable sailmaker, who, by the
                        way, was brother-in-law to Burridge, when I said to him:
                    "I wish you'd tell me the details about Elihu. How did he
                        come to be what he is? You ought to know; you've lived here all
                        your life."
                    
                    "So I do know," he replied genially. "What do you
                        want me to tell you?"
                    "The whole story of the trouble between him and Palmer; how he comes
                        to be at outs with all these people."
                    "Well," he began, and here followed with many interruptions
                        and side elucidations, which for want of space have been eliminated, the
                        following details:
                    Twenty-five years before Elihu had been the leading citizen of Noank. From
                        operating a small grocery at the close of the Civil War he branched out
                        until he sold everything from shiprigging to hardware. Noank was then in the
                        height of its career as a fishing town and as a port from which expeditions
                        of all sorts were wont to sail. Whaling was still in force, and vessels for
                        whaling expeditions were equipped here. Wealthy sea-captains frequently
                        loaded fine three-masted schooners here for various trading expeditions to
                        all parts of the world; the fishers for mackerel, cod and herring were
                        making three hundred and fifty dollars a day in season, and thousands of
                        dollars' worth of supplies were annually purchased here.
                    Burridge was then the only tradesman of any importance and, being of a
                        liberal, strong-minded and yet religious turn, attracted the majority of
                        this business to him. He had houses and lands, was a deacon in the local
                        Baptist Church and a counselor in matters political, social and religious,
                        whose advice was seldom rejected. Every Fourth of July during these years it
                        was his custom to collect all the children of the town in front of his store
                        and treat them to ice-cream. Every Christmas Eve he traveled about the
                        streets in a wagon, which carried half a dozen barrels of candy and nuts,
                        which he would ladle out to the merry shouting throng of pursuing
                        youngsters, until all were satisfied. For the skating season he prepared a
                        pond, spending several thousand dollars damming up a small stream, in order
                        that the children might have a place  to
                        skate. He created a library where all might obtain suitable reading,
                        particularly the young.
                    On New Year's morning it was his custom to visit all the poor and
                        bereaved and lonely in Noank, taking a great dray full of presents and
                        leaving a little something with his greetings and a pleasant handshake at
                        every door. The lonely rich as well as the lonely poor were included, for he
                        was certain, as he frequently declared, that the rich could be lonely too.
                    He once told his brother-in-law that one New Year's Day a voice
                        called to him in church: "Elihu Burridge, how about the lonely rich
                        and poor of Noank?" "Up I got," he concluded,
                        "and from that day to this I have never neglected them."
                    When any one died who had a little estate to be looked after for the benefit
                        of windows or orphans, Burridge was the one to take charge of it. People on
                        their deathbeds sent for him, and he always responded, taking energetic
                        charge of everything and refusing to take a penny for his services. After a
                        number of years the old judge to whom he always repaired with these matters
                        of probate, knowing his generosity in this respect, also refused to accept
                        any fee. When he saw him coming he would exclaim:
                    "Well, Elihu, what is it this time? Another widow or orphan that
                        we've got to look after?"
                    After Elihu had explained what it was, he would add:
                    "Well, Elihu, I do hope that some day some rich man will call you to
                        straighten out his affairs. I'd like to see you
                        get a little something, so that I might get a little
                        something. Eh, Elihu?" Then he would jocularly poke his companion
                        in charity in the ribs.
                    These general benefactions were continuous and coeval with his local
                        prosperity and dominance, and their modification as well as the
                        man's general decline the result of the rise of  this other individualRobert
                        Palmer,"operating" to take the color of power and
                        preeminence from him.
                    Palmer was the owner of a small shipyard here at the time, a thing which was
                        not much at first but which grew swiftly. He was born in Noank also, a few
                        years before Burridge, and as a builder of vessels had been slowly forging
                        his way to a moderate competence when Elihu was already successful. He was a
                        keen, fine-featured, energetic individual, with excellent commercial and
                        strong religious instincts, and by dint of hard labor and a saving
                        disposition he obtained, soon after the Civil War, a powerful foothold. Many
                        vessels were ordered here from other cities. Eventually he began to build
                        barges in large numbers for a great railroad company.
                    Early becoming a larger employer of labor than any one else in the vicinity
                        he soon began to branch out, possessed himself of the allied industries of
                        ship-rigging, chandlering, and finally established a grocery store for his
                        employees, and opened a hotel. Now the local citizens began to look upon him
                        as their leading citizen. They were always talking of his rise, frequently
                        in the presence of Burridge. He said nothing at first, pretending to believe
                        that his quondam leadership was unimpaired. Again, there were those who,
                        having followed the various branches of labor which Palmer eventually
                        consolidated, viewed this growth with sullen and angry eyes. They still
                        sided with Burridge, or pretended still to believe that he was the more
                        important citizen of the two. In the course of time, howevera period of
                        thirty years or moresome of them failed; others died; still others were
                        driven away for want of a livelihood. Only Burridge's position and
                        business remained, but in a sadly weakened state. He was no longer a man of
                        any great importance.
                    Not unnaturally, this question of local supremacy was first tested in the one
                        place in which local supremacy is usually testedthe church where they both
                        worshiped. Although  only one of five
                        trustees, Burridge had been the will of the body. Always, whatever he
                        thought, the others had almost immediately agreed to it. But now that Palmer
                        had become a power, many of those ardent in the church and beholden to him
                        for profit became his humble followers. They elected him trustee and did
                        what he wished, or what they thought he wished. To Burridge this made them
                        sycophants, slaves.
                    Now followed the kind of trivialities by which most human feuds are
                        furthered. The first test of strength came when a vagrant evangelist from
                        Alabama arrived and desired to use the church for a series of evening
                        lectures. The question had to be decided at once. Palmer was absent at the
                        time.
                    "Here is a request for the use of the church," said one of
                        the trustees, explaining its nature.
                    "Well," said Burridge, "you'd better let
                        him have it."
                    "Do you think we ought to do anything about it," the
                        trustee replied, "until Mr. Palmer returns?"
                    Although Burridge saw no reason for waiting, the other trustees did, and upon
                        that the board rested. Burridge was furious. By one fell stroke he was put
                        in second place, a man who had to await the return of Palmerand that in his
                        own church, so to speak.
                    "Why," he told some one, "the rest of us are
                        nothing. This man is a king."
                    From that time on differences of opinion within the church and elsewhere were
                        common. Although no personal animosity was ever admitted, local issues
                        almost invariably found these two men opposed to each other. There was the
                        question of whether the village should be made into a borough-a most trivial
                        matter; another, that of creating public works for the manufacture of gas
                        and distribution of water; a third, that of naming a State representative.
                        Naturally, while these things might be to the advantage of Palmer or not,
                        they were of no great import to Burridge, but yet he managed to see in them
                        an  attempt or attempts to saddle a large
                        public debt upon widows and orphans, those who could not afford or did not
                        need these things, and he proceeded to so express himself at various public
                        meetings. Slowly the breach widened. Burridge became little more than a
                        malcontent in many people's eyes. He was a
                        "knocker," a man who wanted to hold the community back.
                    Although defeated in many instances he won in others, and this did not help
                        matters any. At this point, among other things the decay of the fishing
                        industry helped to fix definitely the position of the two men as that of
                        victor and vanquished. Whaling died out, then mackerel and cod were caught
                        only at farther and farther distances from the town, and finally three- and
                        even two-masted schooners ceased entirely to buy their outfits here, and
                        Burridge was left dependent upon local patronage or smaller harbor trade for
                        his support. Coextensively, he had the dissatisfaction of seeing
                        Palmer's industries grow until eventually three hundred and fifty
                        men were upon his payrolls and even his foremen and superintendents were
                        considered influential townspeople. Palmer's son and two daughters
                        grew up and married, branched out and became owners of industries which had
                        formerly belonged to men who had traded with Burridge. He saw his grocery
                        trade dwindle and sink, while with age his religiosity grew, and he began to
                        be little more than a petty disputant, one constantly arguing as to whether
                        the interpretation of the Bible as handed down from the pulpit of what he
                        now considered his recalcitrant church was sound or not. When those who
                        years before had followed him obediently now pricked him with theological
                        pins and ventured to disagree with him, he was quick and sometimes foolish
                        in his replies. Thus, once a former friend and fellow-church-member who had
                        gone over to the opposition came into his store one morning and said:
                    "Elihu, for a man that's as strong on religion as you are,
                             I see you do one thing that
                        can't quite be justified by the Book."
                    "What's that?" inquired Burridge, looking up.
                    "I see you sell tobacco."
                    "I see you chew it," returned the host grimly.
                    "I know I do," returned his visitor, "but
                        I'll tell you what I'll do, Elihu. If you'll quit
                        selling, I'll quit chewing it," and he looked as if he had
                        set a fancy trap for his straw-balancing brother, as he held him to be.
                    "It's a bargain," said Burridge on the instant.
                        "It's a bargain!"
                    And from that day on tobacco was not offered for sale in that store, although
                        there was a large local demand for it.
                    Again, in the pride of his original leadership, he had accepted the conduct
                        of the local cemetery, a thing which was more a burden than a source of
                        profit. With his customary liberality in all things reflecting credit upon
                        himself he had spent his own money in improving it, much more than ever the
                        wardens of the church would have thought of returning to him. In one
                        instance, when a new receiving vault was desired, he had added seven hundred
                        dollars of his own to three hundred gathered by the church trustees for the
                        purpose, and the vault was immediately constructed. Frequently also, in his
                        pride of place, he had been given to asserting he was tired of conducting
                        the cemetery and wished he could resign.
                    In these later evil days, therefore, the trustees, following the star of the
                        newer power, saw fit to intimate that perhaps some one else would be glad to
                        look after it if he was tired of it. Instantly the fact that he could no
                        longer boast as formerly came home to him. He was not essential any longer
                        in anything. The church did not want him to have a hand in any of its
                        affairs! The thought of this so weighed on him that eventually he resigned
                        from this particular task, but thereafter also every man who had concurred
                        in accepting his  resignation was his bitter
                        enemy. He spoke acidly of the seven hundred he had spent, and jibed at the
                        decisions of the trustees in other matters. Soon he became a disturbing
                        element in the church, taking a solemn vow never to enter the graveyard
                        again, and not long after resigned all his other official dutiespassing the
                        plate, et ceteraalthough he still attended services there.
                    Decoration Day rolled around, the G. A. R. Post of which he was an ardent
                        member prepared for the annual memorial services over the graves of its dead
                        comrades. Early on the morning of the thirtieth of May they gathered before
                        their lodge hall, Burridge among them, and after arranging the details
                        marched conspicuously to the cemetery where the placing of the wreaths and
                        the firing of the salute were to take place. No one thought of Burridge
                        until the gate was reached, when, gun over shoulder and uniform in perfect
                        trim, he fell conspicuously out of line and marched away home alone. It was
                        the cemetery he had vowed not to enter, his old pet and protege.
                    Men now looked askance at him. He was becoming queer, no doubt of it, not
                        really sensibleor was he? Up in North-field, a nearby town, dwelt a colonel
                        of the Civil War who had led the very regiment of which Burridge was a
                        member but who during the war had come into serious difficulty through a
                        tangle of orders, and had been dishonorably discharged. Although wounded in
                        one of the engagements in which the regiment had distinguished itself, he
                        had been allowed to languish almost forgotten for years and finally, failing
                        to get a pension, had died in poverty. On his deathbed he had sent for
                        Burridge, and reminding him of the battle in which he had led him asked that
                        after he was gone, for the sake of his family, he would take up the matter
                        of a pension and if possible have his record purged of the stigma and the
                        pension awarded.
                    Burridge agreed most enthusiastically. Going to the local  congressman, he at once began a campaign, but
                        because of the feeling against him two years passed without anything being
                        done. Later he took up the matter in his own G. A. R. Post, but there also
                        failing to find the measure of his own enthusiasm, he went finally direct to
                        one of the senators of the State and laying the matter before him had the
                        records examined by Congress and the dead colonel honorably discharged.
                    One day thereafter in the local G. A. R. he commented unfavorably upon the
                        indifference which he deemed had been shown.
                    "There wouldn't have been half so much delay if the man
                        hadn't been a deserter," said one of his enemiesone who
                        was a foreman in Palmer's shipyard.
                    Instantly Burridge was upon his feet, his eyes aflame with feeling. Always an
                        orator, with a strangely declamatory style he launched into a detailed
                        account of the late colonel's life and services, his wounds, his
                        long sufferings and final death in poverty, winding up with a vivid word
                        picture of a battle (Antietam), in which the colonel had gallantly captured
                        a rebel flag and come by his injury.
                    When he was through there was great excitement in the Post and much feeling
                        in his favor, but he rather weakened the effect by at once demanding that
                        the traitorous words be withdrawn, and failing to compel this, preferred
                        charges against the man who had uttered them and attempted to have him
                        court-martialed.
                    So great was the bitterness engendered by this that the Post was now
                        practically divided, and being unable to compel what he considered justice
                        he finally resigned. Subsequently he took issue with his former
                        fellow-soldiers in various ways, commenting satirically on their church
                        regularity and professed Christianity, as opposed to their indifference to
                        the late colonel, and denouncing in various public conversations the
                        double-mindedness and sharp dealings of the "little gods,"
                        as he  termed those who ran the G. A. R. Post,
                        the church, and the shipyards.
                    Not long after his religious affairs reached a climax when the minister, once
                        a good friend of his, following the lead of the dominant star, Mr. Palmer,
                        publicly denounced him from the pulpit one Sunday as an enemy of the church
                        and of true Christianity!
                    "There is a man in this congregation," he exclaimed in a
                        burst of impassioned oratory, "who poses as a Christian and a
                        Baptist, who is in his heart's depth the church's worst
                        enemy. Hell and all its devils could have no worse feelings of evil against
                        the faith than he, and he doesn't sell tobacco, either!"
                    The last reference at once fixed the identity of the person, and caused
                        Burridge to get up and leave the church. He pondered over this for a time,
                        severed his connections with the body, and having visited Graylock one
                        Sunday drove there every Sabbath thereafter, each time going to a different
                        church. After enduring this for six months he generated a longing for a more
                        convenient meeting-place, and finally allied himself with the Baptist Church
                        of Eustis. Here his anchor might possibly have remained fast had it not been
                        that subtle broodings over his wrongs, a calm faith in the righteousness of
                        his own attitude, and disgust with those whom he saw calmly expatiating upon
                        the doctrines and dogmas of religion in his own town finally caused him to
                        suspect a universal misreading of the Bible. This doubt, together with his
                        own desire for justification according to the Word, finally put the idea in
                        his mind to make a study of the Bible himself. He would read it, he said. He
                        would study Hebrew and Greek, and refer all questionable readings of words
                        and passages back to the original tongue in which it had been written.
                    With this end in view he began a study of these languages, the importance of
                        the subject so growing upon him that he 
                        neglected his business. Day after day he labored, putting a Bible and a
                        Concordance upon a pile of soap-boxes near the door of his store and poring
                        over them between customers, the store meantime taking care of itself. He
                        finally mastered Greek and Hebrew after a fashion, and finding the word
                        "repent" frequently used, and that God had made man in the
                        image of Himself, with a full knowledge of right and wrong, he gravitated
                        toward the belief that therefore his traducers in Noank knew what they were
                        doing, and that before he needed to forgive themthough his love might cover
                        allthey must repent.
                    He read the Bible from beginning to end with this one feeling subconsciously
                        dominant, and all its loving commands about loving one another, forgiving
                        your brother seventy times seven, loving those that hate you, returning good
                        for evil, selling all that you have and giving it to the poor, were made to
                        wait upon the duty of others to repent. He began to give this interpretation
                        at Eustis, where he was allowed to have a Sunday-school, until the minister
                        came and told him once, "to his face," as the local report
                        ran: "We don't want you here."
                    Meekly he went forth and, joining a church across the Sound on Long Island,
                        sailed over every Sunday and there advanced the same views until he was
                        personally snubbed by the minister and attacked by the local papers. Leaving
                        there he went to Amherst, always announcing now that he held distinctive
                        views about some things in the Bible and asking the privilege of explaining.
                        In this congregation he was still comfortably at rest when I knew him.
                    "All sensitiveness," the sail-maker had concluded after his
                        long account. "There ain't anything the matter with Elihu,
                        except that he's piqued and grieved. He wanted to be the big man,
                        and he wasn't."
                    
                    I was thinking of this and of his tender relationship with children as I had
                        noticed it, and of his service to the late colonel when one day being in the
                        store, I said:
                    "Do you stand on the Bible completely, Mr. Burridge?"
                    "Yes, sir," he replied, "I do."
                    "Believe every word of it to be true?"
                    "Yes, sir."
                    "If your brother has offended you, how many times must you forgive
                        him?"
                    "Seventy times seven."
                    "Do you forgive your brothers?"
                    "Yes, sirif they repent."
                    "If they repent?"
                    "Yes, sir, if they repent. That's the interpretation. In
                        Matthew you will find, 'If he repent, forgive
                        him.'"
                    "But if you don't forgive them, even before they
                        repent," I said, "aren't you harboring
                        enmity?"
                    "No, sir, I'm not treasuring up enmity. I only refuse to
                        forgive them."
                    I looked at the man, a little astonished, but he looked so sincere and
                        earnest that I could not help smiling.
                    "How do you reconcile that with the command, 'Love one
                        another?' You surely can't love and refuse to forgive them
                        at the same time?"
                    "I don't refuse to forgive them," he repeated.
                        "If John there," indicating an old man in a sun-tanned
                        coat who happened to be passing through the store at the time,
                        "should do me a wrongI don't care what it was, how great
                        or how vileif he should come to me and say, 'Burridge, I'm
                        sorry,'" he executed a flashing oratorical move in
                        emphasis, and throwing back his head, exclaimed: "It's
                        gone! It's gone! There ain't any more of it! All
                        gone!"
                    I stood there quite dumbfounded by his virility, as the  air vibrated with his force and feeling. So manifestly was his
                        reading of the Bible colored by the grief of his own heart that it was
                        almost painful to tangle him with it. Goodness and mercy colored all his
                        ideas, except in relation to his one-time followers, those who had formerly
                        been his friends and now left him to himself.
                    "Do you still visit the poor and the afflicted, as you once
                        did?" I asked him once.
                    "I'd rather not say anything about that," he
                        replied sternly.
                    "But do you?"
                    "Yes, sir."
                    "Still make your annual New Year round?"
                    "Yes, sir."
                    "Well, you'll get your reward for that, whatever you
                        believe."
                    "I've had my reward," he said slowly.
                    "Had it?"
                    "Yes, sir, had it. Every hand that's been lifted to receive
                        the little I had to offer has been my reward."
                    He smiled, and then said in seemingly the most untimely way:
                    "I remember once going to a lonely woman here on New Year's
                        Day and taking her a little somethingbasket of grapes or fruit of some kind
                        it was. I was stopping a minutenever stay long, you know; just run in and
                        say 'Happy New Year!' leave what I have and get outand so
                        said, 'Good morning, Aunt Mary!"
                    "'Good morning, Elihu,' says she.
                    "'Can't stay long, Aunt Mary,' I said.
                        'Just want to leave you these. Happy New Year!'
                    "Well, sir, you know I was just turning around and starting when she
                        caught hold of my sleeve and says:
                    "'Elihu Burridge,' she says, 'give me
                        that hand!' and do  you know, before
                        I knew what she was about she took it up to her lips and kissed it! Yes, she
                        didkissed my hand!
                    "Now," he said, drawing himself up, with eyes bright with
                        intense feeling, "you know whether I've had my reward or
                        not, don't you?"
                
                
                
                    "VANITY, VANITY," SAITH THE PREACHER
                    SOMETIMES a single life will clearly and effectively
                        illustrate a period. Hence, to me, the importance of this one. I first met X
                        at a time when American financial methods and American finances were at
                        their apex of daring and splendor, and when the world was in a more or less
                        tolerant mood toward their grandiose manners and achievements. It was the
                        golden day of Mr. Morgan, Senior, Mr. Belmont, Mr. Harriman, Mr. Sage, Mr.
                        Gates, Mr. Brady, and many, many others who were still extant and ruling
                        distinctly and drastically, as was proved by the panic of 1907. In
                        opposition to them and yet imitating their methods, now an old story to
                        those who have read "Frenzied Finance," "Lawless
                        Wealth," and other such exposures of the methods which produced our
                        enormous American fortunes, were such younger men as Charles W. Morse (the
                        victim of the 1907 panic), F. Augustus Heinze (another if less conspicuous
                        victim of the same "panic"), E. R. Thomas, an ambitious
                        young millionaire, himself born to money, David A. Sullivan, and X. I refuse
                        to mention his name because he is still alive although no longer
                        conspicuous, and anxious perhaps to avoid the uncomfortable glare of
                        publicity when all the honors and comforts which made it endurable in the
                        first place are absent.
                    The person who made X essentially interesting to me long before I met him was
                        one Lucien de Shay, a ne'er-do-well pianist and voice culturist,
                        who was also a connoisseur in the matters of rugs, hangings, paintings and
                        furniture, things in which X was just then most intensely interested,
                        erecting  as he was, a great house on Long
                        Island and but newly blossoming into the world of art or fashion or culture
                        or showthose various things which the American multi-millionaire always
                        wants to blossom or bloom into and which he does not always succeed in
                        doing. De Shay was one of those odd natures so common to the metropolishalf
                        artist and half man of fashion who attach themselves so readily to men of
                        strength and wealth, often as advisors and counselors in all matters of
                        taste, social form and social progress. How this particular person was
                        rewarded I never quite knew, whether in cash or something else. He was also
                        a semi-confidant of mine, furnishing me "tips" and
                        material of one sort and another in connection with the various publications
                        I was then managing. As it turned out later, X was not exactly a
                        multi-millionaire as yet, merely a fledgling, although the possibilities
                        were there and his aims and ambitions were fast nearing a practical triumph
                        the end of which of course was to be, as in the case of nearly all American
                        multi-millionaires of the newer and quicker order, bohemian or exotic and
                        fleshly rather than cultural or aesthetic pleasure, although the latter were
                        never really exactly ignored.
                    But even so. He was a typical multi-millionaire in the showy and even gaudy
                        sense of the time. For if the staid and conservative and socially
                        well-placed rich have the great houses and the ease and the luxury of
                        paraphernalia, the bohemian rich of the X type have the flare, recklessness
                        and imagination which lend to their spendings and flutterings a sparkle and
                        a shine which the others can never hope to match.
                    Said this friend of mine to me one day: "Listen, I want you to meet
                        this man X. You will like him. He is fine. You haven't any idea
                        what a fascinating person he really is. He looks like a Russian Grand Duke.
                        He has the manners and the tastes of a Medici or a Borgia. He is building a
                        great house down on Long Island that once it is done will have cost  him five or six hundred thousand.
                        It's worth seeing already. His studio here in the C studio building
                        is a dream. It's thick with the loveliest kinds of things.
                        I've helped buy them myself. And he isn't dull. He wrote a
                        book at twenty, 'Icarus,' which is not bad either and
                        which he says is something like himself. He has read your book
                        ("Sister Carrie") and he sympathizes with that man
                        Hurstwood, Says parts of it remind him of his own struggles. That's
                        why he wants to meet you. He once worked on the newspapers too. God knows
                        how he is making his money, but I know how he is spending it. He's
                        decided to live, and he's doing it splendidly. It's
                        wonderful."
                    I took notice, although I had never even heard of the man. There were so
                        very, very many rich men in America. Later I heard much more concerning him
                        from this same de Shay. Once he had been so far down in the scale that he
                        had to shine shoes for a living. Once he had walked the streets of New York
                        in the snow, his shoes cracked and broken, no overcoat, not even a warm
                        suit. He had come here a penniless emigrant from Russia. Now he controlled
                        four banks, one trust company, an insurance company, a fire insurance
                        company, a great real estate venture somewhere, and what not. Naturally all
                        of this interested me greatly. When are we indifferent to a rise from
                        nothing to something?
                    At de Shay's invitation I journeyed up to X's studio one
                        Wednesday afternoon at four, my friend having telephoned me that if I could
                        I must come at once, that there was an especially interesting crowd already
                        assembled in the rooms, that I would meet a long list of celebrities. Two or
                        three opera singers of repute were already there, among them an Italian
                        singer and sorceress of great beauty, a veritable queen of the genus
                        adventuress, who was setting the town by the ears not only by her loveliness
                        but her voice. Her beauty was so remarkable that the Sunday papers were
                        giving full  pages to her face and torso
                        alone. There were to be several light opera and stage beauties there also, a
                        basso profundo to sing, writers, artists, poets.
                    I went. The place and the crowd literally enthralled me. It was so gay,
                        colorful, thrillful. The host and the guests were really interestingto me.
                        Not that it was so marvelous as a studio or that it was so gorgeously
                        decorated and furnishedit was impressive enough in that waybut that it was
                        so gracefully and interestingly representative of a kind of comfort
                        disguised as elegance. The man had everything, or nearly sofriends,
                        advisors, servants, followers. A somewhat savage and sybaritic nature, as I
                        saw at once, was here disporting itself in velvets and silks. The iron hand
                        of power, if it was power, was being most gracefully and agreeably disguised
                        as the more or less flaccid one of pleasure and friendship.
                    My host was not visible at first, but I met a score of people whom I knew by
                        reputation, and listened to clatter and chatter of the most approved
                        metropolitan bohemian character. The Italian sorceress was there, her
                        gorgeous chain earrings tinkling mellifluously as she nodded and
                        gesticulated. De Shay at once whispered in my ear that she was X's
                        very latest flame and an expensive one too. "You should see what he
                        buys her!" he exclaimed in a whisper. "God!"
                        Actresses and society women floated here and there in dreams of afternoon
                        dresses. The automobiles outside were making a perfect uproar. The poets and
                        writers fascinated me with their praises of the host's munificence
                        and taste. At a glance it was plain to me that he had managed to gather
                        about him the very element it would be most interesting to gather, supposing
                        one desired to be idle, carefree and socially and intellectually gay. If
                        America ever presented a smarter drawing-room I never saw it.
                    My friend de Shay, being the fidus Achates of the host,  had the power to reveal the inner mysteries of this place to
                        me, and on one or two occasions when there were not so many present and
                        while the others were chattering in the various roomsmusic-, dining-, ball-,
                        library and so forth I was being shown the kitchen, pantry, wine cellar, and
                        also various secret doors and passages whereby mine host by pressing a
                        flower on a wall or a spring behind a picture could cause a door to fly open
                        or close which gave entrance to or from a room or passage in no way
                        connected with the others save by another secret door and leading always to
                        a private exit. I wondered at once at the character of the person who could
                        need, desire or value this. A secret bedroom, for instance; a lounging-room!
                        In one of these was a rather severe if handsome desk and a steel safe and
                        two chairs no more; a very bare room. I wondered at this silent and rather
                        commercial sanctum in the center of this frou-frou of gayety, no trace of
                        the sound of which seemed to penetrate here. What I also gained was a sense
                        of an exotic, sybaritic and purely pagan mind, one which knew little of the
                        conventions of the world and cared less.
                    On my first visit, as I was leaving, I was introduced to the host just within
                        his picture gallery, hung with many fine examples of the Dutch and Spanish
                        schools. I found him to be as described: picturesque and handsome, even
                        though somewhat plump, phlegmatic and lethargicyet active enough. He was
                        above the average in height, well built, florid, with a huge, round handsome
                        head, curly black hair, keen black eyes, heavy overhanging eyebrows, full
                        red lips, a marked chin ornamented by a goatee. In any costume ball he would
                        have made an excellent Bacchus or Pan. He appeared to have the free, easy
                        and gracious manner of those who have known much of life and have achieved,
                        in part at least, their desires. He smiled, wished to know if I had met all
                        the guests, hoped that the sideboard had not escaped me, that I had enjoyed
                        the  singing. Would I come some evening when
                        there was no crowdor, better yet, dine with him and my friend de Shay, whose
                        personality appeared to be about as agreeable to him as his own. He was
                        sorry he could not give me more attention now.
                    Interestingly enough, and from the first, I was impressed with this man; not
                        because of his wealth (I knew richer men) but because of a something about
                        him which suggested dreams, romance, a kind of sense or love of splendor and
                        grandeur which one does not often encounter among the really wealthy. Those
                        cracked shoes were in my mind, I suppose. He seemed to live among great
                        things, but in no niggardly, parsimonious or care-taking way. Here was ease,
                        largess, a kind of lavishness which was not ostentation but which seemed
                        rather to say, "What are the minute expenses of living and
                        pleasuring as contrasted with the profits of skill in the world
                        outside?" He suggested the huge and Aladdin-like adventures with
                        which so many of the great financiers of the day, the true tigers of Wall
                        Street, were connected.
                    It was not long thereafter that I was once more invited, this time to a much
                        more lavish affair and something much more sybaritic in its tone, although I
                        was really not conscious of what it was to be like when I went there. It
                        began at twelve midnight, and to this day it glitters in my mind as among
                        the few really barbaric and exotic things that I have ever witnessed. Not
                        that the trappings or hangings or setting were so outre or amazing as that
                        the atmosphere of the thing itself was relaxed, bubbling, pagan. There were
                        so many daring and seeking people there. The thing sang and was talked of
                        for months afterin whispers! The gayety! The abandon! The sheer
                        intoxication, mental and physical! I never saw more daring costumes, so many
                        really beautiful women (glitteringly so) in one place at one time, wonderful
                        specimens of exotic and in the main fleshy or sensuous feminity.
                    
                    There was, among other things, as I recall, a large nickeled ice-tray on
                        wheels packed with unopened bottles of champagne, and you had but to lift a
                        hand or wink an eye to have another opened for you alone, ever over and
                        over. And the tray was always full. One wall of the dining-room farther on
                        was laden with delicate novelties in the way of food. A string quartette
                        played for the dancers in the music-room. There were a dozen corners in
                        different rooms screened with banks of flowers and concealing divans. The
                        dancing and singing were superb, individual, often abandoned in character,
                        as was the conversation. As the morning wore on (for it did not begin until
                        after midnight) the moods of all were either so mellowed or inflamed as to
                        make intentions, hopes, dreams, the most secret and syhoritic, the order of
                        expression. One was permitted to see human nature stripped of much of its
                        repression and daylight reserve or cant. At about four in the morning came
                        the engaged dancers, quite the pice de rsistancewith wreaths about heads,
                        waists and arms for clothing and well, really nothing more beyond their
                        beautiful figuresscattering rose leaves or favors. These dancers the company
                        itself finally joined, single file at first, pellmell afterwardsartists,
                        writers, poetsdancing from room to room in crude Bacchic imitation of their
                        leadersthe women toountil all were singing, parading, swaying and dancing in
                        and out of the dozen rooms. And finally, liquor and food affecting them, I
                        suppose, many fell flat, unable to do anything thereafter but lie upon
                        divans or in corners until friends assisted them eleswhereto taxis finally.
                        But mine host, as I recall him, was always present, serene, sober, smiling,
                        unaffected, bland and gracious and untiring in his attention. He was there
                        to keep order where otherwise there would have been none.
                    I mention this merely to indicate the character of a long series of such
                        events which covered the years 19 to 19.
                    
                    During that time, for the reason that I have first given (his curious
                        pleasure in my company), I was part and parcel of a dozen such more or less
                        vivid affairs and pleasurings, which stamped on my mind not only X but life
                        itself, the possibilities and resources of luxury where taste and appetite
                        are involved, the dreams of grandeur and happiness which float in some
                        men's minds and which work out to a wild fruitiondreams so outre
                        and so splendid that only the tyrant of an obedient empire, with all the
                        resources of an enslaved and obedient people, could indulge with safety.
                        Thus once, I remember, that a dozen of uswriters and artistsbeing assembled
                        in his studio in New York one Friday afternoon for the mere purpose of
                        idling and drinking, he seeming to have nothing better to do for the time
                        being, he suddenly suggested, and as though it had but now occurred to him,
                        that we all adjourn to his country house on Long Island, which was not yet
                        quite finished (or, rather, furnished), but which was in a sufficient state
                        of completion to permit of appropriate entertainment providing the
                        necessaries were carried out there with us.
                    As I came to think of this afterward, I decided that after all it was not
                        perhaps so unpremeditated as it seemed and that unconsciously we served a
                        very useful purpose. There was work to do, suggestions to be obtained, an
                        overseer, decorator and landscape gardener with whom consultations were
                        absolutely necessary; and nothing that X ever did was without its element of
                        calculation. Why not make a gala affair of a rather dreary November task
                    Hence
                    At any rate the majority of us forthwith agreed, since plainly it meant an
                        outing of the most lavish and pleasing nature. At once four automobiles were
                        pressed into service, three from his own garage and one specially engaged
                        elsewhere. There was some telephoning in re culinary
                        supplies  to a chef in charge of the famous
                        restaurant below who was en rapport with our host, and
                        soon some baskets of food were produced and subsequently the four cars made
                        their appearance at the entryway below. At dusk of a gray, cold, smoky day
                        we were all bundled into thesepoets, playwrights, novelists, editors (he
                        professed a great contempt for actors), and forthwith we were off, to do
                        forty-five miles between five-thirty and seven p. m.
                    I often think of that ride, the atmosphere of it, and what it told of our
                        host's point of view. He was always so grave, serene, watchful yet
                        pleasant and decidedly agreeable, gay even, without seeming so to be. There
                        was something so amazingly warm and exotic about him and his, and yet at the
                        same time something so cold and calculated, as if after all he were saying
                        to himself, "I am the master of all this, am stage-managing it for
                        my own pleasure." I felt that he looked upon us all not so much as
                        intimates or friends as rather fine birds or specimens of one kind and
                        another, well qualified to help him with art and social ideas if nothing
                        morehence his interest in us. Also, in his estimation no doubt, we reflected
                        some slight color or light into his life, which he craved. We had done
                        things too. Nevertheless, in his own estimation, he was the master, the Can
                        Grande. He could at will "take us up or leave us out," or
                        so he thought. We were mere toys, fine feathers, cap-and-bell artists. It
                        was nice to "take us around," have us with him. Smothered
                        in a great richly braided fur coat and fur cap, he looked as much the Grand
                        Duke as one might wish.
                    But I liked him, truly. And what a delicious evening and holiday all told he
                        made of it for us. By leaving a trail of frightened horses, men and women,
                        and tearing through the gloom as though streets were his private race-trackI
                        myself as much frightened as any at the roaring speed of the cars and the
                        possibilities of the roadwe arrived at seven, and  by eight were seated to a course dinner of the most gratifying
                        character. There was no heat in the house as yet, but from somewhere great
                        logs had been obtained and now blazed in the large fireplaces. There was no
                        electricity as yeta private plant was being installedbut candles and lamps
                        blazed in lovely groups, casting a soft glow over the great rooms. One room
                        lacked a door, but an immense rug took its place. There were rugs, hangings
                        and paintings in profusion, many of them as yet unhung. Some of the most
                        interesting importations of furniture and statuary were still in the cases
                        in which they had arrived, with marks of ships and the names of foreign
                        cities upon the cases. Scattered about the great living-room, dining-room,
                        music-room and library were enough rugs, divans and chairs as well as
                        musical instrumentsa piano among othersto give the place an air of
                        completeness and luxury. The walls and ceilings had already been decoratedin
                        a most florid manner, I must say. Outside were great balconies and verandahs
                        commanding, as the following morning proved, a very splendid view of a very
                        bleak sea. The sand dunes! The distant floor of the sea! The ships! Upstairs
                        were nine suites of one- and two-rooms and bath. The basement was an
                        intricate world of kitchen, pantry, engine-room, furnace, wine cellars and
                        what not. Outside was a tawny waste of sand held together in places in the
                        form of hummocks and even concealing hills by sand-binding grasses.
                    That night, because it was windy and dull and bleak, we stayed inside, I for
                        one going outside only long enough to discover that there were great wide
                        verandahs of concrete about the house, fit for great entertainments in
                        themselves, and near at hand hummocks of sand. Inside all was warm and
                        flaring enough. The wine cellar seemed to contain all that one might
                        reasonably desire. Our host once out here was most gay in his mood. He was
                        most pleasantly interested  in the progress of
                        his new home, although not intensely so. He seemed to have lived a great
                        deal and to be making the best of everything as though it were something to
                        go through with. With much talking on the part of us all, the evening passed
                        swiftly enough. Some of the men could play and sing. One poet recited
                        enchanting bits of verse. For our inspection certain pieces of furniture and
                        statuary were unpacked and displayeda bronze faun some three feet in height,
                        for one thing. All the time I was sensible of being in contact with some one
                        who was really in touch with life in a very large way, financially and
                        otherwise. His mind seemed to be busy with all sorts of things. There were
                        two Syrians in Paris, he said, who owned a large collection of rugs suitable
                        for an exhibition. He had an agent who was trying to secure the best of them
                        for his new home. De Shay had recently introduced him to a certain Italian
                        count who had a great house in Italy but could not afford its upkeep. He was
                        going to take over a portion of its furnishings, after due verification, of
                        course. Did I know the paintings of Monticelli and Mancini? He had just
                        secured excellent examples of both. Some time when his new home was further
                        along I must come out. Then the pictures would be hung, the statuary and
                        furniture in place. He would get up a weekend party for a select group.
                    The talk drifted to music and the stage. At once I saw that because of his
                        taste, wealth and skill, women formed a large and yet rather toy-like
                        portion of his life, holding about as much relation to his inner life as do
                        the concubines of an Asiatic sultan. Madame of the earrings, as I learned
                        from de Shay, was a source of great expense to him, but at that she was
                        elusive, not easily to be come at. The stage and Broadway were full of many
                        beauties in various walks of life, many of whom he knew or to whom he could
                        obtain access. Did I know thus and sosuch-and-such an one?
                    
                    "I'll tell you," he said after a time and when the
                        wine glasses had been refilled a number of times, "we must give a
                        party out here some time, something extraordinary, a real one. De Shay and
                        Bielow" (naming another artist) "and myself must think it
                        out. I know three different dancers" and he began to enumerate
                        their qualities. I saw plainly that even though women played a minor part in
                        his life, they were the fringe and embroidery to his success and power. At
                        one a. m. we went to our rooms, having touched upon most of the themes dear
                        to metropolitan lovers of life and art.
                    The next morning was wonderfulglittering, if windy. The sea sparkled beyond
                        the waste of sand. I noted anew the richness of the furnishings, the
                        greatness of the house. Set down in so much sand and facing the great sea,
                        it was wonderful. There was no order for breakfast; we came down as we
                        chose. A samovar and a coffee urn were a light on the table. Rolls, chops,
                        anything, were brought on order. Possibly because I was one of the first
                        about, my host singled me outhe was up and dressed when I came downand we
                        strolled over the estate to see what we should see.
                    Curiously, although I had seen many country homes of pretension and even
                        luxury, I never saw one that appealed to me more on the ground of promise
                        and, after a fashion, of partial fulfillment. It was so unpretentiously
                        pretentious, so really grand in a limited and yet poetic way. Exteriorly its
                        placement, on a rise of ground commanding that vast sweep of sea and sand,
                        its verandahs, so very widegreat smooth floors of red concretebordered with
                        stone boxes for flowers and handsomely designed stone benches, its long
                        walks and drives but newly begun, its stretch of beach, say a half mile away
                        and possibly a mile and a half long, to be left, as he remarked,
                        "au naturel," driftwood, stones and all, struck me most
                        favorably. Only one long pier for visiting yachts was  to be built, and a certain stretch of beach, not over three
                        hundred feet, cleared for bath houses and a smooth beach. On one spot of
                        land, a high hummock reaching out into the sea, had already been erected a
                        small vantage tower, open at the bottom for shade and rest, benches turning
                        in a circle upon a concrete floor, above it a top looking more like a small
                        bleak lighthouse than anything else. In this upper portion was a room
                        reached by small spiral concrete stairs!
                    I could not help noting the reserve and savoir faire with
                        which my host took all this. He was so healthy, assured, interested and, I
                        am glad to say, not exactly self-satisfied; at least he did not impress me
                        in that waya most irritating condition. Plainly he was building a very
                        splendid thing. His life was nearing its apex. He must not only have had
                        millions but great taste to have undertaken, let alone accomplished, as much
                        as was already visible here. Pointing to a bleak waste of sand between the
                        house and the seaand it looked like a huge red and yellow bird perched upon
                        a waste of sandhe observed, "When you come again in the spring that
                        will contain a garden of 40,000 roses. The wind is nearly always off the sea
                        here. I want the perfume to blow over the verandahs. I can rotate the roses
                        so that a big percentage of them will always be in bloom."
                    We visited the stables, the garage, an artesian well newly driven, a drive
                        that was to skirt the sea, a sunken garden some distance from the house and
                        away from the sea.
                    Next spring I came once moreseveral times, in fact. The rose garden was then
                        in bloom, the drives finished, the pictures hung. Although this was not a
                        world in which society as yet deigned to move it was entirely conceivable
                        that at a later period it might, and betimes it was crowded with people
                        smart enough and more agreeable in the main than the hardy, strident members
                        of the so-called really inner circles. There were artsts, writers,
                        playwrights, singers, actresses,  and some
                        nondescript figures of the ultra-social worldyoung men principally who
                        seemed to come here in connection with beautiful young women, models and
                        other girls whose beauty was their only recommendation to consideration.
                    The scene was not without brilliance. A butler and numerous flunkeys
                        fluttered to and fro. Guests were received at the door by a footman. A
                        housekeeper and various severe-looking maids governed in the matter of
                        cleaning. One could play golf, tennis, bridge, motor, fish, swim, drink in a
                        free and even disconcerting manner or read quietly in one angle or another
                        of the grounds. There were affairs, much flirting and giggling, suspicious
                        wanderings to and fro at nightno questions asked as to who came or whether
                        one was married, so long as a reasonable amount of decorum was maintained.
                        It was the same on other occasions, only the house and grounds were full to
                        overflowing with guests and passing friends, whose machines barked in the
                        drives. I saw as many gay and fascinating costumes and heard as much clever
                        and at times informative talk here as anywhere I have been.
                    During this fall and winter I was engaged in work which kept me very much to
                        myself. During the period I read much of X, banks he was combining, new
                        ventures he was undertaking. Yet all at once one winter's day, and
                        out of a clear sky, the papers were full of an enormous financial crash of
                        which he was the center. According to the newspapers, the first and foremost
                        of a chain of banks of which he was the head, to say nothing of a bonding
                        and realty company and some street railway project on Long Island, were all
                        involved in the crash. Curiously, although no derogatory mention had
                        previously been made of him, the articles and editorials were now most
                        vituperative. Their venom was especially noticeable. He was a get-rich-quick
                        villain of the vilest stripe; he had been juggling a bank, a trust company,
                        an insurance company and a land and street railway speculative scheme as one
                        would  glass balls. The money wherewith he
                        gambled was not his. He had robbed the poor, deceived them. Yet among all
                        this and in the huge articles which appeared the very first day, I noted one
                        paragraph which stuck in my mind, for I was naturally interested in all this
                        and in him. It read:
                    "Wall Street heard yesterday that Superintendent Hgot his first
                        information concerning the state in which X's affairs were from
                        quarters where resentment may have been cherished because of his activity in
                        the Long Island Traction field. This is one of the Street's
                        'clover patches' and the success which the newcomer seemed
                        to be meeting did not provoke great pleasure."
                    Another item read:
                    "A hitch in a deal that was to have transferred the South Shore to
                        the New York and Queens County System, owned by the Long Island Railroad, at
                        a profit of almost $2,000,000 to X, was the cause of all the trouble. Very
                        active displeasure on the part of certain powers in Wall Street blocked, it
                        is said, the closing of the deal for the railroad. They did not want him in
                        this field, and were powerful enough to prevent it. At the same time
                        pressure from other directions was brought to bear on him. The
                        clearing-house refused to clear for his banks. X was in need of cash, but
                        still insisting on a high rate of remuneration for the road which he had
                        developed to an important point. Their sinister influences entered and
                        blocked the transfer until it was no longer possible for him to hold
                        out."
                    Along with these two items was a vast mass of data, really pages, showing
                        how, when, where he had done thus and so, "juggled
                        accounts" between one bank and another, all of which he controlled
                        however and most of which he owned,  drew out
                        large sums and put in their place mortgages on or securities in, new
                        companies which he was organizingtricks which were the ordinary routine of
                        Wall Street and hence rather ridiculous as the sub-stone of so vast a hue
                        and cry.
                    I was puzzled and, more than that, moved by the drama of the man's
                        sudden end, for I understood a little of finance and its ways, also of what
                        place and power had plainly come to mean to him. It must be dreadful. Yet
                        how could it be, I asked myself, if he really owned fifty-one per cent or
                        more in so many companies that he could be such a dark villain? After all,
                        ownership is ownership, and control, control. On the face of the reports
                        themselves his schemes did not look so black. I read everything in
                        connection with him with care.
                    As the days passed various other things happened. For one thing, he tried to
                        commit suicide by jumping out of a window of his studio in New York; for
                        another, he tried to take poison. Now of a sudden a bachelor sister, of whom
                        I had never heard in all the time I had known him, put in an appearance as
                        his nearest of kina woman whose name was not his own but a variation of it,
                        an "-ovitch" having suddenly been tacked onto it. She took
                        him to a sanitarium, from which he was eventually turned out as a criminal,
                        then to a hospital, until finally he surrendered himself to the police. The
                        names of great lawyers and other bankers began to enter the case. Alienists
                        of repute, those fine chameleons of the legal world, were employed who swore
                        first that he was insane, then that he was not. His sister, who was a
                        physician and scientist of repute, asked the transfer of all his property to
                        her on the ground that he was incompetent and that she was his next of kin.
                        To this she swore, giving as her reasons for believing him insane that he
                        had "illusions of grandeur" and that he believed himself
                        "persecuted by eminent financiers," things which smacked
                        more of sanity than anything else to  me. At
                        the same time he and she, as time rather indicated, had arranged this in
                        part in the hope of saving something out of the great wreck. There were
                        other curious features: Certain eminent men in politics and finance who from
                        revelations made by the books of the various banks were in close financial
                        if not personal relations with X denied this completely. Curiously, the
                        great cry on the part of these was that he was insane, must be, and that he
                        was all alone in his schemes. His life on Broadway, on Long Island, in his
                        studio in New York, were ransacked for details. Enough could not be made of
                        his gay, shameful, spendthrift life. No one else, of course, had ever been
                        either gay or shameful beforeespecially not the eminent and hounding
                        financiers.
                    Then from somewhere appeared a new element. In a staggeringly low tenement
                        region in Brooklyn was discovered somehow or other a very old man and woman,
                        most unsatisfactory as relatives of such imposing people, who insisted that
                        they were his parents, that years before because he and his sister were
                        exceedingly restless and ambitious, they had left them and had only returned
                        occasionally to borrow money, finally ceasing to come at all. In proof of
                        this, letters, witnesses, old photos, were produced. It really did appear as
                        if he and his sister, although they had long vigorously denied it, really
                        were the son and daughter of the two who had been petty bakers in Brooklyn,
                        laying up a little competence of their own. I never knew who
                        "dug" them up, but the reason why was plain enough. The
                        sister was laying claim to the property as the next of kin. If this could be
                        offset, even though X were insane, the property would at once be thrown into
                        the hands of the various creditors and sold under a forced sale, of coursein
                        other words, for a songfor their benefit. Naturally it was of interest to
                        those who wished to have his affairs wound up to have the old people
                        produced. But the great financier had been spreading the report all  along that he was from Russia, that his
                        parents, or pseudoparents, were still there, but that really he was the
                        illegitimate son of the Czar of Russia, boarded out originally with a poor
                        family. Now, however, the old people were brought from Brooklyn and
                        compelled to confront him. It was never really proved that he and his sister
                        had neglected them utterly or had done anything to seriously injure them,
                        but rather that as they had grown in place and station they had become more
                        or less estranged and so ignored them, having changed their names and soared
                        in a world little dreamed of by their parents. Also a perjury charge was
                        made against the sister which effectually prevented her from controlling his
                        estate, a lease long enough to give the financiers time for their work.
                        Naturally there was a great hue and cry over her, the scandal, the shame,
                        that they should thus publicly refuse to recognize their parents as they did
                        or had when confronted by them. Horrible! There were most heavily
                        illustrated and tearful Sunday articles, all blazoned forth with pictures of
                        his house and studio, his banks, cars, yacht, groups of guests, while the
                        motives of those who produced the parents were overlooked. The pictures of
                        the parents confronting X and his sister portrayed very old and feeble
                        people, and were rather moving. They insisted that they were his parents and
                        wept brokenly in their hands. But why? And he denying it! His sister, who
                        resented all this bitterly and who stood by him valiantly, repudiated, for
                        his sake of course, his and her so-called parents and friends.
                    I never saw such a running to cover of "friends" in all my
                        life. Of all those I had seen about his place and in his company, scores on
                        scores of people reasonably well known in the arts, the stage, the worlds of
                        finance and music, all eating his dinners, riding in his cars, drinking his
                        wines, there was scarcely any one now who knew him anything more than
                        "casually" or "slightly"oh, so slightly!
                        When rumors as  to the midnight suppers, the
                        Bacchic dancing, the automobile parties to his great country place and the
                        spirited frolics which occurred there began to get abroad, there was no one
                        whom I knew who had ever been there or knew anything about him or them. For
                        instance, of all the people who had been close or closest and might
                        therefore have been expected to be friendly and deeply concerned was de
                        Shay, his fidus Achates and literally his pensioneryet de Shay was almost
                        the loudest in his denunciation or at least deprecation of X, his habits and
                        methods! Although it was he who had told me of Mme. and her relation to X,
                        who urged me to come here, there and the other place, especially where X was
                        the host, always assuring me that it would be so wonderful and that X was
                        really such a great man, so generous, so worth-while, he was now really the
                        loudest or at least the most stand-offish in his comments, pretending never
                        to have been very close to X, and lifting his eyebrows in astonishment as
                        though he had not even guessed what he had actually engineered. His
                        "Did-you-hears," "Did-you-knows" and
                        "Wouldn't-have-dreamed" would have done credit to
                        a tea-party. He was so shocked, especially at X's robbing poor
                        children and orphans, although in so far as my reading of the papers went I
                        could find nothing that went to prove that he had any intention of robbing
                        anybodythat is, directly. In the usual Wall Street high finance style he was
                        robbing Peter to pay Paul, that is, he was using the monies of one
                        corporation which he controlled to bolster up any of the others which he
                        controlled, and was "washing one hand with the other," a
                        proceeding so common in finance that to really radically and truly oppose
                        it, or do away with it, would mean to bring down the whole fabric of finance
                        in one grand crash.
                    Be that as it may. In swift succession there now followed the so-called
                        "legal" seizure and confiscation of all his proper  ties. In the first place, by alienists
                        representing the District Attorney and the State banking department, he was
                        declared sane and placed on trial for embezzlement. Secondly, his
                        sister's plea that his property be put into her hands as trustee or
                        administrator was thrown out of court and she herself arrested and confined
                        for perjury on the ground that she had perjured herself in swearing that she
                        was his next of kin when in reality his real parents, or so they swore, were
                        alive and in America. Next, his banks, trust companies and various concerns,
                        including his great country estate, were swiftly thrown into the hands of
                        receivers (what an appropriate name!) and wound up "for the benefit
                        of creditors." All the while X was in prison, protesting that he
                        was really not guilty, that he was solvent, or had been until he was
                        attacked by the State bank examiner or the department back of him, and that
                        he was the victim of a cold-blooded conspiracy which was using the State
                        banking department and other means to drive him out of financial life, and
                        that solely because of his desire to grow and because by chance he had been
                        impinging upon one of the choicest and most closely guarded fields of the
                        ultra-rich of Wall Streetthe street railway area in New York and Brooklyn.
                    One day, so he publicly swore to the grand jury, by which he was being
                        examined, as he was sitting in his great offices, in one of the great
                        sky-scrapers of New York, which occupied an entire floor and commanded vast
                        panoramas in every direction (another evidence of the man's insane
                        "delusion of grandeur," I presume), he was called to
                        answer the telephone. One Mr. Y, so his assistant said, one of the eminent
                        financiers of Wall Street and America, was on the wire. Without any
                        preliminary and merely asking was this Mr. X on the wire, the latter
                        proceeded, "This is Mr. Y. Listen closely to what I am going to
                        say. I want you to get out of the street railway business in New York or
                        something is going  to happen to you. I am
                        giving you a reasonable warning. Take it." Then the phone clicked
                        most savagely and ominously and superiorly at the other end.
                    "I knew at the time," went on X, addressing the grand jury,
                        "that I was really listening to the man who was most powerful in
                        such affairs in New York and elsewhere and that he meant what he said. At
                        the same time I was in no position to get out without closing up the one
                        deal which stood to net me two million dollars clear if I closed it. At the
                        same time I wanted to enter this field and didn't see why I
                        shouldn't. If I didn't it spelled not ruin by any means
                        but a considerable loss, a very great loss, to me, in more ways than one.
                        Oddly enough, just at this time I was being pressed by those with whom I was
                        associated to wind up this particular venture and turn my attention to other
                        things. I have often wondered, in the light of their subsequent actions, why
                        they should have become so pressing just at this time. At the same time,
                        perhaps I was a little vain and self-sufficient. I had once got the better
                        of some agents of another great financier in a Western Power deal, and I
                        felt that I could put this thing through too. Hence I refused to heed the
                        warning. However, I found that all those who were previously interested to
                        buy or at least develop the property were now suddenly grown cold, and a
                        little later when, having entered on several other matters, I needed
                        considerable cash, the State banking department descended on me and, crying
                        fraud and insolvency, closed all my banks.
                    "You know how it is when they do this to you. Cry
                        'Fire!' and you can nearly wreck a perfectly good theater
                        building. Depositors withdraw, securities tumble, investigation and legal
                        expenses begin, your financial associates get frightened or ashamed and
                        desert you. Nothing is so squeamish or so retiring and nervous as money.
                        Time will show that I was not insolvent at the time. The books will show a
                        few technically  illegal things, but so would
                        the books or the affairs of any great bank, especially at this time, if
                        quickly examined. I was doing no more than all were doing, but they wanted
                        to get me outand they did."
                    Regardless of proceedings of various kindslegal, technical and the likeX was
                        finally sent to the penitentiary, and spent some time there. At the same
                        time his confession finally wrecked about nine other eminent men, financiers
                        all. A dispassionate examination of all the evidence eight years later
                        caused me to conclude without hesitation that the man had been a victim of a
                        cold-blooded conspiracy, the object of which was to oust him from
                        opportunities and to forestall him in methods which would certainly have led
                        to enormous wealth. He was apparently in a position and with the brains to
                        do many of the things which the ablest and coldest financiers of his day had
                        been and were doing, and they did not want to be bothered with, would not
                        brook, in short, his approaching rivalry. Like the various usurpers of regal
                        powers in ancient days, they thought it best to kill a possible claimant to
                        the throne in his infancy.
                    But that youth of his! The long and devious path by which he had come! Among
                        the papers relating to the case and to a time when he could not have been
                        more than eighteen, and when he was beginning his career as a book agent,
                        was a letter written to his mother (August, 1892), which read: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        "MY DEAR PARENTS:
                                    
                                    Please answer me at once if I can have anything of you, or
                                        something of you or nothing. Remember this is the first and
                                        the last time in my life that I beg of you anything. You
                                        have given to the other child not $15 but hundreds, and now
                                        when I, the very youngest, ask of you, my parents, $15, are
                                        you going to be so hardhearted as to refuse me? Without
                                        these $15 it is left to me to be without income for two or
                                        three weeks.
                                    
                                    "For God's sake, remember what I ask of
                                        you, and send me at once so that I should cease thinking of
                                        it. Leon, as I have told you, will give me $10, $15 he has
                                        already paid for the contract, and your $15 will make $25.
                                        Out of this I need $10 for a ticket and $15 for two or three
                                        weeks' board and lodging.
                                    "Please answer at once. Don't wait for a
                                        minute, and send me the money or write me one word
                                        'not.' Remember this only that if you
                                        refuse me I will have nothing in common with you.
                                    
                                        "Your son,
                                        ""
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    There was another bit of testimony on the part of one Henry Dom, a baker, who
                        for some strange reason came forward to identify him as some one he had
                        known years before in Williamsburgh, which read:
                    "I easily recognize them" (Xand his sister) "from
                        their pictures in the newspapers. I worked for X's father, who was
                        a baker in Williamsburgh, and frequently addressed letters that were written
                        by X Senior and his wife to Dr. Louise X who was then studying medicine in
                        Philadelphia. X was then a boy going to school, but working in his
                        father's bakery mornings and evenings. He did not want to do that,
                        moaned a great deal, and his parents humored him in his attitude. He was
                        very vain, liked to appear intellectual, They kept saying to their friends
                        that he should have a fine future. Five years later, after I had left them
                        once, I met the mother and she told me that X was studying banking and
                        getting along fine."
                    Some seven years after the failure and trial by which he had so summarily
                        been disposed of and after he had been released from prison, I was standing
                        at a certain unimportant  street corner in New
                        York waiting for a car when I saw him. He was passing in the opposite
                        direction, not very briskly, and, as I saw, plainly meditatively. He was not
                        so well dressed. The clothes he wore while good were somehow different,
                        lacking in that exquisite something which had characterized him years
                        before. His hatwell, it was a hat, not a Romanoff shako nor a handsome
                        panama such as he had affected in the old days. He looked tired, a little
                        worn and dusty, I thought.
                    My first impulse was of course to hail him, my second not, since he had not
                        seen me. It might have been embarrassing, and at any rate he might not have
                        even remembered me. But as he walked I thought of the great house by the
                        sea, the studio, the cars, the 40,000 roses, the crowds at his summer place,
                        the receptions in town and out, Madame of the earrings (afterward married to
                        a French nobleman), and then of the letter to his mother as a boy, the
                        broken shoes in the winter time, his denial of his parents, the telephone
                        message from the financial tiger. "Vanity, vanity," saith
                        the preacher. The shores of our social seas are strewn with pathetic wrecks,
                        the whitening bone of half-sand-buried ships.
                    At the next corner he paused, a little uncertain apparently as to which way
                        to go, then turned to the left and was lost. I have never seen nor heard of
                        him since.
                
                
                
                    THE MIGHTY ROURKE
                    WHEN I first met him he was laying the foundation for a
                        small dynamo in the engine-room of the repair shop at Spike, and he was most
                        unusually loud in his protestations and demands. He had with him a dozen
                        Italians, all short, swarthy fellows of from twenty-five to fifty years of
                        age, who were busy bringing material from a car that had been pushed in on
                        the side-track next to the building. This was loaded with crushed stone,
                        cement, old boards, wheelbarrows, tools, and the like, all of which were to
                        be used in the labor that he was about to undertake. He himself was standing
                        in the doorway of the shop where the work was to be conducted, coat off,
                        sleeves rolled up, and shouting with true Irish insistence, "Come,
                        Matt! Come, Jimmie! Get the shovels, now! Get the picks! Bring some sand
                        here! Bring some stone! Where's the cement, now? Where's
                        the cement? Jasus Christ! I must have some cement! What arre ye all
                        doin'? What do ye think ye're up here fer? Hurry, now,
                        hurry! Bring the cement!" and then, having concluded this amazing
                        fanfare, calmly turning to gaze about as if he were the only one in the
                        world who had the right to stand still.
                    More or less oppressed with life myself at the time, I was against all
                        bosses, and particularly against so seemingly a vicious one as this.
                        "What a slave driver!" I thought. "What a
                        brute!" And yet I remember thinking that he was not exactly
                        unpleasant to look at, eitherquite the contrary. He was medium in height,
                        thick of body and neck, with short gray hair and mustache, and bright,
                        clear, twinkling Irish  gray eyes, and he
                        carried himself with an air of unquestionable authority. It was much as if
                        he had said, "I am the boss here"; and, indeed, he was. Is
                        it this that sends the Irish to rule as captains of hundreds the world over?
                    The job he was bossing was not very intricate or important, but it was
                        interesting. It consisted of digging a trench ten by twelve feet, and
                        shaping it up with boards into a "form," after which
                        concrete was to be mixed and poured in, and some iron rods set to fasten the
                        engine toan engine bed, no less. It was not so urgent but that it might have
                        been conducted with far less excitement, but what are you to do when you are
                        naturally excitable, love to make a great noise, and feel that things are
                        going forward whether they are or not? Plainly this particular individual
                        loved noise and a great stir. So eager was he to have done with it, no
                        matter what it was or where, that he was constantly trotting to and fro,
                        shouting, "Come, Matt! Come, Jimmie! Hurry, now, bring the shovels!
                        Bring the picks!" and occasionally bursting forth with a perfect
                        avalanche of orders. "Up with it! Down with it! Front with it! Back
                        with it! In with it! Out with it!" all coupled with his favorite
                        expletive, "Jasus Christ," which was as innocent of evil,
                        I subsequently came to know, as a prayer. In short, he was simply wild
                        Irish, and that was all there was to hima delightful specimen, like Namgay
                        Doola.
                    But, as I say, at the time he seemed positively appalling to me, a virulent
                        specimen, and I thought, "The Irish brute! To think of human beings
                        having to work for a brute like that! To think of his driving men like
                        that!" However, I soon began to discover that he was not so bad as
                        he seemed, and then I began to like him.
                    The thing that brought about this swift change of feeling in me was the
                        attitude of his men toward him. Although he was so insistent with his
                        commands, they did not seem to mind nor to strain themselves working. They
                        were not killing themselves,  by any means. He
                        would stand over them, crying, "Up with it! Up with it! Up with it!
                        Up with it!" or "Down with it! Down with it! Down with
                        it!" until you would have imagined their nerves would be worn to a
                        frazzle. As it was, however, they did not seem to care any more than you
                        would for the ticking of a clock; rather, they appeared to take it as a
                        matter of course, something that had to be, and that one was prepared for.
                        Their steps were in the main as leisurely as those of idlers on Fifth Avenue
                        or Broadway. They carried boards or stone as one would objects of great
                        value. One could not help smiling at the incongruity of it; it was farcical.
                        Finally gathering the full import of it all, I ventured to laugh, and he
                        turned on me with a sharp and yet not unkindly retort.
                    "Ha! ha! ha!" he mocked. "If ye had to work as
                        hard as these min, ye wouldn't laugh."
                    I wanted to say, "Hard work, indeed!" but instead I
                        replied, "Is that so? Well, I don't see that
                        they're killing themselves, or you either. You're not as
                        fierce as you sound."
                    Then I explained that I was not laughing at them but at him, and he took it
                        all in good part. Since I was only a nominal laborer here, not a real
                        onepermitted to work for my health, for twelve cents an hourwe fell to
                        conversing upon railroad matters, and in this way our period of friendship
                        began.
                    As I learned that morning, Rourke was the foreman-mason for minor tasks for
                        all that part of the railroad that lay between New York and fifty miles out,
                        on three divisions. He had a dozen or so men under him and was in possession
                        of one car, which was shunted back and forth between the places in which he
                        happened to be working. He was a builder of concrete platforms, culverts,
                        coal-bins, sidewalks, bridge and building piers, and, in fact, anything that
                        could be made out of crushed stone and cement, or bricks and stone, and he
                        was sent  here and there, as necessity
                        required. As he explained to me at the time, he sometimes rose as early as
                        four a. m. in order to get to his place of labor by seven. The great
                        railroad company for which he toiled was no gentle master, and did not look
                        upon his ease, or that of his men, as important. At the same time, as he
                        himself confessed, he did not mind hard workliked it, in short. He had been
                        working now for the company for all of twenty-two years, "rain or
                        shine." Darkness or storm made no difference to him.
                        "Shewer, I have to be there," he observed once with his
                        quizzical, elusive Irish grin. "They're not
                        payin' me wages fer lyin' in bed. If ye was to get up that
                        way yerself every day fer a year, me b'y," he added,
                        eyeing my spare and none too well articulated frame, "it'd
                        make a man av ye."
                    "Yes?" I said tolerantly. "And how much do you
                        get, Rourke?"
                    "Two an' a half a day."
                    "You don't say!" I replied, pretending admiration.
                    The munificence of the corporation that paid him two and a half dollars a day
                        for ten hours' work, as well as for superintending and constructing
                        things of such importance, struck me forcibly. Perhaps, as we say in
                        America, he "had a right" to be happy, only I could not
                        see it. At the same time, I could not help thinking that he was better
                        situated than myself at the time. I had been ill, and was now earning only
                        twelve cents an hour for ten hours' work, and the sight of the
                        foreman for whom I was working was a torture to my soul. He was such a
                        loud-mouthed, blustering, red-headed ignoramus, and I wanted to get out from
                        under him. At the same time, I was not without sufficient influence so to
                        do, providing I could find a foreman who could make use of me. The great
                        thing was to do this, and the more I eyed this particular specimen of
                        foreman the better I liked him. He was genial,  really kindly, amazingly simple and sincere. I decided to appeal to him
                        to take me on his staff.
                    "How would you like to take me, Mr. Rourke, and let me work for
                        you?" I asked hopefully, after explaining to him why I was here.
                    "Shewer," he replied. "Ye'd do
                        fine."
                    "Would I have to work with the Italians?" I asked,
                        wondering how I would make out with a pick and shovel. My frame was so spare
                        at the time that the question must have amused him, considering the type of
                        physique required for day labor.
                    "There'll be plenty av work fer ye to do without ever yer
                        layin' a hand to a pick er shovel," he replied
                        comfortingly. "Shewer, that's no work fer white min. Let
                        the nagurs do it. Look at their backs an' arrms; an' then
                        look at yers."
                    I was ready to blush for shame. These poor Italians whom I was so ready to
                        contemn were immeasurably my physical superiors.
                    "But why do you call them negroes, Rourke?" I asked after a
                        time. "They're not black."
                    "Well, bedad, they're not white, that's waan thing
                        shewer," he added. "Aany man can tell that be
                        lookin' at thim."
                    I had to smile. It was so dogmatic and unreasoning.
                    "Very well, then, they're black," I said, and we
                        left the matter.
                    Not long after I put in a plea to be transferred to him, at his request, and
                        it was granted. The day that I joined his flock, or gang, as he called it,
                        he was at Williamsbridge, a little station north on the Harlem, building a
                        concrete coal-bin. It was a pretty place, surrounded by trees and a
                        grass-plot, a vast improvement upon a dark indoor shop, and seemed to me a
                        veritable haven of rest. Ah, the smiling morning sun, the green leaves, the
                        gentle fresh winds of heaven!
                    Rourke was down in an earthen excavation under the depot  platform when I arrived, measuring and calculating with his
                        plumb-bob and level, and when I looked in on him hopefully he looked up and
                        smiled.
                    "So here ye arre at last," he said with a grin.
                    "Yes," I laughed.
                    "Well, ye're jist in time; I waant ye to go down to the
                        ahffice."
                    "Certainly," I replied, but before I could say more he
                        climbed out of his hole, his white jeans odorous of the new turned earth,
                        and fished in the pocket of an old gray coat which lay beside him for a
                        soiled and crumpled letter, which he finally unfolded with his thick, clumsy
                        fingers. Then he held it up and looked at it defiantly.
                    "I waant ye to go to Woodlawn," he continued,
                        "an' look after some bolts that arre up
                        therethere's a keg av thiman' sign the bill fer thim,
                        an' ship thim down to me. An' thin I waant ye to go down
                        to the ahffice an take thim this o. k." Here again he fished around
                        and produced another crumpled slip, this time of a yellow color (how well I
                        came to know them!), which I soon learned was an o. k. blank, a form which
                        had to be filled in and signed for everything received, if no more than a
                        stick of wood or a nail or a bolt. The company demanded these of all
                        foremen, in order to keep its records straight. Its accounting department
                        was useless without them. At the same time, Rourke kept talking of the
                        "nonsinse av it," and the
                        "onraisonableness" of demanding o. k.s for everything.
                        "Ye'd think some one was goin' to sthale thim
                        from thim," he declared irritably and defiantly.
                    I saw at once that some infraction of the railroad rules had occurred and
                        that he had been "called down," or "jacked
                        up" about it, as the railroad men expressed it. He was in a high
                        state of dudgeon, and as defiant and pugnacious as his royal Irish temper
                        would allow. At the same time he was pleased to  think that I or some one had arrived who would relieve him of this
                        damnable "nonsinse," or so he hoped. He was not so
                        inexperienced as not to imagine that I could help him with all this. In
                        fact, as time proved, this was my sole reason for being here.
                    He flung a parting shot at his superior as I departed.
                    "Tell him that I'll sign fer thim when I get thim,
                        an' not before," he declared.
                    I went on my way, knowing full well that no such message was for delivery,
                        and that he did not intend that it should be. It was just the Irish of it. I
                        went off to Wood-lawn and secured the bolts, after which I went down to the
                        "ahffice" and reported. There I found the chief clerk, a
                        mere slip of a dancing master in a high collar and attractive office suit,
                        who was also in a high state of dudgeon because Rourke, as he now explained,
                        had failed to render an o. k. for this and other things, and did not seem to
                        understand that he, the chief clerk, must have them to make up his reports.
                        Sometimes o. k.s did not come in for a month or more, the goods lying around
                        somewhere until Rourke could use them. He wanted to know what explanation
                        Rourke had to offer, and when I suggested that the latter thought,
                        apparently, that he could leave all consignments of goods in one station or
                        another until such time as he needed them before he o. k. ed for them, he
                        fairly foamed.
                    "Say," he almost shouted, at the same time shoving his
                        hands distractedly through his hair, "what does he think I am? How
                        does he think I'm going to make up my books? He'll leave
                        them there until he needs them, will he? Well, he's a damned fool,
                        and you go back and tell him I said so. He's been long enough on
                        the road to know better. You go back and tell him I said that I want a
                        signed form for everything consigned to him the moment he learns that
                        it's waiting for him, and I want it right away, without fail,
                        whether it's a  single nut or a car
                        of sand. I want it. He's got to come to time about this now, or
                        something's going to drop. I'm not going to stand it any
                        longer. How does he think I'm going to make up my books? I wish
                        he'd let you attend to these matters while you're up
                        there. It will save an awful lot of trouble in this office and it may save
                        him his job. There's one thing sure: he's got to come to
                        time from now on, or either he quits or I do."
                    These same o. k.s plus about twenty-five long-drawn-out reports or
                        calculations, retroactive and prospective, covering every possible detail of
                        his work from the acknowledgment of all material received up to and
                        including the expenditure of even so much as one mill's worth of
                        paper, were the bane of my good foreman's life. As I learned
                        afterward, he had nearly his whole family, at least a boy and two girls,
                        assisting him nights on this part of the work. In addition, while they were
                        absolutely of no import in so far as the actual work of construction was
                        concernedand that was really all that interested Rourkethey were an
                        essential part of the system which made it possible for him to do the work
                        at alla point which he did not seem to be able to get clear. At the same
                        time, there was an unsatisfactory side to this office technicalia, and it
                        was this: If a man could only sit down and reel off a graphic account of all
                        that he was doing, accompanied by facts and figures, he was in excellent
                        standing with his superiors, no matter what his mechanical defects might be;
                        whereas, if his reports were not clear, or were insufficient, the efficiency
                        of his work might well be overlooked. In a vague way, Rourke sensed this and
                        resented it. He knew that his work was as good as could be done, and yet
                        here were these constant reports and o. k.s to irritate and delay him.
                        Apparently they aided actual construction no whitbut, of course, they did.
                        Although he was a better foreman than most, still, because of his lack of
                        skill in this matter of accounting, he  was
                        looked upon as more or less a failure, especially by the chief clerk.
                        Naturally, I explained that I would do my best, and came away.
                    When I returned, however, I decided to be politic. I could not very well work
                        with a pick and shovel, and this was about all that was left outside of
                        that. I therefore explained as best I could the sad plight of the chief
                        clerk, who stood in danger of losing his job unless these things came in
                        promptly.
                    "You see how it is, Rourke, don't you?" I pleaded.
                    He seemed to see, but he was still angry.
                    "An o. k. blank! An o. k. blank!" he echoed contentiously,
                        but in a somewhat more conciliatory spirit. "He wants an o. k.
                        blank, does he? Well, I expect ye might as well give thim to him, thin. I
                        think the man lives on thim things, the way he's aalways
                        caallin' fer thim. Ye'd think I was a bookkeeper
                        an' foreman at the same time; it's somethin'
                        aaful. An o. k. blank! An o. k. blank!" and he sputtered to
                        silence.
                    A little while later he humorously explained that he had "clane
                        forgot thim, anyhow."
                    The ensuing month was a busy one for us. We had a platform to lay at
                        Morrisania, a chemney to build at Tarry town, a sidewalk to lay at White
                        Plains, and a large cistern to dig and wall in at Tuckahoe. Besides these,
                        there were platforms to build at Van Cortlandt and Mount Kisco, water-towers
                        at Highbridge and Ardsley, a sidewalk and drain at Caryl, a culvert and an
                        ash-pit at Bronx Park, and some forty concrete piers for a building at
                        Melroseall of which required any amount of running and figuring, to say
                        nothing of the actual work of superintending and constructing, which Rourke
                        alone could look after. It seemed ridiculous to me at the time that any one
                        doing all this hard practical labor should not be provided with a clerk or
                        an accountant to take at least some of this endless figuring off his hands.
                        At the same time, if he had been the least bit clever, he could have
                        provided  himself with one permanently by
                        turning one of his so-called laborers into a clerkcarrying a clerk as a
                        laborerbut plainly it had never occurred to him. He depended on his family.
                        The preliminary labor alone of ordering and seeing that the material was
                        duly shipped and unloaded was one man's work; and yet Rourke was
                        expected to do it all.
                    In spite of all this, however, he displayed himself a masterful worker. I
                        have never seen a better. He preferred to superintend, of course, to get
                        down into the pit or up on the wall, and measure and direct. At the same
                        time, when necessary to expedite a difficult task, he would toil for hours
                        at a stretch with his trowel and his line and his level and his plumbbob,
                        getting the work into shape, and you would never hear a personal complaint
                        from him concerning the weariness of labor. On the contrary, he would
                        whistle and sing until something went wrong, when suddenly you would hear
                        the most terrific uproar of words: "Come out av that! Come out,
                        now! Jasus Christ, man, have ye no sinse at aall? Put it down! Put it down!
                        What arre ye doin'? What did I tell ye? Have ye no raison in ye, no
                        sinse, ye h'athen nagur?"
                    "Great heavens!" I used to think, "what has
                        happened now?"
                    You would have imagined the most terrible calamity; and yet, all told, it
                        might be nothing of any great importa little error of some kind, more
                        threatening than real, and soon adjusted. It might last for a few moments,
                        during which time the Italians would be seen hurrying excitedly to and fro;
                        and then there would come a lull, and Rourke would be heard to raise his
                        voice in tuneful melody, singing or humming or whistling some old-fashioned
                        Irish "Come-all-ye."
                    But the thing in Rourke that would have pleased any one was his ready grasp
                        for the actualities of lifehis full-fledged knowledge that work is the
                        thing, not argument, or reports, or plans, but the direct accomplishment of
                        something tangible,  the thing itself. Thus,
                        while I was working with him, at least nothing that might concern the
                        clerical end of the labor could disturb him, but, if the sky fell, and eight
                        thousand chief clerks threatened to march upon him in a body demanding
                        reports and o. k.s, he would imperturbably make you wait until the work was
                        done. Once, when I interrupted him to question him concerning some of these
                        same wretched, pestering aftermaths of labor, concerning which he alone
                        could answer, he shut me off with: "The reports! The reports! What
                        good arre the reports! Ye make me sick. What have the reports to do with the
                        work? If it wasn't fer the work, where would the reports
                        be?" And I heartily echoed "Where?"
                    Another thing was his charming attitude toward his men, kindly and sweet for
                        all his storming, that innate sense of something intimate and fatherly. He
                        had a way of saying kindly things in a joking manner which touched them.
                        When he arrived in the morning, for instance, it was always in the cheeriest
                        way that he began. "Come, now, b'ys, ye have a good
                        day's work before ye today. Get the shovels, Jimmie. Bring the
                        line, Matt!" and then he would go below himself, if below it was,
                        and there would be joy and peace until some obstacle to progress interfered.
                        I might say in passing that Matt and Jimmie, his faithful henchmen, were
                        each between forty and fifty, if they were a daypoor, gnarled, dusty,
                        storm-tossed Italians who had come from heaven knows where, had endured God
                        knows what, and were now rounding out a work-a-day existence under the
                        sheltering wing of this same Rourke, a great and protecting power to them.
                    This same Matt was a funny little Italian, soft of voice and gentle of
                        manner, whom Rourke liked very much, but with whom he loved to quarrel. He
                        would go down in any hole where the latter was working, and almost
                        invariably shortly after you would hear the most amazing uproar issuing
                        therefrom, shouts of: "Put it here, I say! Put it here! Down with
                             it! Here! Here! Jasus Christ, have ye no
                        sinse at aall?" coupled, of course, with occasional guttural growls
                        from Matt, who was by no means in awe of his master and who feared no
                        personal blows. The latter had been with Rourke for so long that he was not
                        in the least overawed by his yelling and could afford to take such
                        liberties. Occasionally, not always, Rourke would come climbing out of the
                        hole, his face and neck fairly scarlet with heat, raging and shouting,
                        "I'll get shut av ye! I'll have no more thruck
                        with ye, ye blitherin', crazy loon! What good arre ye? What work
                        can ye do? Naathin'! Naathin'! I'll be shut av ye
                        now, an' thin maybe I'll have a little
                        p'ace." Then he would dance around and threaten and growl
                        until something else would take his attention, when he would quiet down and
                        be as peaceful as ever. Somehow, I always felt that in spite of all the
                        difficulties involved, he enjoyed these rowsmust fight, in short, to be
                        happy. Sometimes he would go home without saying a word to Matt, a
                        conclusion which at first I imagined portended the end of the latter, but
                        soon I came to know better. For the next morning Matt would reappear as
                        unconcernedly as though nothing had happened, and Rourke would appear not to
                        notice or remember.
                    Once, anent all this, I said to him, "Rourke, how many times have
                        you threatened to discharge Matt in the last three years?"
                    "Shewer," he replied, with his ingratiating grin,
                        "a man don't mane aall he says aall the time."
                    The most humorous of all his collection of workingmen, however, was the
                        aforementioned Jimmie, a dark, mild-eyed, soft-spoken Calabrian, who had the
                        shrewdness of a Machiavelli and the pertness of a crow. He lived in the same
                        neighborhood as Rourke, far out in one of those small towns on the Harlem,
                        sheltering so many Italians, for, like a hen with a brood of chicks, Rourke
                        kept all his Italians gathered close  about
                        him. Jimmie, curiously, was the one who was always selected to run his
                        family errands for him, a kind of valet to Rourke, as it wereselected for
                        some merit I could never discover, certainly not one of speed. He was
                        nevertheless constantly running here and there like an errand boy, his worn,
                        dusty, baggy clothes making him look like a dilapidated bandit fresh from a
                        sewer. On the job, however, no matter what it might be, Jimmie could never
                        be induced to do real, hard work. He was always above it, or busy with
                        something else. But as he was an expert cement-mixer and knew just how to
                        load and unload the tool-car, two sinecures of sorts, nothing was ever said
                        to him. If any one dared to reprove him, myself for instance (a mere
                        interloper to Jimmie), he would reply: "Yeh! Yeh! I know-a my biz.
                        I been now with Misha Rook fifteen year. I know-a my biz." If you
                        made any complaint to Rourke, he would merely grin and say, "Ha!
                        Jimmie's the sharp one," or perhaps,
                        "I'll get ye yet, ye fox," but more than that
                        nothing was ever done.
                    One day, however, Jimmie failed to comply with an extraordinary order of
                        Rourke's, which, while it resulted in no real damage, produced a
                        most laughable and yet characteristic scene. A strict rule of the company
                        was that no opening of any kind into which a person might possibly step or
                        fall should be left uncovered at any station during the approach, stay, or
                        departure of any train scheduled to stop at that station. Rourke was well
                        aware of this rule. He had a copy of it on file in his collection of
                        circulars. In addition, he had especially delegated Jimmie to attend to this
                        matter, a task which just suited the Italian as it gave him ample time to
                        idle about and pretend to be watching. This it was which made the crime all
                        the greater.
                    On this particular occasion Jimmie had failed to attend to this matter. We
                        had been working on the platform at Williams-bridge, digging a pit for a
                        coal-bin, when a train bearing the  general
                        foreman came along. The latter got off at the station especially to examine
                        the work that had been done so far. When the train arrived there was the
                        hole wide open with Rourke below shouting and gesticulating about something,
                        and totally unconscious, of course, that his order had been neglected. The
                        general foreman, who was, by the way, I believe, an admirer of Rourke, came
                        forward, looked down, and said quietly: "This won't do,
                        Rourke. You'll have to keep the work covered when a train is
                        approaching. I've told you that before, you know."
                    Rourke looked up, so astonished and ashamed that he should have been put in
                        such a position before his superior that he hardly knew what to say. I doubt
                        if any one ever had a greater capacity for respecting his superiors, anyhow.
                        Instead of trying to answer, he merely choked and began to shout for Jimmie,
                        who came running, crying, as he always did, "What's da
                        mat'? What's da mat'?"
                    "What's da mat'? What's da
                        mat'?" mocked Rourke, fairly seething with a marvelous
                        Irish fury. "What the devil do ye suppose is the mat'?
                        What do ye mane be waalkin' away an'
                        l'avin' the hole uncovered? Didn't I tell ye
                        niver to l'ave a hole when a train's comin'?
                        Didn't I tell ye to attind to that an' naathin'
                        else? An' now what have ye been doin'? Be all the powers,
                        what d'ye mane be l'avin' it? What else arre ye
                        good fer? What d'ye mane be lettin' a thing like that
                        happen, an' Mr. Wilson comin' along here, an' the
                        hole open?"
                    He was as red as a beet, purple almost, perspiring, apoplectic. During all
                        this tirade Mr. Wilson, a sad, dark, anaemic-looking person, troubled with
                        acute indigestion, I fancy, stood by with an amused, kindly, and yet mock
                        severe expression on his face. I am sure he did not wish to be severe.
                    Jimmie, dumbfounded, scarcely knew what to say. In the face of
                        Rourke's rage and the foreman's presence, he did his  best to remedy his error by covering the
                        hole, at the same time stuttering something about going for a trowel.
                    "A trowell" cried Rourke, glaring at him. "A
                        trowel, ye h'athen ginny! What'd ye be doin'
                        lookin' fer a trowel, an' a train comin' that
                        close on ye it could 'a' knocked ye off the thrack?
                        An' the hole open, an' Mr. Wilson right here! Is that what
                        I told ye? Is that what I pay ye fer? Be all the saints! A trowel, is it?
                        I'll trowel ye! I'll break yer h'athen Eyetalian
                        skull, I will. Get thim boards on, an' don't let me ketch
                        ye l'avin' such a place as that open again. I'll
                        get shut av ye, ye blitherin' lunatic."
                    When it was all over and the train bearing the general foreman had gone,
                        Rourke quieted down, but not without many fulgurous flashes that kept the
                        poor Italian on tenterhooks.
                    About an hour later, however, another train arrived, and, by reason of some
                        intervening necessity and the idle, wandering mood of the Italian, the hole
                        was open again. Jimmie was away behind the depot somewhere, smoking perhaps,
                        and Rourke was, as usual, down in the hole. This time misfortune trebled
                        itself, however, by bringing, not the general foreman, but the supervisor
                        himself, a grave, quiet man, of whom Rourke stood in the greatest awe. He
                        was so solid, so profound, so severe. I don't believe I ever saw
                        him smile. He walked up to the hole, and looking reproachfully down, said:
                        "Is this the way you leave your excavations, Rourke, when a train
                        is coming? Don't you know better than to do a thing like
                        that?"
                    "Jimmie!" shouted Rourke, leaping to the surface of the
                        earth with a bound, "Jimmie! Now, be Jasus, where is that
                        bla'guard Eyetalian? Didn't I tell him not to
                        l'ave this place open!" and he began shoving the planks
                        into place himself.
                    Jimmie, suddenly made aware of this new catastrophe, came running as fast as
                        his short legs would carry him, scared almost 
                        out of his wits. He was as pale as a very dark and dirty Italian could be,
                        and so wrought up that his facial expression changed involuntarily from
                        moment to moment. Rourke was in a fairly murderous mood, only he was so
                        excited and ashamed that he could not speak. Here was the supervisor, and
                        here was himself, and conditionsnecessity for order, etc.would not permit
                        him to kill the Italian in the former's presence. He could only
                        choke and wait. To think that he should be made a mark of like this, and
                        that in the face of his great supervisor! His face and neck were a beetred,
                        and his eyes flashed with anger. He merely glared at his recalcitrant
                        henchman, as much as to say, "Wait!" When this train had
                        departed and the dignified supervisor had been carried safely out of hearing
                        he turned on Jimmie with all the fury of a masterful and excitable temper.
                    "So ye'll naht cover the hole, after me tellin' ye
                        naht fifteen minutes ago, will ye?" he shouted.
                        "Ye'll naht cover the hole! An' what'll
                        ye be tellin' me ye was doin' now?"
                    "I carry da waut (water) for da concrete," pleaded Jimmie
                        weakly.
                    "Waut fer the concrete," almost moaned Rourke, so great was
                        his fury, his angry face shoved close to the Italian's own.
                        "Waut fer the concrete, is it? It's a pity ye
                        didn't fall into yer waut fer the concrete, ye damned nagur,
                        an' drown! Waut fer the concrete, is it, an' me here,
                        an' Mr. Mills steppin' off an' lookin'
                        in on me, ye black-hearted son of a Eyetalian, ye! I'll waut fer
                        the concrete ye! I'll crack yer blitherin' Eyetalian skull
                        with a pick, I will! I'll chuck ye in yer waut fer the concrete
                        till ye choke, ye flat-footed, leather-headed lunatic! I'll tache
                        ye to waalk aaf an' I'ave the hole open, an' me
                        in it. Now, be Jasus, get yer coat an' get out av this.
                        GetI'm tellin' ye! I'll have no more thruck with
                        ye! I'll throuble no more with ye. Ye're no damned good.
                        Out with ye! An'  niver show me yer
                        face again!" And he made a motion as if he would grab him and rend
                        him limb from limb.
                    Jimmie, well aware of his dire position, was too clever, however, to let
                        Rourke seize him. During all this conversation he had been slowly backing
                        away, always safely beyond Rourke's reach, and now ranan amazing
                        feat for him. He had evidently been through many such scenes before. He
                        retreated first behind the depot, and then when Rourke had gone to work once
                        more down in his hole, came back and took a safe position on guard over the
                        hitherto sadly neglected opening. When the next train came he was there to
                        shove the boards over before it neared the station, and nothing more was
                        said about the matter. Rourke did not appear to notice him. He did not even
                        seem to see that he was there. The next morning, however, when the latter
                        came to work as usual, it was, "Come, Matt! Come, Jimmie!"
                        just as if nothing had happened. I was never more astonished in my life.
                    An incident, even more ridiculous, but illustrative of the atmosphere in
                        which Rourke dwelt, occurred at Highbridge one frosty October Sunday
                        morning, where because of seepage from a hill which threatened to undermine
                        some tracks, Rourke was ordered to hurry and build a draina thing which,
                        because the order came on Saturday afternoon, required Sunday labor, a most
                        unusual thing in his case. But in spite of the order, Rourke, who was a good
                        Catholic, felt impelled before coming to go to at least early mass, and in
                        additiona regular Sunday practice with him, I presumeto put on a
                        long-skirted Prince Albert coat, which I had never seen before and which
                        lent to his stocky figure some amusing lines. It was really too tight,
                        having been worn, I presume, every Sunday regularly since his wedding day.
                        In addition, he had donned a brown derby that which, to me at least, gave
                        him a most unfamiliar look.
                    I, being curious more than anything else and wishing to  be out of doors as much as possible, also went up, arriving on
                        the scene about nine. Rourke did not arrive until ten. In the meantime, I
                        proceeded to build myself a fire on the dock, for we were alongside the
                        Harlem River and a brisk wind was blowing. Then Rourke came, fresh from
                        church, smiling and genial, in the most cheerful Sunday-go-to-meeting frame
                        of mind, but plainly a little conscious of his grand garb.
                    "My," I said, surveying him, "you look fine. I
                        never saw you dressed up before."
                    "L'ave aaf with yer taalk," he replied.
                        "I know well enough how I lookgood enough."
                    Then he bestirred himself about the task of examining what had been done so
                        far. But I could see, in spite of all the busy assurance with which he
                        worked, that he was still highly conscious of his clothes and a little
                        disturbed by what I or others might think. His every-day garb plainly suited
                        his mood much better.
                    Everything went smoothly until noon, not a cloud in the sky, when, looking
                        across the tracks at that hour, I beheld coming toward us with more or less
                        uncertain step another individual, stocky of figure and evidently bent on
                        seeing Rourkean Irishman as large as Rourke, younger, and, if anything,
                        considerably coarser in fiber. He was very red-faced, smooth shaven, with a
                        black derby hat pulled down over his eyes and wearing a somewhat faded
                        tight-fitting brown suit. He was drunk, or nearly so, that was plain from
                        the first. From the moment Rourke beheld him he seemed beside himself with
                        anger or irritation. His expression changed completely and he began to
                        swell, as was customary with him when he was angry, as though suffering from
                        an internal eruption of some kind.
                    "The bla'guard!" I heard him mutter.
                        "Now, be gob, what'll that felly be
                        waantin'?" and then as the stranger drew nearer,
                        "Who was it tould him I was here? Maybe some waan at the
                        ahffice."
                    
                    Regardless of his speculations on this score, the stranger picked his way
                        across the tracks and came directly to him, his face and manner indicating
                        no particularly friendly frame of mind.
                    "Maybe ye'll be lettin' me have that money
                        now," he began instanter, and when Rourke made no reply, merely
                        staring at him, he added, "I'll be waantin' to
                        know now, when it is ye're goin' to give me the rest av me
                        time fer that Scarborough job. I've been waitin' long
                        enough."
                    Rourke stirred irritably and aggressively before he spoke. He seemed greatly
                        put out, shamed, to think that the man should come here so, especially on
                        this peaceful Sabbath morning.
                    "I've tould ye before," he replied defiantly after
                        a time, "that ye've had aall ye earned, an' more.
                        Ye left me without finishin' yer work, an' ye'll
                        get no more time from me. If ye waant more, go down to the ahffice
                        an' see if they'll give it to ye. I have no money fer ye
                        here," and he resumed a comfortable position before the fire, his
                        hands behind his back.
                    "It's siven dollars ye still owe me," returned the
                        other, ignoring Rourke's reply, "an' I waant it
                        now."
                    "Well, ye'll naht get it," replied my boss.
                        "I've naathin' fer ye, I'm
                        tellin' ye. I owe ye naathin'."
                    "Is that so?" returned the other. "Well,
                        we'll see about that. Ye'll be after givin' it to
                        me, er I'll get it out of ye somehow. It's naht
                        goin' to be ch'ated out av me money I am."
                    "I'm owin' ye naathin',"
                        insisted Rourke. "Ye may as well, go away from here. Ye'll
                        get naathin'. If ye waant anything more, go an' see the
                        ahffice," and now he strode away to where the Italians were,
                        ignoring the stranger completely and muttering something about his being
                        drunk. The latter followed him, however, over to where he stood, and
                        continued the  dispute. Rourke ignored him as
                        much as possible, only exclaiming once, "L'ave me be, man.
                        Ye're drunk."
                    "I'm naht drunk," returned the other.
                        "Once an' fer all now, I'm askin' ye,
                        arre ye goin' to give me that money?"
                    "No," replied Rourke, "I'm
                        naht."
                    "Belave me," said the stranger, "I'll get
                        it out av ye somehow," but for the moment he made no move, merely
                        hanging about in an uncertain way. He seemed to have no definite plan for
                        collecting the money, or if he had he had by now abandoned it.
                    Without paying any more attention to him, Rourke, still very irritated and
                        defiant, returned to the fire. He tried to appear calm and indifferent, but
                        the ex-workman, a non-union mason, I judged, followed after, standing before
                        him and staring in the defiant, irritating way a drunken man will, not quite
                        able to make up his mind what else to do. Presently Rourke, more to relieve
                        the tedium of an embarrassing situation than anything else (a number of
                        accusatory remarks having been passed), turned and began poking at the
                        blaze, finally bending over to lay on a stick of wood. On the instant, and
                        as if seized by sudden inspiration, whether because the tails of
                        Rourke's long coat hung out in a most provoking fashion and
                        suggested the thing that followed or not, I don't know, but now the
                        red-faced intruder jumped forward, and seizing them in a most nimble and yet
                        vigorous clutch, gave an amazing yank, which severed them straight up the
                        back, from seat to nape, at the same time exclaiming:
                    "Ye'll naht pay me, will ye? Ye'll naht, will
                        ye?"
                    On the instant a tremendous change came over the scene. It was as swift as
                        stage play. Instantly Rourke was upright and faced about, shouting,
                        "Now, be gob, ye've torn me coat, have ye! Now
                        I'll tache ye! Now I'll show ye! Wait! Get ready, now. Now
                        I'll fix ye, ye drunken, thavin' loafer," and at
                        the same time he began to move upon the enemy in a kind  of rhythmic, cryptic circle (some law governing anger and
                        emotion, I presume), the while his hands opened and shut and his eyes looked
                        as though they would be veiled completely by his narrowing lids. At the same
                        time the stranger, apparently seeing his danger, began backing and circling
                        in the same way around Rourke, as well as around the fire, until it looked
                        as though they were performing a war dance. Round and round they went like
                        two Hopi bucks or Zulu warriors, their faces displaying the most murderous
                        cunning and intention to slayonly, instead of feathers and beads, they had
                        on their negligible best. All the while Rourke was calling, "Come
                        on, now! Get ready, now! I'll show ye, now! I'll fix ye,
                        now! It's me coat ye'll rip, is it? Come on, now! Get
                        ready! Make yerself ready! I'm goin' to give ye the
                        lickin' av yer life! Come on, now! Come on, now! Come on,
                        now!"
                    It was as though each had been secreted from the other and had to be sought
                        out in some mysterious manner and in a circle. In spite of the feeling of
                        distress that an impending struggle of this kind gives one, I could not help
                        nothing the comic condition of Rourke's backthe long coat
                        beautifully ripped straight up the back, its ends fluttering in the wind
                        like fans, and exposing his waistcoat and Sunday boiled white shirtand
                        laying up a laugh for the future. It was too ridiculous. The stranger had a
                        most impressive and yet absurd air of drunken sternness written in his face,
                        a do-or-die look.
                    Whether anything serious would really have happened I was never permitted to
                        learn, for now, in addition to myself and the Italians, all of them excited
                        and ready to defend their lord and master, some passengers from the nearby
                        station and the street above as well as a foreman of a section gang helping
                        at this same task, a great hulking brute of a man who looked quite able to
                        handle both Rourke and his opponent at one and the same time, came forward
                        and joined in this excited circle. Considerable effort was made on the part
                        of the latter  to learn just what the trouble
                        was, after which the big foreman interposed with:
                    "What's the trouble here? Come, now! What's all
                        this row, Rourke? Ye wouldn't fight here, would ye? Have him
                        arristed, er go to his homeye say ye know himbut don't be
                        fightin' here. Supposin' waan av the bosses should be
                        comin' along now?" and at the same time he interposed his
                        great bulk between the two.
                    Rourke, quieted some by this interruption but still sputtering with rage and
                        disgrace, shouted, "Lookit me coat! Lookit what he done to me coat!
                        See what he done to me coat! Man alive, d'ye think I'm
                        goin' to stand fer the likes av that? It's naht me that
                        can be waalked on by a loafer like thatan' me payin' him
                        more than ever he was worth, an' him waalkin' aaf
                        an' l'avin' the job half done. I'll fix
                        him this time. I'll show him. I'll tache him to be
                        comin' around an' disturbin' a man when
                        he's at his work. I'll fix him now," and once
                        more he began to move. But the great foreman was not so easily to be
                        disposed of.
                    "Well then, let's caall the police," he argued in
                        a highly conciliatory mood. "Ye can't be fightin'
                        him here. Sure, ye don't waant to do that. What'll the
                        chafe think? What is it ye'll think av yerself?"
                    At the same time he turned to find the intruder and demand to know what he
                        meant by it, but the latter had already decamped. Seeing the crowd that had
                        and was gathering, and that he was likely to encounter more forms of trouble
                        than he had anticipated, he had started down the track toward Mott Haven.
                    "I'll fix ye!" Rourke shouted when he saw him
                        going. "Ye'll pay fer this. I'll have ye
                        arristed. Wait! Ye'll naht get aaf so aisy this time."
                    But just the same the storm was over for the present, anyhow, the man gone,
                        and in a little while Rourke left for his 
                        home at Mount Vernon to repair his tattered condition. I never saw a man so
                        crestfallen, nor one more determined to "have the laa on
                        him" in my life. Afterwards, when I inquired very cautiously what
                        he had done about itthis was a week or two laterhe replied,
                        "Shewer, what can ye do with a loafer like that? He has no money,
                        an' lockin' him up won't help his wife
                        an' children any."
                    Thus ended a perfect scene out of Kilkenny.
                    It was not so very long after I arrived that Rourke began to tell me of a
                        building which the company was going to erect in Mott Haven Yard, one of its
                        great switching centers. It was to be an important affair, according to him,
                        sixty by two hundred feet in breadth and length, of brick and stone, and was
                        to be built under a time limit of three months, an arrangement by which the
                        company hoped to find out how satisfactorily it could do work for itself
                        rather than by outside contract, which it was always hoping to avoid. From
                        his manner and conversation, I judged that Rourke was eager to get this job,
                        for he had been a contractor of some ability in his day before he ever went
                        to work for the company, and felt, I am sure, that fate had done him an
                        injustice in not allowing him to remain one. In addition, he felt a little
                        above the odds and ends of masonry that he was now called on to do, where
                        formerly he had done so much more important work. He was eager to be a real
                        foreman once more, a big one, and to show the company that he could erect
                        this building and thus make a little place for himself in the
                        latter's good graces, although to what end I could not quite make
                        out. He would never have made a suitable general foreman. At the same time,
                        he was a little afraid of the clerical details, those terrible nightmares of
                        reports, o. k.s. and the like.
                    "How arre ye feelin', Teddy, b'y?" he
                        often inquired of me during this period, with a greater show of interest in
                        my troublesome health than ever before. I talked of leaving, I  suppose, from time to time because sheer
                        financial necessity was about to compel it.
                    "Fine, Rourke," I would say, "never better.
                        I'm feeling better every day."
                    "That's good. Ye're the right man in the right
                        place now. If ye was to sthay a year er two at this work it would be the
                        makin' av ye. Ye're too thin. Ye need more
                        chist," and he would tap my bony chest in a kindly manner.
                        "I niver have a sick day, meself."
                    "That's right, Rourke," I replied pleasantly,
                        feeling keenly the need of staying by so wonderful a lamp of health.
                        "I intend to stick at it as long as I can."
                    "Ye ought to; it'll do ye good. If we get the new
                        buildin' to build, it'll be better yet for ye.
                        Ye'll have plenty to do there to relave yer mind."
                    "Relieve, indeed!" I thought, but I did not say so. On the
                        contrary I felt so much sympathy for this lusty Irishman and his reasonable
                        ambitions that I desired to help him, and urged him to get it. I suggested
                        indirectly that I would see him through, which touched him greatly. He was a
                        grateful creature in his way, but so excitable and so helplessly
                        self-reliant that there was no way of aiding him without doing it in a
                        secret or rather self-effacing manner. He would have much preferred to
                        struggle along alone and fail, though I doubt whether real failure could
                        have come to Rourke so essentially capable was he.
                    In another three weeks the work was really given him to do, and then began
                        one of the finest exhibitions of Irish domination and self-sufficiency that
                        I have ever witnessed. We moved to Mott Haven Yard, a great network of
                        tracks and buildings, in the center of which this new building was to be
                        erected. Rourke was given a large force of men, whom he fairly gloried in
                        bossing. He had as many as forty Italians, to say nothing of a number of
                        pseudo-carpenters and masons  (not those
                        shrewd hawks clever enough to belong to the union, but wasters and failures
                        of another type) who did the preliminary work of digging for the foundation,
                        etc. Handling these, Rourke was in his element. He loved to see so much
                        brisk work going on. He would trot to and fro about the place, beaming in
                        the most angelic fashion, and shouting orders that could be heard all over
                        the neighborhood. It was delicious to watch him. At times he would stand by
                        the long trenches where the men were digging for the foundation, a great
                        line of them, their backs bent over their work, and rub his hands in
                        pleasingly human satisfaction, saying, "We're
                        goin' along fine, Teddy. I can jist see me way to the top av the
                        buildin'," and then he would proceed to harass and annoy
                        his men out of pure exuberance of spirits.
                    "Ye waant to dig it so, man," or, "Ye
                        don't handle yer pick right; can't ye see that? Hold it
                        this way." Sometimes he would get down in the trench and
                        demonstrate just how it was to be done a thing which greatly amused some of
                        the workmen. Frequently he would exhibit to me little tricks or knacks of
                        his trade, such as throwing a trowel ten feet so that it would stick in a
                        piece of wood; turning a shovel over with a lump of dirt on it and not
                        dropping the lump, and similar simple acts, always adding,
                        "Ye'll niver be a mason till ye can do that."
                    When he was tired of fussing with the men outside he would come around to the
                        little wooden shed, where I was keeping the mass of orders and reports in
                        shape and getting his material ready for him, and look over the papers in
                        the most knowing manner. When he had satisfied himself that everything was
                        going right, he would exclaim, "Ye're jist the
                        b'y fer the place, Teddy. Ye'd made a good bookkeeper. If
                        ever I get to be Prisident, I'll make ye me Sicretary av
                        State."
                    But the thing which really interested and enthralled Rourke was the coming of
                        the masonsthose hardy buccaneers of the 
                        laboring world who come and go as they please, asking no favors and brooking
                        no interference. Plainly he envied them their reckless independence at the
                        same time that he desired to control their labor in his favora task worthy
                        of the shrewdest diplomat. Never in my life have I seen such a gay,
                        ruthless, inconsiderate point of view as these same union masons
                        represented, a most astounding lot. They wereare, I suppose I should sayour
                        modern buccaneers and Captain Kidds of the laboring world, demanding, if you
                        please, their six a day, starting and stopping almost when they please,
                        doing just as little as they dare and yet face their own decaying
                        conscience, dropping any task at the most critical and dangerous point, and
                        in other ways rejoicing in and disporting themselves in such a way as to
                        annoy the representatives of any corporation great or small that suffered
                        the sad compulsion of employing them. Seriously, I am not against union
                        laborers. I like them. They spell rude, blazing life. But when you have to
                        deal with them!
                    Plainly, Rourke anticipated endless rows. Their coming promised him the
                        opportunity he inmostly desired, I suppose, of once more fussing and fuming
                        with real, strong, determined and pugnacious men like himself, who would not
                        take his onslaughts tamely but would fight him back, as he wished strong men
                        to do. He was never weary of talking of them.
                    "Wait till we have thirty er forty av thim on the line," he
                        once observed to me in connection with them, "every man
                        layin' his six hundred bricks a day, er takin' aaf his
                        apron! Thim's the times ye'll see what excitement manes,
                        me b'y. Thim's the times."
                    "What'll I see, Rourke?" I asked interestedly.
                    "Throuble enough. Shewer, they're no crapin'
                        Eyetalians, that'll let ye taalk to thim as ye pl'ase.
                        Indade not. Ye'll have to fight with them fellies."
                    
                    "Well, that's a queer state of affairs," I
                        remarked, and then added, "Do you think you can handle them,
                        Rourke?"
                    "Handle thim!" he exclaimed, his glorious wrath kindling in
                        anticipation of a possible conflict. "Handle thim, an' the
                        likes av a thousand av thim! I know them aall, every waan av thim,
                        an' their thricks. It's naht foolin' me
                        they'll be. But, me b'y," he added instructively,
                        "it's a fine job ye'll have runnin' down
                        to the ahffice gettin' their time." (This is the railroad
                        man's expression for money due, or wages.) "Ye'll
                        have plenty av that to do, I'm tellin' ye."
                    "You don't mean to say that you're going to
                        discharge them, Rourke, do you?" I asked.
                    "Shewer!" he exclaimed authoritatively. "Why
                        shouldn't I? They're jist the same as other min. Why
                        shouldn't I?" Then he added, after a pause, "But
                        it's thim that'll be comin' to me askin'
                        fer their time instid av me givin' it to thim, niver fear.
                        They're not the kind that'll let ye taalk back to thim. If
                        their work don't suit ye, it's 'give me me
                        time.' Wait till they'll be comin' round half
                        drunk in the mornin', an' not feelin' just right.
                        Thim's the times ye'll find out what masons arre made av,
                        me b'y."
                    I confess this probability did not seem as brilliant to me as it did to him,
                        but it had its humor. I expressed wonder that he would hire them if they
                        were such a bad lot.
                    "Where else will ye get min?" he demanded to know.
                        "The unions have the best, an' the most av thim. Thim
                        outside fellies don't amount to much. They're aall pore,
                        crapin' creatures. If it wasn't fer the railroad
                        bein' against the union I wouldn't have thim at aall, and
                        besides," he added thoughtfully, and with a keen show of feeling
                        for their point of view, "they have a right to do as they
                        pl'ase. Shewer, it's no common workmen they arre. They can
                        lay their eight hundred bricks a day, if they will, an' no advice
                        from any waan. If ye was in their place ye'd do the same.
                        There's no sinse in 
                        allowin' another man to waalk on ye whin ye can get another job. I
                        don't blame thim. I was a mason wanst meself."
                    "You don't mean to say that you acted as you say these men
                        are going to act?"
                    "Shewer!"
                    "Well, I shouldn't think you'd be very proud of
                        it."
                    "I have me rights," he declared, flaring up. "What
                        kind av a man is it that'll let himself be waalked on?
                        There's no sinse in it. It's naht natchral. It's
                        naht intinded that it should be so."
                    "Very well," I said, smoothing the whole thing over, and so
                        that ended.
                    Well, the masons came, and a fine lot of pirates they surely were. Such
                        independence! Such defiance! Such feverish punctilio in regard to their
                        rights and what forms and procedures they were entitled to! I stared in
                        amazement. For the most part they were hale, healthy, industrious looking
                        creatures, but so obstreperously conscious of their own rights, and so proud
                        of their skill as masons, that there was no living with them. Really, they
                        would have tried the patience of a saint, let alone a healthy, contentious
                        Irish foreman-mason. "First off," as the railroad men used
                        to say, they wanted to know whether there were any non-union men on the job,
                        and if so, would they be discharged instanter?if not, no worka situation
                        which gave Rourke several splendid opportunities for altercations, which he
                        hastened to improve, although the non-union men went, of
                        course. Then they wanted to know when, where, and how they were to get their
                        money, whether on demand at any time they chose, and this led to more
                        trouble, since the railroad paid only once a month. However, this was
                        adjusted by a special arrangement being made where-by the building
                        department stood ready to pay them instantly on demand, only I had to run
                        down to the division office each time and get their pay for them at any time
                        that they came  to ask for it! Then came an
                        argument (or many of them) as to the number of bricks they were to lay an
                        hour; the number of men they were to carry on one line, or wall; the length
                        of time they were supposed to work, or had worked, or would workall of which
                        was pure food and drink to Rourke. He was in his element at last, shouting,
                        gesticulating, demanding that they leave or go to . After all these things
                        had been adjusted, however, they finally consented to go to work, and then
                        of course the work flew. It was a grand scene, really inspiringforty or
                        fifty masons on the line, perhaps half as many helpers or mixers, the
                        Italians carrying bricks, and a score of carpenters now arriving under
                        another foreman to set the beams and lay the joists as the walls rose
                        upward.
                    Rourke was about all the time now, arguing and gesticulating with this man or
                        that, fighting with this one or the other, and calling always to some mason
                        or other to "come down" and get his
                        "time." "Come down! Come down!" I would
                        hear, and then would see him rushing for the office, a defiant and even
                        threatening mason at his heels; Rourke demanding that I make out a
                        time-check at once for the latter and go down to the
                        "ahffice" and get the money, the while the mason hung
                        about attempting to seduce other men to a similar point of view. Once in a
                        while, but only on rare occasions, Rourke would patch up a truce with a man.
                        As a rule, the mason was only too eager to leave and spend the money thus
                        far earned, while Rourke was curiously indifferent as to whether he went or
                        stayed. "'Tis to drink he waants," he would
                        declare amusedly. To me it was all like a scene out of comic opera.
                    Toward the last, however, a natural calm set in, the result no doubt of
                        weariness and a sense of surfeit, which sent the building forward apace.
                        During this time Rourke was to be seen walking defiantly up and down the
                        upper scaffolding of  the steadily rising
                        walls, or down below on the ground in front of his men, his hands behind his
                        back, his face screwed into a quizzical expression, his whole body bearing a
                        look of bristling content and pugnacity which was too delicious for words.
                        Since things were going especially well he could not say much, but still he
                        could look his contentiousness, and did. Even now he would occasionally
                        manage to pick a quarrel with some lusty mason or other, which resulted in
                        the customary descent to the office, but not often.
                    But one cold December day, about three weeks later, when I was just about to
                        announce that I could no longer delay my departure, seeing that my health
                        was now as good, or nearly so, as my purse was lean, and that, whether I
                        would or no, I must arrange to make more money, that a most dreadful
                        accident occurred. It appeared that Rourke and a number of Italians,
                        including Matt and Jimmie, were down in the main room of the building, now
                        fast nearing completion, when the boiler of the hoisting engine, which had
                        been placed inside the building and just at the juncture of three walls,
                        blew up and knocked out this wall and the joists of the second and third
                        floors loose, thus precipitating all of fifteen thousand bricks, which had
                        been placed on the third floor, into this room below. For a few moments
                        there had been a veritable hurricane of bricks and falling timber; and then,
                        when it was over, it was found that the mighty Rourke and five Italians were
                        embedded in or under them, and all but Jimmie more or less seriously injured
                        or killed. Two Italians were killed outright. A third died later. Rourke, in
                        particular, was unfortunately placed and terribly injured. His body from the
                        waist down was completely buried by a pile of bricks, and across his
                        shoulder lay a great joist pressing where it had struck him, and cutting his
                        neck and ear. He was a pathetic sight when we entered, bleeding and
                        pain-wrenched yet grim and undaunted, as one might have expected.
                    
                    "I'm tight fast, me lad," he said when he could
                        speak. "It's me legs that's caught, not me body.
                        But give a hand to the min, there. The Eyetalians are underneath."
                    Disregarding his suggestion, however, we began working about him, every man
                        throwing away bricks like a machine; but he would not have it.
                    "'Tind to the min!" he insisted with all of his
                        old firmness. "The Eyetalians are under thereMatt an'
                        Jimmie. Can't ye see that I'll be all right till ye get
                        thim out? Come, look after the min!"
                    We fell to this end of the work, although by now others had arrived, and soon
                        there was a great crowd assistingmen coming from the yard and the machine
                        shop. Although embedded in this mass of material and most severely injured,
                        there was no gainsaying him, and he still insisted on directing us as best
                        he could. But now he was so picturesque, so much nobler, really, than he had
                        been in his healthier, uninjured days. A fabled giant, he seemed to me,
                        half-god, half-man, composed in part of flesh, in part of brick and stone,
                        gazing down on our earthly efforts with the eye of a demi-god.
                    "Come, nowget the j'ists from aaf the end, there. Take the
                        bricks away from that man. Can't ye see? There's where his
                        head isthere. There! Jasus Christtheyer!"
                    You would have thought we were Italians ourselves, poor wisps of nothing, not
                        his rescuers, but slaves, compelled to do his lordly bidding.
                    After a time, however, we managed to release him and all his five helperstwo
                        dead, as I say, and Matt badly cut about the head and seriously injured,
                        while Jimmie, the imperturbable, was but little the worse for a brick mark
                        on one shoulder. He was more or less frightened, of course, and comic to
                        look at, even in this dread situation. "Big-a smash," he
                        exclaimed when he recovered himself. "Like-a da worl'
                        fall. Misha Rook! Misha Rook! Where Misha Rook?"
                    
                    "Here I am, ye Eyetalian scalawag," exclaimed the
                        unyielding Rourke genially, who was still partially embedded when Jimmie was
                        released. There was, however, a touch of sorrow in his voice as he added
                        weakly, "Arre ye hurted much?"
                    "No, Misha Rook. Help Misha Rook," replied Jimmie, grabbing
                        at bricks himself, and so the rescue work of "Rook" went
                        on.
                    Finally he was released, although not without deprecating our efforts the
                        while (this wonderful and exceptional fuss over him), and exclaiming at one
                        point as we tugged at joists and beams rather frantically, "Take
                        yer time. Take yer time. I'm naht so bad fixed as aall that. Take
                        yer time. Get that board out o' the way there, Jimmie."
                    But he was badly "fixed," and "hurted"
                        unto death also, as we now found, and as he insisted he was not. His hip was
                        severely crushed by the timbers and his legs broken, as well as his internal
                        organs disarranged, although we did not know how badly at the time. Only
                        after we had removed all the weight did he collapse and perhaps personally
                        realize how serious was his plight. He was laid on a canvas tarpaulin
                        brought by the yard-master and spread on the chip-strewn ground, while the
                        doctors from two ambulances worked over him. While they were examining his
                        wounds he took a critical and quizzical interest in what they were doing,
                        and offered one or two humorous suggestions. Finally, when they were ready
                        to move him he asked how he was, and on being told that he was all right,
                        looked curiously about until he caught my eye. I could see that he realized
                        how critical it was with him.
                    "I'd like to see a priest, Teddy," he whispered,
                        "and, if ye don't mind, I'd like ye to go up to
                        Mount Vernon an' tell me wife. They'll be after
                        telegraphin' her if ye don't. Break it aisy, if ye will.
                        Don't let 'er think there's anything serious.
                        There's no need av it. I'm naht hurted so bad as aall
                        that."
                    
                    I promised, and the next moment one of the doctors shot a spray of cocaine
                        into his hip to relieve what he knew must be his dreadful pain. A few
                        moments later he lost consciousness, after which I left him to the care of
                        the hospital authorities and hurried away to send the priest and to tell his
                        wife.
                    For a week thereafter he lingered in a very serious condition and finally
                        died, blood-poisoning having set in. I saw him at the hospital a day or two
                        before, and, trying to sympathize with his condition, I frequently spoke of
                        what I deemed the dreadful uncertainty of life and the seeming carelessness
                        of the engineer in charge of the hoisting engine. He, however, had no
                        complaint to make.
                    "Ye must expect thim things," was his only comment.
                        "Ye can't aalways expect to go unhurted. I niver lost a
                        man before, nor had one come to haarm. 'Tis the way av things, ye
                        see."
                    Mighty Rourke! You would have thought the whole Italian population of Mount
                        Vernon knew and loved him, the way they turned out at his funeral. It was a
                        state affair for most of them, and they came in scores, packing the little
                        brick church at which he was accustomed to worship full to overflowing. Matt
                        was there, bandaged and sore, but sorrowful; and Jimmie, artful and scheming
                        in the past, but now thoroughly subdued. He was all sorrow, and sniveled and
                        blubbered and wept hot, blinding tears through the dark, leathery fingers of
                        his hands.
                    "Misha Rook! Misha Rook!" I heard him say, as they bore the
                        body in; and when they carried it out of the church, he followed, head down.
                        As they lowered it to the grave he was inconsolable.
                    "Misha Rook! Misha Rook! I work-a for him fifteen
                    year!"
                
                
                
                    A MAYOR AND HIS PEOPLE
                    HERE is the story of an individual whose political and
                        social example, if such things are ever worth anything (the moralists to the
                        contrary notwithstanding), should have been, at the time, of the greatest
                        importance to every citizen of the United States. Only it was not. Or was
                        it? Who really knows? Anyway, he and his career are entirely forgotten by
                        now, and have been these many years.
                    He was the mayor of one of those dreary New England mill towns in northern
                        Massachusettsa bleak, pleasureless realm of about forty thousand, where,
                        from the time he was born until he finally left at the age of thirty-six to
                        seek his fortune elsewhere, he had resided without change. During that time
                        he had worked in various of the local mills, which in one way and another
                        involved nearly all of the population. He was a mill shoe-maker by trade,
                        or, in other words, a factory shoehand, knowing only a part of all the
                        processes necessary to make a shoe in that fashion. Still, he was a fair
                        workman, and earned as much as fifteen or eighteen dollars a week at
                        timesrather good pay for that region. By temperament a humanitarian, or
                        possibly because of his own humble state one who was compelled to take
                        cognizance of the difficulties of others, he finally expressed his mental
                        unrest by organizing a club for the study and propagation of socialism, and
                        later, when it became powerful enough to have a candidate and look for
                        political expression of some kind, he was its first, and thereafter for a
                        number of years, its regular candidate for mayor. For a long time, or until
                        its membership became sufficient to  attract
                        some slight political attention, its members (following our regular
                        American, unintellectual custom) were looked upon by the rest of the people
                        as a body of harmless kickers, filled with fool notions about a
                        man's duty to his fellowman, some silly dream about an honest and
                        economical administration of public affairstheir city's affairs, to
                        be exact. We are so wise in America, so interested in our fellowman, so
                        regardful of his welfare. They were so small in number, however, that they
                        were little more than an object of pleasant jest, useful for that purpose
                        alone.
                    This club, however, continued to put up its candidate until about 1895, when
                        suddenly it succeeded in polling the very modest number of fifty-four
                        votesdouble the number it had succeeded in polling any previous year. A year
                        later one hundred and thirty-six were registered, and the next year six
                        hundred. Then suddenly the mayor who won that year's battle died,
                        and a special election was called. Here the club polled six hundred and one,
                        a total and astonishing gain of one. In 1898 the perennial candidate was
                        again nominated and received fifteen hundred, and in 1899, when he ran
                        again, twenty-three hundred votes, which elected him.
                    If this fact be registered casually here, it was not so regarded in that
                        typically New England mill town. Ever study New Englandits Puritan,
                        self-defensive, but unintellectual and selfish psychology? Although this
                        poor little snip of a mayor was only elected for one year, men paused as
                        tounded, those who had not voted for him, and several of the older
                        conventional political and religious order, wedded to their church and all
                        the routine of the average puritanic mill town, actually cried. No one knew,
                        of course, who the new mayor was, or what he stood for. There were open
                        assertions that the club behind him was anarchisticthat ever-ready charge
                        against anything new in Americaand that the courts should be called upon to
                        prevent his being seated. And this from 
                        people who were as poorly "off" commercially and socially
                        as any might well be. It was stated, as proving the worst, that he was, or
                        had been, a mill worker!and, before that a grocery clerkboth at twelve a
                        week, or less!! Immediate division of property, the forcing of all employers
                        to pay as much as five a day to every laborer (an unheard-of sum in New
                        England), and general constraint and subversion of individual rights (things
                        then unknown in America, of course), loomed in the minds of these
                        conventional Americans as the natural and immediate result of so modest a
                        victory. The old-time politicians and corporations who understood much
                        better what the point was, the significance of this straw, were more or less
                        disgruntled, but satisfied that it could be undone later.
                    An actual conversation which occurred on one of the outlying street corners
                        one evening about dusk will best illustrate the entire situation.
                    "Who is the man, anyway?" asked one citizen of a total
                        stranger whom he had chanced to meet.
                    "Oh, no one in particular, I think. A grocery clerk, they
                        say."
                    "Astonishing, isn't it? Why, I never thought those people
                        would get anything. Why, they didn't even figure last
                        year."
                    "Seems to be considerable doubt as to just what he'll
                        do."
                    "That's what I've been wondering. I don't
                        take much stock in all their talk about anarchy. A man hasn't so
                        very much power as mayor."
                    "No," said the other.
                    "We ought to give him a trial, anyway. He's won a big
                        fight. I should like to see him, see what he looks like."
                    "Oh, nothing startling. I know him."
                    "Rather young, ain't he?"
                    "Yes."
                    "Where did he come from?"
                    "Oh, right around here."
                    
                    "Was he a mill-hand?"
                    "Yes."
                    The stranger made inquiry as to other facts and then turned off at a corner.
                    "Well," he observed at parting, "I don't
                        know. I'm inclined to believe in the man. I should like to see him
                        myself. Goodnight."
                    "Good-night," said the other, waving his hand.
                        "When you see me again you will know that you are looking at the
                        mayor."
                    The inquirer stared after him and saw a six-foot citizen, of otherwise medium
                        proportions, whose long, youthful face and mild gray eyes, with just a
                        suggestion of washed-out blue in them, were hardly what was to be expected
                        of a notorious and otherwise astounding political figure.
                    "He is too young," was the earliest comments, when the
                        public once became aware of his personality.
                    "Why, he is nothing but a grocery clerk," was another, the
                        skeptical and condemnatory possibilities of which need not be dilated upon
                        here.
                    And he was, in his waynothing much of a genius, as such things go in
                        politics, but an interesting figure. Without much taste (or its cultivated
                        shadow) or great vision of any kind, he was still a man who sensed the evils
                        of great and often unnecessary social inequalities and the need of
                        reorganizing influences, which would tend to narrow the vast gulf between
                        the unorganized and ignorant poor, and the huge beneficiaries of unearned
                        (yes, and not even understood) increment. For what does the economic wisdom
                        of the average capitalist amount to, after all: the narrow, gourmandizing
                        hunger of the average multi-millionaire?
                    At any rate, people watched him as he went to and fro between his office and
                        his home, and reached the general con  clusion
                        after the first excitement had died down that he did not amount to much.
                    When introduced into his office in the small but pleasant city hall, he came
                        into contact with a "ring," and a fixed condition, which
                        nobody imagined a lone young mayor could change. Old-time politicians sat
                        there giving out contracts for street-cleaning, lighting, improvements and
                        supplies of all kinds, and a bond of mutual profit bound them closely
                        together.
                    "I don't think he can do much to hurt us," these
                        individuals said one to another. "He don't amount to
                        much."
                    The mayor was not of a talkative or confiding turn. Neither was he cold or
                        wanting in good and natural manners. He was, however, of a preoccupied turn
                        of mind, "up in the air," some called it, and smoked a
                        good many cigars.
                    "I think we ought to get together and have some sort of a conference
                        about the letting of contracts," said the president of the city
                        council to him one morning shortly after he had been installed.
                        "You will find these gentlemen ready to meet you half-way in these
                        matters."
                    "I'm very glad to hear that," he replied.
                        "I've something to say in my message to the council, which
                        I'll send over in the morning."
                    The old-time politician eyed him curiously, and he eyed the old-time
                        politician in turn, not aggressively, but as if they might come to a very
                        pleasant understanding if they wanted to, and then went back to his office.
                    The next day his message was made public, and this was its key-note:
                    "All contract work for the city should be let with a proviso, that
                        the workmen employed receive not less than two dollars a day."
                    The dissatisfied roar that followed was not long in making itself heard all
                        over the city.
                    
                    "Stuff and nonsense," yelled the office jobbers in a
                        chorus. "Socialism!" "Anarchy!"
                        "This thing must be put down!" "The city would be
                        bankrupt in a year." "No contractor could afford to pay
                        his ordinary day laborers two a day. The city could not afford to pay any
                        contractor enough to do it."
                    "The prosperity of the city is not greater than the prosperity of
                        the largest number of its component individuals," replied the
                        mayor, in a somewhat altruistic and economically abstruse argument on the
                        floor of the council hall. "We must find contractors."
                    "We'll see about that," said the members of the
                        opposition. "Why, the man's crazy. If he thinks he can run
                        this town on a goody-good basis and make everybody rich and happy,
                        he's going to get badly fooled, that's all there is to
                        that."
                    Fortunately for him three of the eight council members were fellows of the
                        mayor's own economic beliefs, individuals elected on the same
                        ticket with him. These men could not carry a resolution, but they could stop
                        one from being carried over the mayor's veto. Hence it was found
                        that if the contracts could not be given to men satisfactory to the mayor
                        they could not be given at all, and he stood in a fair way to win.
                    "What the hell's the use of us sitting here day after
                        day!" were the actual words of the leading members of the
                        opposition in the council some weeks later, when the fight became wearisome.
                        "We can't pass the contracts over his veto. I say let
                        'em go."
                    So the proviso was tacked on, that two a day was the minimum wage to be
                        allowed, and the contracts passed.
                    The mayor's followers were exceedingly jubilant at this, more so
                        than he, who was of a more cautious and less hopeful temperament.
                    "Not out of the woods yet, gentlemen," he remarked to a
                        group of his adherents at the reform club. "We have to do a  great many things sensibly if we expect to
                        keep the people's confidence and 'win
                        again.'"
                    Under the old system of letting contracts, whenever there was a wage rate
                        stipulated, men were paid little or nothing, and the work was not done.
                        There was no pretense of doing it. Garbage and ashes accumulated, and papers
                        littered the streets. The old contractor who had pocketed the appropriated
                        sum thought to do so again.
                    "I hear the citizens are complaining as much as ever," said
                        the mayor to this individual one morning. "You will have to keep
                        the streets clean."
                    The contractor, a robust, thick-necked, heavy-jawed Irishman, of just so much
                        refinement as the sudden acquisition of a comfortable fortune would allow,
                        looked him quizzically over, wondering whether he was
                        "out" for a portion of the appropriation or whether he was
                        really serious.
                    "We can fix that between us," he said.
                    "There's nothing to fix," replied the mayor.
                        "All I want you to do is to clean the streets."
                    The contractor went away and for a few days after the streets were really
                        clean, but it was only for a few days.
                    In his walks about the city the mayor himself found garbage and paper
                        uncollected, and then called upon his new acquaintance again.
                    "I'm mentioning this for the last time, Mr. M," he
                        said. "You will have to fulfill your contract, or resign in favor
                        of some one who will."
                    "Oh, I'll clean them, well enough," said this
                        individual, after five minutes of rapid fire explanation. "Two
                        dollars a day for men is high, but I'll see that they're
                        clean."
                    Again he went away, and again the mayor sauntered about, and then one morning
                        sought out the contractor in his own office.
                    "This is the end," he said, removing a cigar from his mouth
                             and holding it before him with his elbow
                        at right angles. "You are discharged from this work. I'll
                        notify you officially tomorrow."
                    "It can't be done the way you want it," the
                        contractor exclaimed with an oath. "There's no money in it
                        at two dollars. Hell, anybody can see that."
                    "Very well," said the mayor in a kindly well-modulated
                        tone. "Let another man try, then."
                    The next day he appointed a new contractor, and with a schedule before him
                        showing how many men should be employed and how much profit he might expect,
                        the latter succeeded. The garbage was daily removed, and the streets
                        carefully cleaned.
                    Then there was a new manual training school about to be added to the public
                        school system at this time, and the contract for building was to be let,
                        when the mayor threw a bomb into the midst of the old-time jobbers at the
                        city council. A contractor had already been chosen by them and the members
                        were figuring out their profits, when at one of the public discussions of
                        the subject the mayor said:
                    "Why shouldn't the city build it, gentlemen?"
                    "How can it?" exclaimed the councilmen. "The city
                        isn't an individual; it can't watch carefully."
                    "It can hire its own architect, as well as any contractor
                        Let's try it."
                    There were sullen tempers in the council chamber after this, but the mayor
                        was insistent. He called an architect who made a ridiculously low estimate.
                        Never had a public building been estimated so cheaply before.
                    "See here," said one of the councilmen when the plans were
                        presented to the chamber"This isn't doing this city right,
                        and the gentlemen of the council ought to put their feet down on any such
                        venture as this. You're going to waste the city's money on
                        some cheap thing in order to catch votes."
                    
                    "I'll publish the cost of the goods as delivered,"
                        said the mayor. "Then the people can look at the building when
                        it's built. We'll see how cheap it looks then."
                    To head off political trickery on the part of the enemy he secured bills for
                        material as delivered, and publicly compared them with prices paid for
                        similar amounts of the same material used in other buildings. So the public
                        was kept aware of what was going on and the cry of cheapness for political
                        purposes set at naught. It was the first public structure erected by the
                        city, and by all means the cheapest and best of all the city's
                        buildings.
                    Excellent as these services were in their way, the mayor realized later that
                        a powerful opposition was being generated and that if he were to retain the
                        interest of his constituents he would have to set about something which
                        would endear him and his cause to the public.
                    "I may be honest," he told one of his friends,
                        "but honesty will play a lone hand with these people. The public
                        isn't interested in its own welfare very much. It can't be
                        bothered or hasn't the time. What I need is something that will
                        impress it and still be worth while. I can't be relected on
                        promises, or on my looks, either."
                    When he looked about him, however, he found the possibility of independent
                        municipal action pretty well hampered by mandatory legislation. He had
                        promised, for instance, to do all he could to lower the exorbitant gas rate
                        and to abolish grade crossings, but the law said that no municipality could
                        do either of these things without first voting to do so three years in
                        successiona little precaution taken by the corporation representing such
                        things long before he came into power. Each vote must be for such
                        contemplated action, or it could not become a law.
                    "I know well enough that promises are all right," he said
                        to one of his friends, "and that these laws are good enough  excuses, but the public won't take
                        excuses from me for three years. If I want to be mayor again I want to be
                        doing something, and doing it quick."
                    In the city was a gas corporation, originally capitalized at $45,000, and
                        subsequently increased to $75,000, which was earning that year the actual
                        sum of $58,000 over and above all expenses. It was getting ready to inflate
                        the capitalization, as usual, and water its stock to the extent of $500,000
                        when it occurred to the mayor that if the corporation was making such
                        enormous profits out of a $75,000 investment as to be able to offer to pay
                        six per cent on $500,000 to investors, and put the money it would get for
                        such stocks into its pocket, perhaps it could reduce the price of gas from
                        one dollar and nineteen cents to a more reasonable figure. There was the
                        three years' voting law, however, behind which, as behind an
                        entrenchment, the very luxurious corporation lay comfortable and
                        indifferent.
                    The mayor sent for his corporation counsel, and studied gas law for awhile.
                        He found that at the State capital there was a State board, or commission,
                        which had been created to look after gas companies in general, and to hear
                        the complaints of municipalities which considered themselves unjustly
                        treated.
                    "This is the thing for me," he said.
                    Lacking the municipal authority himself, he decided to present the facts in
                        the case and appeal to this commission for a reduction of the gas rate.
                    When he came to talk about it he found that the opposition he would generate
                        would be something much more than local. Back of the local reduction idea
                        was the whole system of extortionate gas rates of the State and of the
                        nation; hundreds of fat, luxurious gas corporations whose dividends would be
                        threatened by any agitation on this question.
                    "You mean to proceed with this scheme of yours?" asked a
                        prominent member of the local bar who called one morning  to interview him. "I represent the
                        gentlemen who are interested in our local gas company."
                    "I certainly do," replied the mayor.
                    "Well," replied the uncredentialed representative of
                        private interests, after expostulating a long time and offering various
                        "reasons" why it would be more profitable and politically
                        advantageous for the new mayor not to proceed, "I've said
                        all I can say. Now I want to tell you that you are going up against a
                        combination that will be your ruin. You're not dealing with this
                        town now; you're dealing with the State, the whole nation. These
                        corporations can't afford to let you win and they won't.
                        You're not the one to do it; you're not big
                        enough."
                    The mayor smiled and replied that of course he could not say as to that.
                    The lawyer went away, and that next day the mayor had his legal counsel look
                        up the annual reports of the company for the consecutive years of its
                        existence, as well as a bulletin issued by a firm of brokers, into whose
                        hands the matter of selling a vast amount of watered stock it proposed to
                        issue had been placed. He also sent for a gas expert and set him to figuring
                        out a case for the people.
                    It was found by this gentleman that since the company was first organized it
                        had paid dividends on its capital stock at the rate of ten per cent per
                        annum, for the first thirty years; had made vast improvements in the last
                        ten, and notwithstanding this fact, had paid twenty per cent, and even
                        twenty-five per cent per annum in dividends. All the details of cost and
                        expenditure were figured out, and then the mayor with his counsel took the
                        train for the State capitol.
                    Never was there more excitement in political circles than when this young
                        representative of no important political organization whatsoever arrived at
                        the State capitol and walked, at the appointed time, into the private
                        audience room of  the commission. Every gas
                        company, as well as every newspaper and every other representative of the
                        people, had curiously enough become interested in the fight he was making,
                        and there was a band of reporters at the hotel where he was stopping, as
                        well as in the commission chambers in the State capitol where the hearing
                        was to be. They wanted to know about himwhy he was doing this, whether it
                        wasn't a "strike" or the work of some rival
                        corporation. The fact that he might foolishly be sincere was hard to
                        believe.
                    "Gentlemen," said the mayor, as he took his stand in front
                        of an august array of legal talent which was waiting to pick his argument to
                        pieces in the commission chambers at the capitol, "I miscalculated
                        but one thing in this case which I am about to lay before you, and that is
                        the extent of public interest. I came here prepared to make a private
                        argument, but now I want to ask the privilege of making it public. I see the
                        public itself is interested, or should be. I will ask leave to postpone my
                        argument until the day after tomorrow."
                    There was considerable hemming and hawing over this, since from the point of
                        view of the corporation it was most undesirable, but the commission was
                        practically powerless to do aught but grant his request. And meanwhile the
                        interest created by the newspapers added power to his cause. Hunting up the
                        several representatives and senators from his district, he compelled them to
                        take cognizance of the cause for which he was battling, and when the morning
                        of the public hearing arrived a large audience was assembled in the chamber
                        of representatives.
                    When the final moment arrived the young mayor came forward, and after making
                        a very simple statement of the cause which led him to request a public
                        hearing and the local condition which he considered unfair begged leave to
                        introduce an expert, a national examiner of gas plants and lighting
                        facilities, for whom he had sent, and whose twenty years of experi  ence in this line had enabled him to prepare
                        a paper on the condition of the gas-payers in the mayor's city.
                    The commission was not a little surprised by this, but signified its
                        willingness to hear the expert as counsel for the city, and as his statement
                        was read a very clear light was thrown upon the situation.
                    Counsel for the various gas corporations interrupted freely, The mayor
                        himself was constantly drawn into the argument, but his replies were so
                        simple and convincing that there was not much satisfaction to be had in
                        stirring him. Instead, the various counsel took refuge in long-winded
                        discussions about the methods of conducting gas plants in other cities, the
                        cost of machinery, labor and the like, which took days and days, and
                        threatened to extend into weeks. The astounding facts concerning large
                        profits and the present intentions of not only this but every other company
                        in the State could not be dismissed. In fact the revelation of huge
                        corporation profits everywhere became so disturbing that after the committee
                        had considered and re-considered, it finally, when threatened with political
                        extermination, voted to reduce the price of gas to eighty cents.
                    It is needless to suggest the local influence of this decision. When the
                        mayor came home he received an ovation, and that at the hands of many of the
                        people who had once been so fearful of him, but he knew that this enthusiasm
                        would not last long. Many disgruntled elements were warring against him, and
                        others were being more and more stirred up. His home life was looked into as
                        well as his past, his least childish or private actions. It was a case of
                        finding other opportunities for public usefulness, or falling into the
                        innocuous peace which would result in his defeat.
                    In the platform on which he had been elected was a plank which declared that
                        it was the intention of this party, if elected, to abolish local grade
                        crossings, the maintenance of  which had been
                        the cause of numerous accidents and much public complaint. With this plank
                        he now proposed to deal.
                    In this of course he was hampered by the law before mentioned, which declared
                        that no city could abolish its grade crossings without having first
                        submitted the matter to the people during three successive years and
                        obtained their approval each time. Behind this law was not now, however, as
                        in the case of the gas company, a small $500,000 corporation, but all the
                        railroads which controlled New England, and to which brains and legislators,
                        courts and juries, were mere adjuncts. Furthermore, the question would have
                        to be voted on at the same time as his candidacy, and this would have
                        deterred many another more ambitious politician. The mayor was not to be
                        deterred, however. He began his agitation, and the enemy began theirs, but
                        in the midst of what seemed to be a fair battle the great railway company
                        endeavored to steal a march. There was suddenly and secretly introduced into
                        the lower house of the State legislature a bill which in deceptive
                        phraseology declared that the law which allowed all cities, by three
                        successive votes, to abolish grade crossings in three years, was, in the
                        case of a particular city mentioned, hereby abrogated for a term of four
                        years. The question might not even be discussed politically.
                    When the news of this attempt reached the mayor, he took the first train for
                        the State capitol and arrived there just in time to come upon the floor of
                        the house when the bill was being taken up for discussion. He asked leave to
                        make a statement. Great excitement was aroused by his timely arrival. Those
                        who secretly favored the bill endeavored to have the matter referred to a
                        committee, but this was not to be. One member moved to go on with the
                        consideration of the bill, and after a close vote the motion carried.
                    The mayor was then introduced.
                    After a few moments, in which the silent self-communing  with which he introduced himself impressed everyone with his
                        sincerity, he said:
                    "I am accused of objecting to this measure because its enactment
                        will remove, as a political issue, the one cause upon which I base my hope
                        for relection. If there are no elevated crossings to vote for, there will be
                        no excuse for voting for me. Gentlemen, you mistake the temper and the
                        intellect of the people of our city. It is you who see political
                        significance in this thing, but let me assure you that it is of a far
                        different kind from that which you conceive. If the passing of this measure
                        had any significance to me other than the apparent wrong of it, I would get
                        down on my knees and urge its immediate acceptance. Nothing could elect me
                        quicker. Nothing could bury the opposition further from view. If you wish
                        above all things to accomplish my triumph you will only need to interfere
                        with the rights of our city in this arbitrary manner, and you will have the
                        thing done. I could absolutely ask nothing more."
                    The gentlemen who had this measure in charge weighed well these assertions
                        and trifled for weeks with the matter, trying to make up their minds.
                    Meanwhile election time approached, and amid the growing interest of politics
                        it was thought unwise to deal with it. A great fight was arranged for
                        locally, in which every conceivable element of opposition was beautifully
                        harmonized by forces and conceptions which it is almost impossible to
                        explain. Democrats, republicans, prohibitionists, saloon men and religious
                        circles, all were gathered into one harmonious body and inspired with a
                        single idea, that of defeating the mayor. From some quarter, not exactly
                        identified, was issued a call for a civic committee of fifty, which should
                        take into its hands the duty of rescuing the city from what was termed a
                        "throttling policy of commercial oppression and anarchy."
                        Democrats, republicans, liquor and anti-liquorites, were invited  to the same central meeting place, and came.
                        Money was not lacking, nor able minds, to prepare campaign literature. It
                        was openly charged that a blank check was handed in to the chairman of this
                        body by the railway whose crossings were in danger, to be filled out for any
                        amount necessary to the destruction of the official upstart who was seeking
                        to revolutionize old methods and conditions.
                    As may be expected, this opposition did not lack daring in making assertions
                        contrary to facts. Charges were now made that the mayor was in league with
                        the railroad to foist upon the city a great burden of expense, because the
                        law under which cities could compel railroads to elevate their tracks
                        declared that one-fifth of the burden of expense must be borne by the city
                        and the remaining four-fifths by the railroad. It would saddle a debt of
                        $250,000 upon the taxpayers, they said, and give them little in return. All
                        the advantage would be with the railroad. "Postpone this action
                        until the railroad can be forced to bear the entire expense, as it justly
                        should," declared handbill writers, whose services were readily
                        rendered to those who could afford to pay for them.
                    The mayor and his committee, although poor, answered with handbills and
                        street corner speeches, in which he showed that even with the extravagantly
                        estimated debt of $250,000, the city's tax-rate would not be
                        increased by quite six cents to the individual. The cry that each man would
                        have to pay five dollars more each year for ten years and thus whole-somely
                        disposed of, and the campaign proceeded.
                    Now came every conceivable sort of charge. If he were not defeated, all
                        reputable merchants would surely leave the city. Capital was certainly being
                        scared off. There would be idle factories and empty stomachs. Look out for
                        hard times. No one but a fool would invest in a city thus hampered.
                    In reply the mayor preached a fair return by corporations for  benefits received. He, or rather his
                        organization, took a door-to-door census of his following, and discovered a
                        very considerable increase in the number of those intending to vote for him.
                        The closest calculations of the enemy were discovered, the actual number
                        they had fixed upon as sufficient to defeat him. This proved to the mayor
                        that he must have three hundred more votes if he wished to be absolutely
                        sure. These he hunted out from among the enemy, and had them pledged before
                        the eventual morning came.
                    The night preceding election ended the campaign, for the enemy at least, in a
                        blaze of glory, so to speak. Dozens of speakers for both causes were about
                        the street corners and in the city meeting room.
                    Oratory poured forth in streams, and gasoline-lighted band-wagons rattled
                        from street to street, emitting song and invective. Even a great parade was
                        arranged by the anti-mayoral forces, in which horses and men to the number
                        of hundreds were brought in from nearby cities and palmed off as
                        enthusiastic citizens.
                    "Horses don't vote," a watchword handed out by the
                        mayor, took the edge off the extreme ardor of this invading throng, and set
                        to laughing the hundreds of his partisans, who needed such encouragement.
                    Next day came the vote, and then for once, anyhow, he was justified. Not only
                        was a much larger vote cast than ever, but he thrashed the enemy with a tail
                        of two hundred votes to spare. It was an inspiring victory from one point of
                        view, but rather doleful for the enemy. The latter had imported a car-load
                        of fireworks, which now stood sadly unused upon the very tracks which,
                        apparently, must in the future be raised. The crowning insult was offered
                        when the successful forces offered to take them off their hands at half
                        price.
                    For a year thereafter (a mayor was elected yearly there), less was heard of
                        the commercial destruction of the city. Gas 
                        stood, as decided, at eighty cents a thousand. A new manual training school,
                        built at a very nominal cost, a monument to municipal honesty, was also in
                        evidence. The public water-works had also been enlarged and the rates
                        reduced. The streets were clean.
                    Then the mayor made another innovation. During his first term of office there
                        had been a weekly meeting of the reform club, at which he appeared and
                        talked freely of his plans and difficulties. These meetings he now proposed
                        to make public.
                    Every Wednesday evening for a year thereafter a spectacle of municipal
                        self-consciousness was witnessed, which those who saw it felt sure would
                        redound to the greater strength and popularity of the mayor. In a large
                        hall, devoted to public gatherings, a municipal meeting was held. Every one
                        was invited. The mayor was both host and guest, an individual who chose to
                        explain his conduct and his difficulties and to ask advice. There his
                        constituents gathered, not only to hear but to offer counsel.
                    "Gentlemen," so ran the gist of his remarks on various of
                        these occasions, "the present week has proved a most trying, one. I
                        am confronted by a number of difficult problems, which I will now try to
                        explain to you. In the first place, you know my limitations as to power in
                        the council. But three members now vote for me, and it is only by mutual
                        concessions that we move forward at all."
                    Then would follow a detailed statement of the difficulties, and a general
                        discussion. The commonest laborer was free to offer his advice. Every
                        question was answered in the broadest spirit of fellowship. An inquiry as to
                        "what to do" frequently brought the most helpful advice.
                        Weak and impossible solutions were met as such, and shown to be what they
                        were. Radicals were assuaged, conservatives urged forward. The whole
                        political situation was so detailed and explained  that no intelligent person could leave, it was thought, with a
                        false impression of the mayor's position or intent.
                    With five thousand or more such associated citizens abroad each day
                        explaining, defending, approving the official conduct of the mayor, because
                        they understood it, no misleading conceptions, it was thought, could arise.
                        Men said that his purpose and current leaning in any matter was always
                        clear. He was thought to be closer to his constituency than any other
                        official within the whole range of the Americas and that there could be
                        nothing but unreasoning partisan opposition to his rule.
                    After one year of such service a presidential campaign drew near, and the
                        mayor's campaign for relection had to be contested at the same
                        time. No gas monopoly evil was now a subject of contention. Streets were
                        clean, contracts fairly executed; the general municipal interests as
                        satisfactorily attended to as could be expected. Only the grade crossing war
                        remained as an issue, and that would require still another vote after this.
                        His record was the only available campaign argument.
                    On the other side, however, were the two organizations of the locally
                        defeated great parties, and the railroad. The latter, insistent in its
                        bitterness, now organized these two bodies into a powerful opposition.
                        Newspapers were subsidized; the national significance of the campaign
                        magnified; a large number of railroad-hands colonized. When the final weeks
                        of the campaign arrived a bitter contest was waged, and money triumphed.
                        Five thousand four hundred votes were cast for the mayor. Five thousand four
                        hundred and fifty for the opposing candidate, who was of the same party as
                        the successful presidential nominee.
                    It was a bitter blow, but still one easily borne by the mayor, who was
                        considerable of a philosopher. With simple, 
                        undisturbed grace he retired, and three days later applied to one of the
                        principal shoe factories for work at his trade.
                    "What? You're not looking for a job, are you?"
                        exclaimed the astonished foreman.
                    "I am," said the mayor.
                    "You can go to work, all right, but I should think you could get
                        into something better now."
                    "I suppose I can later," he replied, "when I
                        complete my law studies. Just now I want to do this for a change, to see how
                        things are with the rank and file." And donning the apron he had
                        brought with him he went to work.
                    It was not long, however, before he was discharged, largely because of
                        partisan influence anxious to drive him out of that region. It was said that
                        this move of seeking a job in so simple a way was a bit of "grand
                        standing"insincerethat he didn't need to do it, and that
                        he was trying to pile up political capital against the future. A little
                        later a local grocery man of his social faith offered him a position as
                        clerk, and for some odd reasonhumanitarian and sectarian, possiblyhe
                        accepted this. At any rate, here he labored for a little while. Again many
                        said he was attempting to make political capital out of this simple life in
                        order to further his political interests later, and this possibly, even
                        probably, was true. All men have methods of fighting for that which they
                        believe. So here he worked for a time, while a large number of agencies pro
                        and con continued to denounce or praise him, to ridicule or extol his
                        so-called Jeffersonian simplicity. It was at this time that I encountered
                        hima tall, spare, capable and interesting individual, who willingly took me
                        into his confidence and explained all that had hitherto befallen him. He was
                        most interesting, really, a figure to commemorate in this fashion.
                    In one of the rooms of his very humble homea kind of office or den, in a
                        small house such as any clerk or workingman 
                        might occupywas a collection of clippings, laudatory, inquiring, and
                        abusive, which would have done credit to a candidate for the highest office
                        in the land. One would have judged by the scrap-books and envelopes stuffed
                        to over-flowing with long newspaper articles and editorials that had been
                        cut from papers all over the country from Florida to Oregon, that his every
                        movement at this time and earlier was all-essential to the people. Plainly,
                        he had been watched, spied upon, and ignored by one class, while being
                        hailed, praised and invited by another. Magazine editors had called upon him
                        for contributions, journalists from the large cities had sought him out to
                        obtain his actual views, citizens' leagues in various parts of the
                        nation had invited him to come and speak, and yet he was still a very young
                        man in years, not over-intelligent politically or philosophically, the
                        ex-mayor of a small city, and the representative of no great organization of
                        any sort.
                    In his retirement he was now comforted, if one can be so comforted, by these
                        memories, still fresh in his mind and by the hope possibly for his own
                        future, as well as by a droll humor with which he was wont to select the
                        sharpest and most willful slur upon his unimpeachable conduct as an offering
                        to public curiosity.
                    "Do you really want to know what people think of me?" he
                        said to me on one occasion. "Well, here's something. Read
                        this." And then he would hand me a bunch of the bitterest attacks
                        possible, attacks which pictured him as a sly and treacherous enemy of the
                        peopleor worse yet a bounding anarchistic ignoramus. Personally I could not
                        help admiring his stoic mood. It was superior to that of his detractors.
                        Apparent falsehoods did not anger him. Evident misunderstandings could not,
                        seemingly, disturb him.
                    "What do you expect?" he once said to me, after I had made
                        a very careful study of his career for a current magazine,  which, curiously, was never published. I was
                        trying to get him to admit that he believed that his example might be
                        fruitful of results agreeable to him in the future. I could not conclude
                        that he really agreed with me. "People do not remember; they
                        forget. They remember so long as you are directly before them with something
                        that interests them. That may be a lower gas-rate, or a band that plays good
                        music. People like strong people, and only strong people, characters of that
                        sortgood, bad or indifferentI've found that out. If a man or a
                        corporation is stronger than I am, comes along and denounces me, or spends
                        more money than I do (or can), buys more beers, makes larger promises, it is
                        "all day" for me. What has happened in my case is that,
                        for the present, anyhow, I have come up against a strong corporation,
                        stronger than I am. What I now need to do is to go out somewhere and get
                        some more strength in some way, it doesn't matter much how. People
                        are not so much interested in me or you, or your or my ideals in their
                        behalf, as they are in strength, an interesting spectacle. And they are
                        easily deceived. These big fighting corporations with their attorneys and
                        politicians and newspapers make me look weakpuny. So the people forget me.
                        If I could get out, raise one million or five hundred thousand dollars and
                        give the corporations a good drubbing, they would adore mefor awhile. Then I
                        would have to go out and get another five hundred thousand somewhere, or do
                        something else."
                    "Quite so," I replied. "Yet Vox
                            populi, vox dei."
                    
                    Sitting upon his own doorstep one evening, in a very modest quarter of the
                        city, I said:
                    "Were you very much depressed by your defeat the last
                        time?"
                    "Not at all," he replied. "Action, reaction,
                        that's the law. All these things right themselves in time, I
                        suppose, or, anyhow, they ought to. Maybe they don't. Some man who
                        can  hand the people what they really need or
                        ought to have will triumph, I suppose, some time. I don't know,
                        I'm sure. I hope so. I think the world is moving on, all
                        right."
                    In his serene and youthful face, the pale blue, philosophical eyes, was no
                        evidence of dissatisfaction with the strange experiences through which he
                        had passed.
                    "You're entirely philosophical, are you?"
                    "As much as any one can be, I suppose. They seem to think that all
                        my work was an evidence of my worthlessness," he said.
                        "Well, maybe it was. Self-interest may be the true law, and the
                        best force. I haven't quite made up my mind yet. My sympathies of
                        course are all the other way. 'He ought to be sewing shoes in the
                        penitentiary,' one paper once said of me. Another advised me to try
                        something that was not above my intelligence, such as breaking rock or
                        shoveling dirt. Most of them agreed, however," he added with a
                        humorous twitch of his large, expressive mouth, "that I'll
                        do very well if I will only stay where I am, or, better yet, get out of
                        here. They want me to leave. That's the best solution for
                        them."
                    He seemed to repress a smile that was hovering on his lips.
                    "The voice of the enemy," I commented.
                    "Yes, sir, the voice of the enemy," he added. "But
                        don't think that I think I'm done for. Not at all. I have
                        just returned to my old ways in order to think this thing out. In a year or
                        two I'll have solved my problem, I hope. I may have to leave here,
                        and I may not. Anyhow, I'll turn up somewhere, with
                        something."
                    He did have to leave, however, public opinion never being allowed to revert
                        to him again, and five years later, in a fairly comfortable managerial
                        position in New York, he died. He had made a fight, well enough, but the
                        time, the place, the stars, perhaps, were not quite right. He had no guiding
                        genius, possibly, to pull him through. Adherents did not  flock to him and save him. Possibly he
                        wasn't magnetic enoughthat pagan, non-moral, non-propagandistic
                        quality, anyhow. The fates did not fight for him as they do for some, those
                        fates that ignore the billions and billions of others who fail. Yet are not
                        all lives more or less failures, however successful they may appear to be at
                        one time or another, contrasted, let us say, with what they hoped for? We
                        compromise so much with everythingour dreams and all.
                    As for his reforms, they may be coming fast enough, or they may not. In medias res.
                    
                    But as for him . . .?
                
                
                
                    W. L. S.
                    LIFE'S little ironies are not always manifest. We
                        hear distant rumbling sounds of its tragedies, but rarely are we permitted
                        to witness the reality. Therefore the real incidents which I am about to
                        relate may have some value.
                    I first called upon W. L. S, Jr., in the winter of 1895. I had known of him
                        before only by reputation, or, what is nearer the truth, by seeing his name
                        in one of the great Sunday papers attached to several drawings of the most
                        lively interest. These drawings depicted night scenes of the city of New
                        York, and appeared as colored supplements, eleven by eighteen inches. They
                        represented the spectacular scenes which the citizen and the stranger most
                        delight inMadison Square in a drizzle; the Bowery lighted by a thousand
                        lamps and crowded with "L" and surface cars; Sixth Avenue
                        looking north from Fourteenth Street.
                    I was a youthful editor at the time and on the lookout for interesting
                        illustrations of this sort, and when a little later I was in need of a
                        colored supplement for the Christmas number I decided to call upon S. I knew
                        absolutely nothing about the world of art save what I had gathered from
                        books and current literary comment of all sorts, and was, therefore, in a
                        mood to behold something exceedingly bizarre in the atmosphere with which I
                        should find my illustrator surrounded.
                    I was not disappointed. It was at the time when artistsI mean American
                        artists principallywent in very strongly for that sort of thing. Only a few
                        years before they had all been going to Paris, not so much to paint as to
                        find out and imitate  how artists do and live. I was greeted by a small, wiry, lean-looking
                        individual arrayed in a bicycle suit, whose countenance could be best
                        described as wearing a perpetual look of astonishment. He had one eye which
                        fixed you with a strange, unmoving solemnity, owing to the fact that it was
                        glass. His skin was anything but fair, and might be termed sallow. He wore a
                        close, sharp-pointed Vandyke beard, and his gold-bridge glasses sat at
                        almost right angles upon his nose. His forehead was high, his good eye
                        alert, his hair sandy-colored and tousled, and his whole manner indicated
                        thought, feeling, remarkable nervous energy, and, above all, a rasping and
                        jovial sort of egotism which pleased me rather than otherwise.
                    I noticed no more than this on my first visit, owing to the fact that I was
                        very much overawed and greatly concerned about the price which he would
                        charge me, not knowing what rate he might wish to exact, and being desirous
                        of coming away at least unabashed by his magnificence and independence.
                    "What's it for?" he asked, when I suggested a
                        drawing.
                    I informed him.
                    "You say you want it for a double-page center?"
                    "Yes."
                    "Well, I'll do it for three hundred dollars."
                    I was taken considerably aback, as I had not contemplated paying more than
                        one hundred.
                    "I get that from all the magazines," he added, seeing my
                        hesitation, "wherever a supplement is intended."
                    "I don't think I could pay more than one hundred,"
                        I said, after a few moments' consideration.
                    "You couldn't?" he said, sharply, as if about to
                        reprove me.
                    I shook my head.
                    "Well," he said, "let's see a copy of
                        your publication."
                    The chief value of this conversation was that it taught me that the
                        man's manner was no indication of his mood. I had thought he was
                        impatient and indifferent, but I saw now that 
                        he was not so, rather brusque merely. He was simply excitable, somewhat like
                        the French, and meant only to be businesslike. The upshot of it all was that
                        he agreed to do it for one hundred and fifty, and asked me very solemnly to
                        say nothing about it.
                    I may say here that I came upon S in the full blush of his fancies and
                        ambitions, and just when he was verging upon their realization. He was not
                        yet successful. A hundred and fifty dollars was a very fair price indeed.
                        His powers, however, had reached that stage where they would soon command
                        their full value.
                    I could see at once that he was very ambitious. He was bubbling over with the
                        enthusiasm of youth and an intense desire for recognition. He knew he had
                        talent. The knowledge of it gave him an air and an independence of manner
                        which might have been irritating to some. Besides, he was slightly affected,
                        argue to the contrary as he would, and was altogether full of his own hopes
                        and ambitions.
                    The matter of painting this picture necessitated my presence on several
                        occasions, and during this time I got better acquainted with him. Certain
                        ideas and desires which we held in common drew us toward each other, and I
                        soon began to see that he was much above the average in insight and skill.
                        He talked with the greatest ease upon a score of subjectsliterature, art,
                        politics, music, the drama, and history. He seemed to have read the latest
                        novels; to have seen many of the current plays; to have talked with
                        important people. Theodore Roosevelt, previously Police Commissioner but
                        then Governor, often came to his studio to talk and play chess with him. A
                        very able architect was his friend. He had artist associates galore, many of
                        whom had studios in the same building or the immediate vicinity. And there
                        were literary and business men as well, all of whom seemed to enjoy his
                        company  and who were very fond of calling and
                        spending an hour in his studio.
                    I had only called the second time, and was going away, when he showed me a
                        steamship he had constructed with his own handsa fair-sized model, complete
                        in every detail, even to the imitation stokers in the boiler-room, and which
                        would run by the hour if supplied with oil and water. I soon learned that
                        his skill in mechanical construction was great. He was a member of several
                        engineering societies, and devoted some part of his carefully organized days
                        to studying and keeping up with problems in mechanics.
                    "Oh, that's nothing," he observed, when I marveled
                        at the size and perfection of the model. "I'll show you
                        something else, if you have time some day, which may amuse you."
                    He then explained that he had constructed several model warships, and that it
                        was his pleasure to take them out and fight them on a pond somewhere out on
                        Long Island.
                    "We'll go out some day," he said when I showed
                        appropriate interest, "and have them fight each other.
                        You'll see how it's done!"
                    I waited some time for this outing, and finally mentioned it.
                    "We'll go tomorrow," he said. "Can you be
                        around here by ten o'clock?"
                    Ten the next morning saw me promptly at the studio, and five minutes later we
                        were off.
                    When we arrived at Long Island City we went to the first convenient arm of
                        the sea and undid the precious fighters, in which he much delighted.
                    After studying the contour of the little inlet for a few moments he took some
                        measurements with a tape-line, stuck up two twigs in two places for guide
                        posts, and proceeded to fire and get up steam in his war-ships. Afterwards
                        he set the rudders, and then took them to the water-side and floated them at
                        the points where he had placed the twigs.
                    
                    These few details accomplished, he again studied the situation carefully,
                        headed the vessels to the fraction of an inch toward a certain point of the
                        opposite shore, and began testing the steam.
                    "When I say ready, you push this lever here," he said,
                        indicating a little brass handle fastened to the stern-post.
                        "Don't let her move an inch until you do that.
                        You'll see some tall firing."
                    He hastened to the other side where his own boat was anchored, and began an
                        excited examination. He was like a school-boy with a fine toy.
                    At a word, I moved the lever as requested, and the two vessels began steaming
                        out toward one another. Their weight and speed were such that the light wind
                        blowing affected them not in the least, and their prows struck with an
                        audible crack. This threw them side by side, steaming head on together. At
                        the same time it operated to set in motion their guns, which fired
                        broadsides in such rapid succession as to give a suggestion of rapid
                        revolver practice. Quite a smoke rose, and when it rolled away one of the
                        vessels was already nearly under water and the other was keeling with the
                        inflow of water from the port side. S lost no time, but throwing off his
                        coat, jumped in and swam to the rescue.
                    Throughout this entire incident his manner was that of an enthusiastic boy
                        who had something exceedingly novel. He did not laugh. In all our
                        acquaintance I never once heard him give a sound, hearty laugh. Instead he
                        cackled. His delight apparently could only express itself in that way. In
                        the main it showed itself in an excess of sharp movements, short verbal
                        expressions, gleams of the eye.
                    I saw from this the man's delight in the science of engineering, and
                        humored him in it. He was thereafter at the greatest pains to show all that
                        he had under way in the mechanical line, and schemes he had for enjoying
                        himself in this work  in the future. It seemed
                        rather a recreation for him than anything else. Like him, I could not help
                        delighting in the perfect toys which he created, but the intricate details
                        and slow process of manufacture were brain-racking. For not only would he
                        draw the engine in all its parts, but he would buy the raw material and cast
                        and drill and polish each separate part.
                    Upon my second visit I was deeply impressed by the sight of a fine passenger
                        engine, a duplicate of the great 999 of the New York Central, of those days.
                        It stood on brass rails laid along an old library shelf that had probably
                        belonged to the previous occupant of the studio. This engine was a splendid
                        object to look upon, strong, heavy, silent-running, with the fineness and
                        grace of a perfect sewing-machine. It was duly trimmed with brass and
                        nickel, after the manner of the great "flyers," and seemed
                        so sturdy and powerful that one could not restrain the desire to see it run.
                    "How do you like that?" S exclaimed when he saw me looking
                        at it.
                    "It's splendid," I said.
                    "See how she runs," he exclaimed, moving it up and down.
                    "No noise about that."
                    He fairly caressed the mechanism with his hand, and went off into a most
                        careful analysis of its qualities.
                    "I could build that engine," he exclaimed at last,
                        enthusiastically, "if I were down in the Baldwin Company's
                        place. I could make her break the record."
                    "I haven't the slightest doubt in the world," I
                        answered.
                    This engine was a source of great expense to him, as well as the chief point
                        in a fine scheme. He had made brass rails for itsufficient to extend about
                        the four sides of the studiosomething like seventy feet. He had made most
                        handsome passenger-cars with full equipment of brakes, vestibules, Pintsch
                        gas, and so on, and had painted on their sides "The Great Pullman
                        Line." One day, when we were quite 
                        friendly, he brought from his home all the rails, in a carpetbag, and gave
                        an exhibition of his engine's speed, attaching the cars and getting
                        up sufficient steam to cause the engine to race about the room at a rate
                        which was actually exciting. He had an arrangement by which it would pick up
                        water and stop automatically. It was on this occasion that he confided what
                        he called his great biograph scheme, the then forerunner of the latter day
                        moving pictures. It was all so new then, almost a rumor, like that of the
                        flying machine before it was invented.
                    "I propose to let the people see the photographic representation of
                        an actual wreckengine, cars, people, all tumbled down together after a
                        collision, and no imitation, eitherthe actual thing."
                    "How do you propose to do it?" I asked.
                    "Well, that's the thing," he said, banteringly.
                        "Now, how do you suppose I'd do it?"
                    "Hire a railroad to have a wreck and kill a few people," I
                        suggested.
                    "Well, I've got a better thing than that. A railroad
                        couldn't plan anything more real than mine will be."
                    I was intensely curious because of the novelty of the thing at that time. The
                        "Biograph" was in its infancy.
                    "This is it," he exclaimed suddenly. "You see how
                        realistic this engine is, don't you?"
                    I acknowledged that I did.
                    "Well," he confided, "I'm building
                        another just like it. It's costing me three hundred dollars, and
                        the passenger-cars will cost as much more. Now, I'm going to fix up
                        some scenery on my roofa gorge, a line of woods, a river, and a bridge.
                        I'm going to make the water tumble over big rocks just above the
                        bridge and run underneath it. Then I'm going to lay this track
                        around these rocks, through the woods, across the bridge and off into the
                        woods again.
                    
                    "I'm going to put on the two trains and time them so
                        they'll meet on the bridge. Just when they come into view where
                        they can see each other, a post on the side of the track will strike the
                        cabs in such a way as to throw the firemen out on the steps just as if they
                        were going to jump. When the engines take the bridge they'll
                        explode caps that will set fire to oil and powder under the cars and burn
                        them up."
                    "Then what?" I asked.
                    "Well, I've got it planned automatically so that you will
                        see people jumping out of the cars and tumbling down on the rocks, the
                        flames springing up and taking to the cars, and all that. Don't you
                        believe it?" he added, as I smiled at the idea. "Look
                        here," and he produced a model of one of the occupants of the cars.
                        He labored for an hour to show all the intricate details, until I was
                        compelled to admit the practicability and novelty of the idea. Then he
                        explained that instantaneous photography, as it was then called, was to be
                        applied at such close range that the picture would appear life size. The
                        actuality of the occurrence would do the rest.
                    Skepticism still lingered with me for a time, but when I saw the second train
                        growing, the figures and apparatus gradually being modeled, and the
                        correspondence and conferences going on between the artist and several
                        companies which wished to gain control of the result, I was perfectly sure
                        that his idea would some day be realized.
                    As I have said, when I first met S he had not realized any of his dreams. It
                        was just at that moment that the tide was about to turn. He surprised me by
                        the assurance, born of his wonderful virility, with which he went about all
                        things.
                    "I've got an order from the Ladies'
                            Home Journal," he said to me one day. "They came
                        to me."
                    "Good," I said. "What is it?"
                    "Somebody's writing up the terminal facilities of New
                        York."
                    
                    He had before him an Academy board, on which was sketched, in wash, a
                        midnight express striking out across the Jersey meadows with sparks blazing
                        from the smoke stacks and dim lights burning in the sleepers. It was a vivid
                        thing, strong with all the strength of an engine, and rich in the go and
                        enthusiasm which adhere to such mechanisms.
                    "I want to make a good thing of this," he said.
                        "It may do me some good."
                    A little later he received his first order from Harper's. He could
                        not disguise that he was pleased, much as he tried to carry it off with an
                        air. It was just before the Spanish war broke out, and the sketches he was
                        to do related to the navy.
                    He labored at this order with the most tireless enthusiasm. Marine
                        construction was his delight anyhow, and he spent hours and days making
                        studies about the great vessels, getting not only the atmosphere but the
                        mechanical detail. When he made the pictures they represented all that he
                        felt.
                    "You know those drawings?" he said the day after he
                        delivered them.
                    "Yes."
                    "I set a good stiff price on them and demanded my drawings back when
                        they were through."
                    "Did you get them?"
                    "Yep. It will give them more respect for what I'm trying to
                        do," he said.
                    Not long after he illustrated one of Kipling's stories.
                    He was in high feather at this, but grim and repressed withal. One could see
                        by the nervous movements of his wiry body that he was delighted over it.
                    At this time Kipling came to his studio. It was by special arrangement, but S
                        received him as if he werewell, as artists usually receive authors. They
                        talked over the galley proofs, and the author went away.
                    
                    "It's coming my way now," he said, when he could
                        no longer conceal his feelings. "I want to do something good on
                        this."
                    Through all this rise from obscurity to recognition he lived close to his
                        friendsa crowd of them, apparently, always in his studio jesting, boxing,
                        fencingand interested himself in the mechanics I have described. His
                        drawing, his engine-building, his literary studies and recreations were all
                        mixed, jumbled, plunging him pell-mell, as it were, on to distinction. In
                        the first six months of his studio life he had learned to fence, and often
                        dropped his brush to put on the mask and assume the foils with one of his
                        companions.
                    As our friendship increased I found how many were the man's
                        accomplishments and how wide his range of sympathies. He was an expert
                        bicyclist, as well as a trick rider, and used a camera in a way to make an
                        amateur envious. He could sing, having a fine tenor voice, which I heard the
                        very day I learned that he could sing. It so happened that it was my turn to
                        buy the theater tickets, and I invited him to come with me that especial
                        evening.
                    "Can't do it," he replied.
                    "All right," I said.
                    "I'm part of an entertainment tonight, or I
                        would," he added apologetically.
                    "What do you do?" I inquired.
                    "Sing."
                    "Get out!" I said.
                    "So be it," he answered. "Come up this
                        evening."
                    To this I finally agreed, and was surprised to observe the ease with which he
                        rendered his solo. He had an exquisitely clear and powerful voice and
                        received a long round of applause, which he refused to acknowledge by
                        singing again.
                    The influence of success is easily observable in a man of so volatile a
                        nature. It seems to me that I could have told by his manner, day by day, the
                        inwash of the separate ripples  of the
                        inrolling tide of success. He was all alive, full of plans, and the tale of
                        his coming conquests was told in his eye. Sometime in the second year of our
                        acquaintance I called at his studio in response to a card which he had stuck
                        under my office door. It was his habit to draw an outline head of himself,
                        something almost bordering upon a caricature, writing underneath it
                        "I called," together with any word he might have to say.
                        This day he was in his usual good spirits, and rallied me upon having an
                        office which was only a blind. He had a roundabout way of getting me to talk
                        about his personal affairs with him, and I soon saw that he had something
                        very interesting, to himself, to communicate. At last he said,
                    "I'm going to Europe next summer."
                    "Is that so?" I replied. "For pleasure?"
                    "Well, partly."
                    "What's up outside of that?" I asked.
                    "I'm going to represent the American Architectural League
                        at the international convention."
                    "I didn't know you were an architect," I said.
                    "Well, I'm not," he answered,
                        "professionally. I've studied it pretty
                        thoroughly."
                    "Well, you seem to be coming up, Louis," I remarked.
                    "I'm doing all right," he answered.
                    He went on working at his easel as if his fate depended upon what he was
                        doing. He had the fortunate quality of being able to work and converse most
                        entertainingly at the same time. He seemed to enjoy company under such
                        circumstances.
                    "You didn't know I was a baron, did you?" he
                        finally observed.
                    "No," I answered, thinking he was exercising his fancy for
                        the moment. "Where do you keep your baronial lands, my
                        lord?"
                    "In Germany, kind sir," he replied, banteringly.
                    
                    Then in his customary excitable mood he dropped his brushes and stood up.
                    "You don't believe me, do you?" he exclaimed,
                        looking over his drooping glasses.
                    "Why, certainly I believe you, if you are serious. Are you truly a
                        baron?"
                    "It was this way," he said. "My grandfather was a
                        baron. My father was the younger of two brothers. His brother got the title
                        and what was left of the estate. That he managed to go through with, and
                        then he died. Now, no one has bothered about the title"
                    "And you're going back to claim it?"
                    "Exactly."
                    I took it all lightly at first, but in time I began to perceive that it was a
                        serious ambition. He truly wanted to be Baron S and add to himself the
                        luster of his ancestors.
                    With all this, the man was really not so much an aristocrat in his mood as a
                        seeker after life and new experiences. Being a baron was merely a new
                        experience, or promised to be. He had the liveliest sympathies for
                        republican theories and institutionsonly he considered his life a thing
                        apart. He had a fine mind, philosophically and logically poised. He could
                        reason upon all things, from the latest mathematical theorem to Christian
                        Science. Naturally, being so much of an individualist, he was not drifting
                        toward any belief in the latter, but was never weary of discussing the power
                        of minda universal mind evenits wondrous ramifications and influences. Also
                        he was a student of the English school of philosophy, and loved to get up
                        mathematical and mechanical demonstrations of certain philosophic truths.
                        Thus he worked out by means of a polygon, whose sides were of unequal
                        lengths, a theory of friendship which is too intricate to explain here.
                    From now on I watched his career with the liveliest interest.
                    
                    He was a charming and a warm friend, and never neglected for a moment the
                        obligations which such a relationship demands.
                    I heard from him frequently in many and various ways, dined with him
                        regularly every second or third week, and rejoiced with him in his triumphs,
                        now more and more frequent. One spring he went to Europe and spent the
                        summer in tracing down his baronial claims, looking up various artists and
                        scientists and attending several scientific meetings here and there at the
                        same time. He did the illustrations for one of Kipling's fast
                        express stories which one of the magazines published, and came back flushed
                        and ready to try hard for a membership in the American Water-Color Society.
                    I shall never forget his anxiety to get into that mildly interesting body. He
                        worked hard and long on several pictures which should not only be hung on
                        the line but enlist sufficient interest among the artists to gain him a vote
                        of admission. He mentioned it frequently and fixed me with his eyes to see
                        what I thought of him.
                    "Go ahead," I said; "you have more right to
                        membership perhaps than many another I know. Try hard."
                    He painted not one, but four, pictures, and sent them all. They were very
                        interesting after their kind. Two were scenes from the great railroad
                        terminal yards; the others, landscapes in mist or rain. Three of these
                        pictures were passed and two of them hung on the line. The third was skyed, but he was admitted to membership.
                    I was delighted for his sake, for I could see, when he gave me the
                        intelligence, that it was a matter which had keyed up his whole nervous
                        system.
                    Not long after this we were walking on Broadway, one drizzly autumn evening,
                        on our way to the theater. Life, ambition, and our future were the small subjects under discussion. The street, as usual, was
                        crowded. On every hand  blazed the fire signs.
                        The yellow lights were beautifully reflected in the wet sidewalks and gray
                        wet cobblestones glistening with water.
                    When we reached Greeley Square (at that time a brilliant and almost
                        sputtering spectacle of light and merriment), S took me by the arm.
                    "Come over here," he said. "I want you to look at
                        it from here."
                    He took me to a point where, by the intersection of the lines of the
                        converging streets, one could not only see Greeley Square but a large part
                        of Herald Square, with its then huge theatrical sign of fire and its measure
                        of store lights and lamps of vehicles. It was a kaleidoscopic and inspiring
                        scene. The broad, converging walks were alive with people. A perfect jam of
                        vehicles marked the spot where the horse and cable cars intersected.
                        Overhead was the elevated station, its lights augmented every few minutes by
                        long trains of brightly lighted cars filled with changing metropolitan
                        crowdscrowds like shadows moving in a dream.
                    "Do you see the quality of that? Look at the blend of the lights and
                        shadows in there under the L."
                    I looked and gazed in silent admiration.
                    "See, right here before usthat pool of water theredo you get that?
                        Now, that isn't silver-colored, as it's usually
                        represented. It's a prism. Don't you see the hundred
                        points of light?"
                    I acknowledged the variety of color, which I had scarcely observed before.
                    "You may think one would skip that in viewing a great scene, but the
                        artist mustn't. He must get all, whether you notice it or not. It
                        gives feeling, even when you don't see it."
                    I acknowledged the value of this ideal.
                    "It's a great spectacle," he said.
                        "It's got more flesh and 
                        blood in it than people usually think. It's easy to make it too
                        mechanical and commonplace."
                    "Why don't you paint it?" I asked.
                    He turned on me as if he had been waiting for the suggestion.
                    "That's something I want to tell you," he said.
                        "I am. I've sketched it a half-dozen times already. I
                        haven't got it yet. But I'm going to."
                    I heard more of these dreams, intensifying all the while, until the
                        Spanish-American war broke out. Then he was off in a great rush of war work.
                        I scarcely saw him for six weeks, owing to some travels of my own, but I saw
                        his name. One day in Broadway I stopped to see why a large crowd was
                        gathered about a window in the Hoffman House. It was one of S's
                        drawings of our harbor defenses, done as if the artist had been sitting at
                        the bottom of the sea. The fishes, the green water, the hull of a massive
                        war-shipall were thereand about, the grim torpedoes. This put it into my
                        head to go and see him. He was as tense and strenuous as ever. The
                        glittering treasure at the end of the rainbow was more than ever in his eye.
                        His body was almost sore from traveling.
                    "I am in now," he said, referring to the war movement.
                        "I'am going to Tampa."
                    "Be gone long?" I asked.
                    "Not this first time. I'll only be down there three
                        weeks."
                    "I'll see you then."
                    "Supposing we make it certain," he said. "What do
                        you say to dining together this coming Sunday three weeks?"
                    I went away, wishing him a fine trip and feeling that his dreams must now
                        soon begin to come true. He was growing in reputation. Some war pictures,
                        such as he could do, would set people talking. Then he would paint his prize
                        pictures, finish his wreck scheme, become a baron, and be a great man.
                    Three weeks later I knocked at his studio door. It was a  fine springlike day, though it was in February. I expected
                        confidently to hear his quick aggressive step inside. Not a sound in reply.
                        I knocked harder, but still received no answer. Then I went to the other
                        doors about. He might be with his friends, but they were not in. I went away
                        thinking that his war duties had interfered, that he had not returned.
                    Nevertheless there was something depressing about that portion of the
                        building in which his studio was located. I felt as if it should not be, and
                        decided to call again. Monday it was the same, and Tuesday.
                    That same evening I was sitting in the library of the Salmagundi Club, when a
                        well-known artist addressed me.
                    "You knew S, didn't you?" he said.
                    "Yes; what of it?"
                    "You knew he was dead, didn't you?"
                    "What!" I said.
                    "Yes, he died of fever, this morning."
                    I looked at him without speaking for a moment.
                    "Too bad," he said. "A clever boy, Louis. Awfully
                        clever. I feel sorry for his father."
                    It did not take long to verify his statement. His name was in the perfunctory
                        death lists of the papers the next morning. No other notice of any sort.
                        Only a half-dozen seemed to know that he had ever lived.
                    And yet it seemed to me that a great tragedy had happenedhe
                        was so ambitious, so full of plans. His dreams were so near fulfillment.
                    I saw the little grave afterward and the empty studio. His desks revealed
                        several inventions and many plans of useful things, but these came to
                        nothing. There was no one to continue the work.
                    My feeling at the time was as if I had been looking at a beautiful lamp,
                        lighted, warm and irradiating a charming scene, and then suddenly that it
                        had been puffed out before  my eyes, as if a
                        hundred bubbles of iridescent hues had been shattered by a breath. We toil
                        so much, we dream so richly, we hasten so fast, and, lo! the green door is
                        opened. We are through it, and its grassy surface has sealed us forever from
                        all which apparently we so much craveeven as, breathlessly, we are still
                        running.
                
            
        
    
