
     ----CITATION---- 
        Major, Charles, 1856-1913. Yolanda Maid of Burgundy: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2455
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                
                
            
            
            
            
            
                YOLANDA
                MAID OF BURGUNDY
                
            
            
            
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    YOLANDA
                        MAID OF BURGUNDY
                
                
                    By
                    CHARLES MAJOR AUTHOR OF WHEN KNIGHTHOOD WAS IN
                    FLOWER DOROTHY VERNON OF HADDON HALL ETC. * *
                WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY CHARLOTTE WEBER DITZLER
                
                    NEW YORK: LONDON
                    THE MACMILLAN COMPANY: MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.
                    MCMV
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT, 1905, BY THE
                    MACMILLAN COMPANY.
                Set up and electrotyped. Published October, 1905.
                Norwood Press J. S. Cushing & Co. — Berwick
                    & Smith Co. Norwood, Mass., U.S.A.
            
            
            
                TO MY WIFE
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    CHAPTER I A CASTLE AMONG THE CRAGS
                        1
                    CHAPTER II KNIGHTS-ERRANT
                        22
                    CHAPTER III YOLANDA THE SORCERESS
                        44
                    CHAPTER IV DOWN THE RHINE TO BURGUNDY
                        68
                    CHAPTER V WHO IS YLANDA? 90
                    CHAPTER VI DUKE CHARLES THE RASH
                        109
                    CHAPTER VII A RACE WITH THE DUKE
                        123
                    CHAPTER VIII ON THE MOAT BRIDGE
                        147
                    CHAPTER IX THE GREAT RIDDLE
                        166
                    
                    CHAPTER X THE HOUSE UNDER THE WALL
                        179
                    CHAPTER XI PERONNE LA PUCELLE
                        195
                    CHAPTER XII A LIVE WREN PIE
                        224
                    CHAPTER XIII A BATTLE IN MID AIR
                        250
                    CHAPTER XIV SIR KARL MEETS THE PRINCESS
                        272
                    CHAPTER XV THE CROSSING OF A "T" 288
                    CHAPTER XVI PARTICEPS CRIMINIS
                        307
                    CHAPTER XVII TRIAL BY COMPAT
                        324
                    CHAPTER XVIII YOLANDA OR THE PRINCESS? 349
                    CHAPTER XIX MAX GOES TO WAR
                        382
                    CHAPTER XX A TREATY WITH LOUIS XI
                            397
                
            
            
            
                ILLUSTRATIONS
                
                    MAX AND YOLANDA
                        
                            Frontispiece
                        
                    
                    KARL AND MAX AT HAPSBURG CASTLE
                        20
                    MAX " 250
                    THE DUKE OF BURGUNDY " 282
                    MAX AT THE GATE OF THE LISTS " 336
                
            
        
        
            
            
                YOLANDA
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    A CASTLE AMONG THE CRAGS
                    
                        LIKE the Israelites of old, mankind is prone to worship
                        false gods, and persistently sets up the brazen image of a sham hero, as its
                        idol. I should like to write the history of the world, if for no other
                        reason than to assist several well-established heroes down from their
                        pedestals. Great Charlemagne might come to earth's level, his patriarchal,
                        flowing beard might drop from his face, and we might see him as he really
                        was—a plucked and toothless old savage, with no more Christianity
                        than Jacob, and with all of Jacob's greed. Richard of England, styled by
                        hero-worshippers "The Lion-hearted," might be re-christened "The
                        Wolf-hearted," and the famous Du Guesclin might seem to us a half-brutish
                        vagabond. But Charles of Burgundy, dubbed by this prone world "The Bold" and
                        "The Rash," would take the greatest fall. Of him and his fair daughter I
                        shall speak in this history.
                    At the time of which I write Louis XI reigned over France, Edward IV ruled in
                        England, and his  sister, the beautiful Margaret
                        of York, was the unhappy wife of this Charles the Rash, and stepmother to
                        his gentle daughter Mary. Charles, though only a duke in name, reigned as a
                        most potent and despotic king over the fair rich land of Burgundy. Frederick
                        of Styria was head of the great house of Hapsburg, and Count Maximilian, my
                        young friend and pupil, was his heir.
                    Of the other rulers of Europe I need not speak, since they will not enter
                        this narrative. They were all bad enough,—and may God have mercy on
                        their souls.
                    Most of the really tragic parts in the great drama of history have been
                        played by women. This truth I had always dimly known, yet one does not
                        really know a fact until he feels it. I did not realize the extent to which
                        these poor women of history have suffered in the matter of enforced
                        marriages, until the truth was brought home to me in the person of Mary,
                        Princess of Burgundy, to whose castle, Peronne La Pucelle, my pupil,
                        Maximilian of Hapsburg, and I made a journey in the year 1476.
                    My knowledge of this fair lady began in far-off Styria, and there I shall
                        begin my story.
                    In times of peace, life in Hapsburg Castle was dull; in times of war it was
                        doleful. War is always grievous,  but my good
                        mistress, the Duchess of Styria, was ever in such painful dread lest evil
                        should befall her only child, Maximilian, that the pains of war-time were
                        rendered doubly keen to those who loved Her Grace.
                    After Maximilian had reached the fighting age there was too little war to
                        suit him. Up to his eighteenth year he had thrice gone out to war, and these
                        expeditions were heart-breaking trials for his mother. Although tied to his
                        mother's apron strings by bonds of mutual love, he burned with the fire and
                        ambition of youth; while I, reaching well toward my threescore years, had
                        almost outlived the lust for strife. Max longed to spread his wings, but the
                        conditions of his birth held him chained to the rocks of Styria, on the
                        pinnacle of his family's empty greatness.
                    Perched among the mountain crags, our castle was almost impregnable; but that
                        was its only virtue as a dwelling-place. Bare walls, stone floors, sour
                        wine, coarse boar's meat, brown bread, and poor beds constituted our meagre
                        portion.
                    Duke Frederick was poor because his people were poor. They lived among the
                        rocks and crags, raised their goats, ploughed their tiny patches of thin
                        earth, and gave to the duke and to each man his due. They were simple,
                        bigoted, and honest to the heart's core.
                    Though of mean fortune, Duke Frederick was the head of the great House of
                        Hapsburg, whose founders  lived in the morning
                        mists of European history and dwelt proudly amid the peaks of their mountain
                        home. Our castle in Styria was not the original Castle Hapsburg. That was
                        built centuries before the time of this story, among the hawks' crags of
                        Aargau in Switzerland. It was lost by the House of Hapsburg many years
                        before Max was born. The castle in Styria was its namesake.
                    To leaven the poor loaf of life in Castle Hapsburg, its inmates enjoyed the
                        companionship of the kindest man and woman that ever graced a high estate
                        — the Duke and Duchess of Styria. Though in their little court,
                        life was rigid with the starch of ceremony, it was softened by the
                        tenderness of love. All that Duke Frederick asked from his subjects was a
                        bare livelihood and a strict observance of ceremonious conventions. Those
                        who approached him and his son did so with uncovered head and bended knee.
                        An act of personal familiarity would have been looked on as high treason.
                        Taxes might remain unpaid, laws might be broken, and there was mercy in the
                        ducal heart; but a flaw in ceremony was unpardonable.
                    The boar's meat and the brown bread were eaten in state; the sour wine was
                        drunk solemnly; and going to bed each night was an act of national
                        importance. Such had been the life of this house for generations, and good
                        Duke Frederick neither would nor could break away from it.
                    
                    Of all these painful conditions young Max was a suffering victim. Did he
                        sally forth to stick a wild boar or to kill a bear, the Master of the Hunt
                        rode beside him in a gaudy, faded uniform. Fore-riders preceded him, and
                        after-riders followed. He was almost compelled to hunt by proxy, and he
                        considered himself lucky to be in at the death. The bear, of course, was
                        officially killed by Maximilian, Count of Hapsburg, no matter what hand
                        dealt the blow. Maximilian, being the heir of Hapsburg, must always move
                        with a slow dignity becoming his exalted station. He must, if possible,
                        always act through an officer; I verily believe that Duke Frederick, his
                        father, regretted the humiliating necessity of eating his own dinner.
                    Poor Max did not really live; he was an automaton.
                    Once every year Duke Frederick gave a tournament, the cost of which, in
                        entertainments and prizes, consumed fully two-thirds of his annual income.
                        On these occasions punctilious ceremony took the place of rich wine, and a
                        stiff, kindly welcome did service as a feast. These tournaments were rare
                        events for Max; they gave him a day of partial rest from his strait-jacket
                        life at the little court among the crags.
                    I shall give you here ten lines concerning myself. I am Italian by birth
                        — a younger son of the noble House of Pitti. I left home when but
                        little more  than a boy. Journeying to the East,
                        I became Sir Karl de Pitti, Knight of the Holy Order of St. John, and in
                        consequence I am half priest, half soldier. My order and my type are rapidly
                        passing away. I fought and prayed in many lands during twenty years. To be
                        frank, I fought a great deal more than I prayed. Six years out of the twenty
                        I spent in Burgundy, fighting under the banner of Duke Philip the Good,
                        father to Charles the Rash. My mother was a Burgundian — a Walloon
                        — and to her love for things German I owe my name, Karl. During my
                        service under Duke Philip I met my Lord d'Hymbercourt, and won that most
                        valuable of all prizes, a trusted friend.
                    Fifteen years before the opening of this story I grew tired of fighting. How
                        I drifted, a sort of human flotsam, against the crags of Styria would be a
                        long, uninteresting story. By a curious combination of events I assumed the
                        duties of tutor to the small count, Maximilian of Hapsburg, then a
                        flaxen-haired little beauty of three summers. I taught him all that was
                        needful from books, and grounded him fairly well in church lore, but gave my
                        best efforts to his education in arms.
                    Aside from my duties as instructor to the young count, I was useful in many
                        ways about the castle. By reason of the half of me that was priestly, I
                        could, upon occasion, hear confession, administer the holy sacrament,  and shrive a sinner as effectively as the
                        laziest priest in Christendom. I could also set a broken bone, and could mix
                        as bitter a draught as any Jew out of Judea. So, you will see, I was a
                        useful member of a household wherein ancestry took the place of wealth, and
                        pride was made to stand for ready cash.
                    The good duke might have filled his coffers by pillaging travellers, as many
                        of his neighbors did; but he scorned to thrive by robbery, and lived in
                        grandiose but honest penury.
                    Max took readily to the use of arms, and by the time he was eighteen, which
                        was three years before our now famous journey to Burgundy, a strong,
                        time-hardened man might well beware of him. When the boy was fourteen or
                        fifteen, I began to see in him great possibilities. In personal beauty and
                        strength he was beyond compare. His eyes were as blue as an Italian sky, and
                        his hair fell in a mass of tawny curls to his shoulders. His mother likened
                        him to a young lion. Mentally he was slow, but his judgment was clear and
                        accurate. Above all, he was honest, and knew not fear of man, beast, or
                        devil. His life in Styria, hedged about by ceremonious conventions, had
                        given him an undue portion of dignity and reticence, but that could easily
                        be polished down by friction with the rougher side of the world. Except
                        myself and his mother, he had never known a real friend.
                    To Max the people of the world were of two conditions:  a very small class to whom he must kneel, and a very large
                        number who must kneel to him. Even his mother addressed him publicly as "My
                        Lord Count." On rare occasions, in the deep privacy of her closet,
                        mother-love would get the better of her and break through the crust of
                        ceremony. Then she indulged herself and him in the ravishing, though
                        doubtful, luxury of calling him "Little Max." No one but I, and perhaps at
                        rare intervals Duke Frederick, ever witnessed this lapse from dignity on the
                        part of Her Grace, and we, of course, would not expose her weakness to the
                        world.
                    This love-name clung to Max, and "Little Max," though somewhat incongruous,
                        was pretty when applied to a strapping fellow six feet two and large of limb
                        in proportion.
                    When the boy approached manhood, I grew troubled lest this strait-jacket
                        existence in Styria should dwarf him mentally and morally. So I began to
                        stir cautiously in the matter of sending him abroad into the world. My first
                        advances met with a rebuff.
                    "It is not to be thought of," said the duke.
                    "Send the count out to the rude world to associate with underlings? Never!"
                        cried the duchess, horrified and alarmed.
                    I had expected this, and I was not daunted. I renewed the attack from
                        different points, and after  many onslaughts, I
                        captured the bailey of the parental fortresses; that is, I compelled them to
                        listen to me. My chief point of attack was Max himself. He listened readily
                        enough, but he could not see how the thing was to be done. When I spoke of
                        the luxuries of Italy and Burgundy, and told him of deeds of prowess
                        performed daily throughout the world by men vastly his inferior, his eyes
                        brightened and his cheek flushed. When I talked of wealth to be won and
                        glory to be achieved in those rich lands, and hinted at the barren poverty
                        of Styria, he would sigh and answer: —
                    "Ah, Karl, it sounds glorious, but I was born to this life, and father and
                        mother would not forgive me if I should seek another destiny. Fate has fixed
                        my lot, and I must endure it."
                    I did not cease my lay; and especially was the fat land of Burgundy my theme,
                        for I knew it well. Max would listen in enraptured silence. When he was
                        eighteen, I wrote, with deep-seated purpose, several letters to my friend
                        Lord d'Hymbercourt, who was at the time one of the councillors of Charles
                        the Rash, Duke of Burgundy. In those letters I dwelt at length on the
                        virtues, strength, and manly beauty of my pupil.
                    I knew that Charles often negotiated with other states the marriage of his
                        only child and heiress, Princess Mary. This form of treaty appeared to be
                             almost a mania with the rash Burgundian. I
                        also knew that in no instance had he ever intended to fulfil the treaty. His
                        purpose in each case was probably to create a temporary alliance with that
                        one state while he was in trouble with another. His daughter would inherit a
                        domain richer than that of any king in Europe, and the duke certainly would
                        be contented with nothing less than the hand of an heir to a crown. Suitors
                        for the fair Mary came from every land. All were entertained; but the
                        princess remained unbetrothed.
                    A few broad hints in my letters to Hymbercourt produced the result I so much
                        desired. One bright day our castle was stirred to its foundation-stones by
                        the arrival of a messenger from Duke Charles of Burgundy, bearing the
                        following missive: —
                    "To His Grace, Duke Frederick of Styria, Elector of the Holy Roman Empire,
                        and Count of Austria; Charles, Duke of Burgundy and Count of Charolois,
                        sends greeting: —
                    "The said Duke Charles recommends himself to the most puissant Duke
                        Frederick, and bearing in mind the great antiquity and high nobility of the
                        illustrious House of Hapsburg, begs to express his desire to bind the said
                        noble House to Burgundy by ties of marriage.
                    "To that end, His Grace of Burgundy, knowing by 
                        fame the many virtues of the young and valiant Count of Hapsburg, son to His
                        Grace, Duke Frederick, would, if it pleasures the said illustrious Duke
                        Frederick, suggest the appointment of commissioners by each of the high
                        contracting parties for the purpose of drawing a treaty of marriage between
                        the noble Count of Hapsburg and our daughter, Princess Mary of Burgundy. The
                        said commissioners shall meet within six months after the date of these
                        presents and shall formulate indentures of treaty that shall be submitted to
                        His Grace of Styria and His Grace of Burgundy.
                    "The lady of Burgundy sends herewith a letter and a jewel which she hopes the
                        noble Count of Hapsburg will accept as tokens of her esteem.
                    "May God and the Blessed Virgin keep His Grace of Styria in their especial
                        care."
                    Signed with a flourish. "CHARLES."
                    This letter did not deceive me. I did not think for a moment that Charles
                        meant to give his daughter to Max. But it answered my purpose by bringing
                        Max to a realization of the nothingness of life in Styria, and opening his
                        eyes to the glorious possibilities that lay in the great world beyond the
                        mountain peaks.
                    Burgundy's missive produced several effects in the household of Castle
                        Hapsburg, though none were  shown on the
                        surface. I was glad, but, of course, I carefully concealed the reasons for
                        my pleasure from His Grace. Duke Frederick was pleased to his toes and got
                        himself very drunk on the strength of it. Otherwise he smothered his
                        delight. He "was not sure"; "was not quite disposed to yield so great a
                        favor to this far-away duke"; "the count is young; no need for haste," and
                        so on. The duke had no intention whatever of sending such messages to
                        Burgundy; he simply wished to strut before his little court. Charles most
                        certainly would receive a pompous and affirmative answer. The poor duchess,
                        torn by contending emotions of mother-love and family pride, was flattered
                        by Burgundy's offer; but she was also grieved.
                    "We do not know the lady," she said. "Fame speaks well of her, but the report
                        may be false. She may not be sufficiently endued with religious
                        enthusiasm."
                    "She will absorb that from Your Grace," I answered.
                    Her Grace thought that she herself was religious and tried to impress that
                        belief on others; but Max was her god. In truth she was jealous of any woman
                        who looked on him twice, and she kept at the castle only the old and
                        harmless of the dangerous sex. She would have refused Burgundy's offer
                        quickly enough if her heart had been permitted to reply.
                    
                    The effect of the letter on Max was tremendous. He realized its political
                        importance, knowing full well that if he could add the rich domain of
                        Burgundy to the Hapsburg prestige, he might easily achieve the imperial
                        throne. But that was his lesser motive. Hymbercourt's letters to me had
                        extolled Mary's beauty and gentleness. Every page had sung her praises.
                        These letters I had given to Max, and there had sprung up in his untouched
                        heart a chivalric admiration for the lady of Burgundy. He loved an ideal. I
                        suppose most men and every woman will understand his condition. It was truly
                        an ardent love.
                    Max kept Hymbercourt's letters, and would hide himself on the battlements by
                        the hour reading them, dreaming the dreams of youth and worshipping at the
                        feet of his ideal, — fair Mary of Burgundy, his unknown
                        lady-love.
                    Before the arrival of the messenger from Duke Charles, Max spoke little of
                        the Burgundian princess; but the message gave her a touch of reality, and he
                        began to open his heart to me — his only confidant.
                    There seemed to have been a reciprocal idealization going on in the far-off
                        land of Burgundy. My letters to Hymbercourt, in which you may be sure Max's
                        strength and virtues lost nothing, fell into the hands of Madame
                        d'Hymbercourt, and thus came under the eyes of Princess Mary. That fair
                        little lady also  built in her heart an altar
                        to an unknown god, if hints in Hymbercourt's letters were to be trusted. Her
                        maidenly emotions were probably far more passive than Max's, though I have
                        been told that a woman's heart will go to great lengths for the sake of an
                        ideal. Many a man, doubtless, would fall short in the estimation of his
                        lady-love were it not for those qualities with which she herself endows
                        him.
                    Whatever the lady's sentiments may have been, my faith in Hymbercourt's hints
                        concerning them were strengthened by Mary's kindly letter and the diamond
                        ring for Max which came with her father's message to Styria. They were
                        palpable facts, and young Max built an altar in his holy of holies, and laid
                        them tenderly upon it.
                    Duke Frederick, with my help, composed a letter in reply to Burgundy's
                        message. It required many days of work to bring it to a form sufficient in
                        dignity, yet ample in assent. The missive must answer "yes" so emphatically
                        as to leave no room for doubt in Burgundy's mind, yet it must show no
                        eagerness on the part of Styria. (Duke Frederick always spoke of himself as
                        Styria.) Burgundy must be made to appreciate the honor of this alliance;
                        still, the fact must not be offensively thrust upon him.
                    The letter was sent, and Charles of Burgundy probably laughed at it. Duke
                        Frederick appointed commissioners and fixed Cannstadt as the place of  meeting. Whatever Duke Charles's reasons for
                        making the offer of marriage may have been, they probably ceased to exist
                        soon afterward, for he never even replied to Duke Frederick's acceptance.
                        For months Castle Hapsburg was in a ferment of expectancy. A watch stood
                        from dawn till dusk on the battlements of the keep, that the duke might be
                        informed of the approach of the Burgundian — messenger —
                        that never came. After a year of futile waiting the watch was abandoned.
                        Anger, for a time, took the place of expectancy; Duke Frederick each day
                        drowned his ill-humor in a gallon of sour wine, and remained silent on the
                        subject of the Burgundian insult.
                    Max's attitude was that of a dignified man. He showed neither anger nor
                        disappointment, but he kept the letter and the ring that Mary had sent him
                        and mused upon his love for his ideal — the lady he had never
                        seen.
                    A letter from Hymbercourt, that reached me nearly two years after this
                        affair, spoke of a tender little maiden in Burgundy, whose heart throbbed
                        with disappointment while it also clung to its ideal, as tender natures are
                        apt to do. This hint in Hymbercourt's letter sank to the tenderest spot in
                        Max's heart.
                    On Max's twenty-first birthday he was knighted by the emperor. A grand
                        tournament, lasting five days, celebrated the event, and Max proved himself
                        a man among men and a knight worthy of his spurs.  I had trained him for months in preparation for this, his first
                        great trial of strength and skill. He was not lacking in either, though they
                        would mature only with his judgment. His strength was beyond compare. A man
                        could hardly span his great arm with both hands.
                    Soon after Max was knighted, I brought up the subject of his journey into the
                        world. I was again met by parental opposition; but Max was of age and his
                        views had weight. If I could bring him to see the truth, the cause would be
                        won. Unfortunately, it was not his desires I must overcome; it was his
                        scruples. His head and his heart were full of false ideas and distorted
                        motives absorbed from environment, inculcated by parental teaching, and
                        inherited from twenty generations of fantastic forefathers. Inborn motives
                        in a conscientious person are stubborn tryants, and Max was their slave. The
                        time came when his false but honest standards cost him dearly, as you shall
                        learn. But in Max's heart there lived another motive stronger than the will
                        of man; it was love. Upon that string I chose to play.
                    One day while we were sunning ourselves on the battlements, I touched, as if
                        by chance, on the theme dear to his heart — Mary of Burgundy. After
                        a little time Max asked hesitatingly: —
                    "Have you written of late to my Lord d'Hymbercourt?"
                    
                    "No," I answered.
                    A long pause followed; then Max continued: "I hope you will soon do so. He
                        might write of — of —" He did not finish the sentence. I
                        allowed him to remain in thought while I formulated my reply. After a time I
                        said: —
                    "If you are still interested in the lady, why don't you go to Burgundy and
                        try to win her?"
                    "That would be impossible," he answered.
                    "No, no, Max," I returned, "not impossible — difficult, perhaps, but
                        certainly not impossible."
                    "Ah, Karl, you but raise false hopes," he responded dolefully.
                    "You could at least see her," I returned, ignoring his protest, "and that, I
                        have been told, is much comfort to a lover!"
                    "Indeed, it would be," said Max, frankly admitting the state of his
                        heart.
                    "Or it might be that if you saw her, the illusion would be dispelled."
                    "I have little fear of that," he returned.
                    "It is true," I continued, "her father's domains are the richest on earth. He
                        is proud and powerful, noble and arrogant; but you are just as proud and
                        just as noble as he. You are penniless, and your estate will be of little
                        value; your father is poor, and his mountain crags are a burden rather than
                        a profit; but all Europe boasts no nobler blood than that  of your house. Lift it from its penury. You
                        are worthy of this lady, were her estates multiplied tenfold. Win the
                        estates, Max, and win the lady. Many a man with half your capacity has
                        climbed to the pinnacle of fame and fortune, though starting with none of
                        your prestige. Why do you, born a mountain lion, stay mewed up in this
                        castle like a purring cat in your mother's lap? For shame, Max, to waste
                        your life when love, fortune, and fame beckon you beyond these dreary hills
                        and call to you in tones that should arouse ambition in the dullest
                        breast."
                    "Duke Charles has already insulted us," he replied.
                    "But his daughter has not," I answered quickly.
                    "That is true," returned Max, with a sigh, "but the Duke of Burgundy would
                        turn me from his gates."
                    "Perhaps he would," I replied, "if you should knock and demand surrender to
                        Maximilian, Count of Hapsburg. Take another name; be for a time a soldier of
                        fortune. Bury the Count of Hapsburg for a year or two; be plain Sir Max
                        Anybody. You will, at least, see the world and learn what life really is.
                        Here is naught but dry rot and mould. Taste for once the zest of living;
                        then come back, if you can, to this tomb. Come, come, Max! Let us to
                        Burgundy to win this fair lady who awaits us and  doubtless holds us faint of heart because we dare not strike for her. I
                        shall have one more sweet draught of life before I die. You will learn a
                        lesson that will give you strength for all the years to come, and will have,
                        at least, a chance of winning the lady. It may be one chance in a million;
                        but God favors the brave, and you have no chance if you remain perched
                        owl-like upon this wilderness of rock. Max, you know not what awaits you.
                        Rouse yourself from this sloth of a thousand years, and strike fire from the
                        earth that shall illumine your name to the end of time!"
                    "But we have no money for our travels, and father has none to give me," he
                        answered.
                    "True," I replied, "but I have a small sum in the hands of a merchant at
                        Vienna that will support us for a time. When it is spent, we must make our
                        bread or starve. That will be the best part of our experience. A struggle
                        for existence sweetens it; and if we starve, we shall deserve the fate."
                    
                        After three days Max gave me his answer.
                    
                    "I will go with you, Karl," he said; "you have never led me wrong. If we
                        starve, I shall not be much worse off than I am here in Styria. It hurts me
                        to say that the love of my father and mother is my greatest
                            danger; but it is true. They have lived here so long, feeding on
                        the poor adulation of a poor people, that they do not see life truly. I have
                        had  none of the joys and pleasures which, my
                        heart tells me, life holds. I have known nothing but this existence
                        — hard and barren as the rocks that surround me. I must, in time,
                        return to Styria and take up my burden, but, Karl, I will first live."
                    After this great stand, Max and I attacked first the father fortress and then
                        the mother stronghold. The latter required a long siege; but at last it
                        surrendered unconditionally, and the day was appointed when Max and I should
                        ride out in quest of fortune, and, perhaps, a-bride-hunting. Neither of us
                        mentioned Burgundy. I confess to telling — at least, to acting
                        — a lie. We said that we wished to go to my people in Italy, and to
                        visit Rome, Venice, and other cities. I said that I had a small sum of gold
                        that I should be glad to use; but I did not say how small it was, and no
                        hint was dropped that the heir to Styria might be compelled to soil his
                        hands by earning daily bread. We easily agreed among ourselves that Max and
                        I, lacking funds to travel in state befitting a prince of the House of
                        Hapsburg, should go incognito. I should keep my own name, it being little
                        known. Max should take the name of his mother's house, and should be known
                        as Sir Maximilian du Guelph.
                    At last came the momentous day of our departure. The battlements of the gate
                        were crowded with retainers, many of them in tears at losing "My young 
                        
                         Lord, the Count." Public opinion in Castle
                        Hapsburg unanimously condemned the expedition, and I was roundly abused for
                        what was held to be my part in the terrible mistake. Such an untoward thing
                        had never before happened in the House of Hapsburg. Its annals nowhere
                        revealed a journey of an heir into the contaminating world. The dignity of
                        the house was impaired beyond remedy, and all by the advice of a foreigner.
                        There was no lack of grumbling; but of course the duke's will was law. If he
                        wished to hang the count, he might do so; therefore the grumbling reached
                        the duke's ears only from a distance.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    KNIGHTS-ERRANT
                    
                        THE good mother had made a bundle for her son that would
                        have brought a smile to my lips had it not brought tears to my eyes. There
                        were her homely balsams to cure Max's ailments; true, he had never been ill,
                        but he might be. There was a pillow of down for his head, and a lawn
                        kerchief to keep the wind from his delicate throat. Last, but by no means
                        least, was the dear old mother's greatest treasure, a tooth of St. Martin,
                        which she firmly believed would keep her son's heart pure and free from sin.
                        Of that amulet Max did not stand in need.
                    We followed the Save for many leagues, and left its beautiful banks only to
                        journey toward Vienna. At that city I drew my slender stock of gold from the
                        merchant that had been keeping it for me, and bought a beautiful chain coat
                        for Max. He already had a good, though plain, suit of steel plate which his
                        father had given him when he received the accolade. I owned a good plate
                        armor and the most perfect chain coat I have ever seen. I took it from a
                        Saracen lord one day in battle, and gave him his own  life in payment. Max and I each bore a long sword, a short
                        sword, and a mace. We carried no lance. That weapon is burdensome, and we
                        could get one at any place along our journey.
                    I was proud of Max the morning we rode out of Vienna, true knights-errant,
                        with the greatest princess in Europe as our objective prize. Truly, we were
                        in no wise modest; but the God of heaven, the god of Luck, and the god of
                        Love all favor the man that is bold enough to attempt the impossible.
                    My stock of gold might, with frugality, last us three months, but after that
                        we should surely have to make our own way or starve. We hoped that Max would
                        be successful in filling our purses with prize money and ransoms, should we
                        fall in with a tournament now and then; but, lacking that good fortune, we
                        expected to engage ourselves as escorts to merchant caravans. By this kind
                        of employment we hoped to be housed and fed upon our travels and to receive
                        at each journey's end a good round sum of gold for our services. But we
                        might find neither tournament nor merchant caravan. Then there would be
                        trouble and hardship for us, and perhaps, at times, an aching void under our
                        belts. I had often suffered the like.
                    Ours, you see, was not to be a flower-strewn journey of tinselled prince to
                        embowered princess. Before our return to Styria, Max would probably receive
                        what he needed to make a man of him — hard  knocks and rough blows in the real battle of life. Above all,
                        he would learn to know of whom this great world is composed, and would
                        return to Hapsburg Castle full of all sorts of noxious heresies, to the
                        everlasting horror of the duke and the duchess. They probably would never
                        forgive me for making a real live man of their son, but I should have my
                        reward in Max.
                    To Max, of course, the future was rosy-hued. Caravans were waiting for our
                        protection, and princes were preparing tournaments for our special behoof.
                            We want for food to eat or place to lay our heads?
                        Absurd! Our purses would soon be so heavy they would burden us; we should
                        soon need squires to carry them. If it were not for our desire to remain
                        incognito, we might presently collect a retinue and travel with herald and
                        banner. But at the end of all was sweet Mary of Burgundy waiting to be
                        carried off by Maximilian, Count of Hapsburg.
                    Just what the boy expected to do in Burgundy, I did not know. For the lady's
                        wealth I believe he did not care a straw — he wanted herself. He
                        hoped that Charles, for his own peace, would not be too uncivil and would
                        not force a desperate person to take extreme measures; but should this rash
                        duke be blind to his own interests — well, let him beware! Some one
                            might carry off his daughter right from under the
                        ducal nose. Then let the Burgundian  follow at
                        his peril. Castle Hapsburg would open his eyes. He would learn what an
                        impregnable castle really is. If Duke Charles thought he could bring his
                        soft-footed Walloons, used only to the mud roads of Burgundy, up the stony
                        path to the hawk's crag, why, let him try! Harmless boasting is a boy's
                        vent. Max did not really mean to boast, he was only wishing; and to a
                        flushed, enthusiastic soul, the wish of to-day is apt to look like the fact
                        of to-morrow.
                    We hoped to find a caravan ready to leave Linz, but we were disappointed, so
                        we journeyed by the Danube to the mouth of the Inn, up which we went to
                        Muhldorf. There we found a small caravan bound for Munich on the Iser. From
                        Munich we travelled with a caravan to Augsburg, and thence to Ulm, where we
                        were overjoyed to meet once more our old friend, the Danube. Max snatched up
                        a handful of water, kissed it, and tossed it back to the river, saying:
                        —
                    "Sweet water, carry my kiss to the river Save; there give it to a nymph that
                        you will find waiting, and tell her to take it to my dear old mother in
                        far-off Styria."
                    Do not think that we met with no hard fortune in our journeying. My gold was
                        exhausted before we reached Muhldorf, and we often travelled hungry, meeting
                        with many lowly adventures. Max at first resented the familiarity of
                        strangers, but hunger is one of the factors in man-building, and the scales
                             soon began to fall from his eyes. Dignity
                        is a good thing to stand on, but a poor thing to travel with, and Max soon
                        found it the most cumbersome piece of luggage a knight-errant could
                        carry.
                    Among our misfortunes was the loss of the bundle prepared by the duchess, and
                        with it, alas! St. Martin's tooth. Max was so deeply troubled by the loss of
                        the tooth that I could not help laughing.
                    "Karl, I am surprised that you laugh at the loss of my mother's sacred
                        relic," said Max, sorrowfully.
                    I continued to laugh, and said: "We may get another tooth from the first
                        barber we meet. It will answer all the purposes of the one you have
                        lost."
                    "Truly, Karl?"
                    "Truly," I answered. "The tooth was a humbug."
                    "I have long thought as much," said Max, "but I valued it because my mother
                        loved it."
                    "A good reason, Max," I replied, and the tooth was never afterward
                        mentioned.
                    From Ulm we guarded a caravan to Cannstadt. From that city we hoped to go to
                        Strasburg, and thence through Lorraine to Burgundy, but we found no caravan
                        bound in that direction. Our sojourn at Cannstadt exhausted the money we got
                        for our journeys from Augsburg and Ulm, and we were compelled, much against
                        our will, to accept an offer of service with one Master Franz, a silk
                        merchant of Basel, who  was about to journey
                        homeward. His caravan would pass through the Black Forest; perhaps the most
                        dangerous country in Europe for travellers.
                    Knowing the perils ahead of us, I engaged two stout men-at-arms, and late in
                        February we started for Basel as bodyguard to good Master Franz. Think of
                        the heir of Hapsburg marching in the train of a Swiss merchant! Max dared
                        not think of it; he was utterly humiliated!
                    Our first good fortune at Muhldorf he looked on as the deepest degradation a
                        man might endure, but he could not starve, and he would not beg. Not once
                        did he even think of returning to Styria, and, in truth, he could not have
                        done so had he wished; our bridges were burned behind us; our money was
                        spent.
                    By the time we had finished half our journey to Basel, Max liked the life we
                        were leading, and learned to love personal liberty, of which he had known so
                        little. Now he could actually do what he wished. He could even slap a man on
                        the back and call him "comrade." Of course, if the process were reversed,
                        — if any one slapped Max on the back, — well, dignity is
                        tender and not to be slapped. On several occasions Max got himself into
                        trouble by resenting familiarities, and his difficulties at times were
                        ludicrous. Once a fist fight occurred. The heir of Hapsburg was actually
                        compelled to fight with his fists. He thrashed the poor fellow most
                        terribly, and I believe would have killed  him
                        had not I stayed his hand. Another time a pretty girl at Augsburg became
                        familiar with him, and Max checked her peremptorily. When he grew angry, she
                        laughed, and saucily held up her lips for a kiss. Max looked at me in
                        half-amused wonder.
                    "Take it, Max; there is no harm in it," I suggested.
                    Max found it so, and immediately wanted more, but the girl said too many
                        would not be good for him. She promised others later on, if he were very,
                        very good. Thus Max was conquered by a kiss at the wayside.
                    The girl was very pretty, Max was very good, and she helped me wonderfully in
                        reducing his superfluous dignity. Her name was Gertrude, and we spoke of her
                        afterward as "Gertrude the Conqueror." She was a most enticing little
                        individual, and Max learned that persons of low degree really may be
                        interesting. That was his first great lesson. I had some trouble after
                        leaving Augsburg to keep him from taking too many lessons of the same
                        sort.
                    Our contract with Franz provided that we should receive no compensation until
                        after his merchandise had safely reached Basel, but then our remuneration
                        was to be large. Max had no doubt as to the safe arrival of the caravan at
                        Basel, and he rejoiced at the prospect. I tried to reduce the rosy hue of
                        his dreams, but failed. I suggested that we might have fighting ahead of us
                        harder than any we had known,  though we had
                        given and taken some rough knocks on two of our expeditions. Max laughed and
                        longed for the fray; he was beginning to live. The fray came quickly enough
                        after we reached the Black Forest, and the fight was sufficiently warm to
                        suit even enthusiastic Max. He and I were wounded; one of our men-at-arms
                        was killed, and Franz's life was saved only by an heroic feat of arms on
                        Max's part. The robbers were driven off; we spent a fortnight in a near-by
                        monastery, that our wounds might heal, and again started for Basel.
                    During the last week in March we approached Basel. Max had saved the
                        merchant's life; we had protected the caravan from robbery; and good Franz
                        was grateful. Notwithstanding our sure reward, Max was gloomy. The future
                        had lost its rosiness; his wound did not readily heal; Basel was half a
                        hundred leagues off our road to Burgundy. Why did we ever come to
                        Switzerland? Everything was wrong. But no man knows what good fortune may
                        lurk in an evil chance.
                    At the close of a stormy day we sighted Basel from the top of a hill, and
                        soon the lights, one by one, began to twinkle cosily through the gloaming.
                        All day long drizzling rain and spitting snow had blown in our faces like
                        lance points, driven down the wind straight from the icy Alps. We were
                        chilled to the bone; and in all my life I have never beheld a sight so  comforting as the home lights of the quaint
                        old Swiss city.
                    Franz soon found a wherry and, after crossing the Rhine, we marched slowly
                        down the river street, ducking our heads to the blast. Within half an hour
                        we passed under a stone archway and found ourselves snug in the haven of our
                        merchant's courtyard. Even the sumpter mules rejoiced, and gave forth a
                        chorus of brays that did one's heart good. Every tone of their voices spoke
                        of the warm stalls, the double feed of oats, and the great manger of sweet
                        hay that awaited them. Before going into the house Max gave to each mule a
                        stroke of his hand in token of affection. Surely this proud automaton of
                        Hapsburg was growing lowly in his tastes. In other words, nature had
                        captured his heart and was driving out the inherited conventions of twenty
                        generations. Five months of contact with the world had wrought a greater
                        cure than I had hoped five years would work. I was making a man out of the
                        flesh and blood of a Hapsburg. God only knows when the like had happened
                        before.
                    Max and I were conducted by a demure little Swiss maid to a large room on the
                        third floor of the house, overlooking the Rhine. There was no luxury, but
                        there was every comfort. There were two beds, each with a soft feather
                        mattress, pillows of down, and warm, stuffed coverlets of silk. These were
                        not known  even in the duke's apartments at
                        Hapsburg Castle. There we had tarnished gold cloth and ancient tapestries in
                        abundance, but we lacked the little comforts that make life worth living.
                        Here Max learned another lesson concerning the people of this world. The
                        lowly Swiss merchant's unknown guest slept more comfortably than did the
                        Duke of Styria.
                    When we went down to supper, I could see the effort it cost Max to sit at
                        table with these good people. But the struggle was not very great; five
                        months before it would have been impossible. At Hapsburg he sat at table
                        with his father and mother only; even I had never sat with him in the
                        castle. At Basel he was sitting with a burgher and a burgher's frau. In
                        Styria he ate boar's meat from battered silver plate and drank sour wine
                        from superannuated golden goblets; in Switzerland he ate tender, juicy meats
                        and toothsome pastries from stone dishes and drank rich Cannstadt beer from
                        leathern mugs. His palate and his stomach jointly attacked his brain, and
                        the horrors of life in Hapsburg appeared in their true colors.
                    On the morning of our second day at Basel, Franz invited us to be his guests
                        during our sojourn in the city. His house was large, having been built to
                        entertain customers who came from great distances to buy his silks.
                    Max and I had expected to leave Basel when our 
                        wounds were entirely healed, but we changed our minds after I had talked
                        with Franz. The conversation that brought about this change occurred one
                        morning while the merchant and I were sitting in his shop. He handed me a
                        purse filled with gold, saying: —
                    "Here is twice the sum I agreed to pay. I beg that you accept it since I
                        shall still be in your debt."
                    I knew by the weight of the gold that it was a larger sum than I had ever
                        before possessed. I did not like to accept it, but I could not bring myself
                        to refuse a thing so important to Max.
                    "We should not accept this from you, good Franz, but — but
                        —"
                    "The boy saved my life and my fortune," he interrupted, "and I am really
                        ashamed to offer you so small a sum. You should have half of all my
                        goods."
                    I protested and thanked him heartily, not only for his gift, but also for his
                        manner of giving. Then I told him of our intended journey to Burgundy
                        — of course not mentioning the princess — and asked if he
                        knew of any merchant who would soon be travelling that way.
                    "There are many going down the river from Basel to Strasburg," he answered,
                        "and you may easily fall in with one any day. But there will soon be an
                        opportunity for you to travel all the way to 
                        Burgundy. I know the very man for your purpose. He is Master George
                        Castleman of Peronne. He comes every spring, if there is peace along the
                        road, to buy silks. We now have peace, though I fear it will be of short
                        duration, and I am expecting Castleman early this season. He will probably
                        be here before the first of May. He is a rich merchant, and was one of the
                        councillors of Duke Philip the Good, father to the present Duke of Burgundy.
                        Years ago Duke Philip built a house for him abutting the walls of Peronne
                        Castle. It is called 'The House under the Wall,' and Castleman still lives
                        in it. He refused a title of nobility offered him by Duke Philip. He is not
                        out of favor with the present duke, but he loves peace too dearly to be of
                        use to the hot-headed, tempestuous Charles. Duke Charles, as you know, is
                        really King of Burgundy — the richest land on earth. His domain is
                        the envy of every king, but he will bring all his grandeur tumbling about
                        his head if he perseveres in his present course of violence and greed."
                    At that moment Max joined us.
                    "I hear this Duke Charles has no son to inherit his rich domain?" I observed
                        interrogatively.
                    "No," answered Franz. "He has a daughter, the Princess Mary, who will inherit
                        Burgundy. She is said to be as gentle as her father is violent. Castleman
                        tells me that she is gracious and kind to those  beneath her, and, in my opinion, that is the true stamp of
                        greatness."
                    Those were healthful words for Max.
                    "The really great and good have no need to assert their qualities," I
                        answered.
                    "Castleman often speaks of the princess," said Franz. "He tells me that his
                        daughter Antoinette and the Princess Mary have been friends since childhood
                        — that is, of course, so far as persons so widely separated by
                        birth and station can be friends."
                    I briefly told Max what Franz had said concerning Castleman, and the young
                        fellow was delighted at the prospect of an early start for Peronne.
                    In Max's awakening, the radiance of his ideal may have been dimmed, but if
                        so, the words of Franz restored its lustre. If the boy's fancy had wandered,
                        it quickly returned to the lady of Burgundy.
                    I asked Franz if Duke Charles lived at Peronne.
                    "No, he lives at Ghent," he answered; "but on rare occasions he visits
                        Peronne, which is on the French border. Duke Philip once lived there, but
                        Charles keeps Peronne only as his watch-tower to overlook his old enemy,
                        France. The enmity, I hope, will cease, now that the Princess Mary is to
                        marry the Dauphin."
                    This confirmation of a rumor which I had already heard was anything but
                        welcome. However, it sensitized the feeling Max entertained for his unknown
                             lady-love, and strengthened his resolution
                        to pursue his journey to Burgundy at whatever cost.
                    I led Franz to speak of Burgundian affairs and he continued:—
                    "The princess and her stepmother, the Duchess Margaret, live at Peronne. They
                        doubtless found life at Ghent with the duke too violent. It is said that the
                        duchess is unhappily wedded to the fierce duke, and that the unfortunate
                        princess finds little favor in her father's eyes because he cannot forgive
                        her the grievous fault of being a girl."
                    While Franz was talking I was dreaming. A kind providence had led us a
                        half-hundred leagues out of our road, through wounds and hardships, to
                        Basel; but that quiet city might after all prove to be the open doorway to
                        Max's fortune. My air-castle was of this architecture: Max would win old
                        Castleman's favor — an easy task. We would journey to Peronne, seek
                        Castleman's house, pay court to Antoinette — I prayed she might not
                        be too pretty — and—you can easily find your way over the
                        rest of my castle.
                    Within a fortnight Max and I had recovered entirely from our wounds, and were
                        abroad each day in the growing warmth of the sunshine. We did not often
                        speak of Castleman, but we waited, each day wishing for his speedy
                        advent.
                    At last, one beautiful evening early in May, he 
                        arrived. Max and I were sitting at our window watching the river, when the
                        little company rode up to the door of the merchant's shop. With Castleman
                        were two young women hardly more than girls. One of them was a pink and
                        white young beauty, rather tall and somewhat stout. Her face, complexion,
                        and hair were exquisite, but there was little animation in her expression.
                        The other girl had features less regular, perhaps, but she was infinitely
                        more attractive. She was small, but beautiful in form; and she sprang from
                        her horse with the grace of a kitten. Her face was not so white as her
                        companion's, but its color was entrancing. Her expression was animated, and
                        her great brown eyes danced like twinkling stars on a clear, moonless
                        night.
                    The young women entered the house, and we saw nothing more of them for
                        several days.
                    When we met Castleman, he gladly engaged our services to Peronne, having
                        heard from Franz of our adventures in the Black Forest. We left the terms to
                        him, and he suggested a compensation far greater than we should have asked.
                        The sum we received from Franz, together with that which we should get from
                        Castleman, would place us beyond want for a year to come. Surely luck was
                        with us.
                    After Castleman's arrival our meals were served in our room, and we saw
                        little of him or of Franz for a week or more. Twice I saw Castleman ride out
                             with the young women, and after that I
                        haunted the front door of the house. One bright afternoon I met them as they
                        were about to dismount. Castleman was an old man and quite stout, so I
                        helped him from his horse. He then turned to the fair girl of pink and
                        white, saying:—
                    "Antoinette, daughter, this is Sir Karl de Pitti, who will accompany us to
                        Peronne."
                    I made my bow and assisted Fräulein Antoinette to the ground. The other young
                        lady sprang nimbly from her saddle without assistance and waited, as I
                        thought, to be presented. Castleman did not offer to present her, and she
                        ran to the house, followed by serene Antoinette. I concluded that the
                        smaller girl was Fräulein Castleman's maid. I knew that great familiarity
                        between mistress and servant was usual among the burgher class.
                    The smaller girl was certainly attractive, but I did not care for her
                        acquaintance. Antoinette was the one in whose eyes I hoped to find favor,
                        first for myself and then for Max. By her help I hoped Max might be brought
                        to meet the Princess of Burgundy when we should reach Peronne. I had little
                        doubt of Max's success in pleasing Antoinette; I was not at all anxious that
                        he should please the smaller maid. There was a saucy glance in her dark
                        eyes, and a tremulous little smile constantly playing about her red,
                        bedimpled mouth, that boded trouble to a susceptible  masculine heart. Max, with all his simplicity, though not
                        susceptible, had about him an impetuosity when his interest was aroused of
                        which I had learned to stand in wholesome dread. I was jealous of any woman
                        who might disturb his dreams of Mary of Burgundy, and this little maid was
                        surely attractive enough to turn any man's head her way if she so
                        desired.
                    Later in the afternoon I saw Fräulein Antoinette in the shop looking at silks
                        and laces. Hoping to improve the opportunity, I approached her, and was
                        received with a serene and gracious smile. Near Antoinette were the saucy
                        brown eyes and the bedimpled mouth. Truly they were exquisitely beautiful in
                        combination, and, old as I was, I could not keep my eyes from them. The eyes
                        and dimples came quickly to Antoinette, who presented me to her "Cousin
                        Fräulein Yolanda Castleman." Fräulein Yolanda bowed with a grace one would
                        not expect to find in a burgher girl, and said with the condescension of a
                        princess:—
                    "Sir Karl, you pleasure me."
                    I was not prepared for her manner. She probably was not
                        Antoinette's maid. A pause followed my presentation which might have been
                        meant by the brown-eyed maid as permission to withdraw. But I was for having
                        further words with Antoinette. She, however, stepped back from her cousin,
                        and, if I was  to remain, I must speak to my
                        lady Fräulein Yolanda Castleman or remain silent, so I asked,—
                    "Do you reside in Basel, Fräulein?"
                    "No, no," she replied, with no touch of bourgeois confusion, "I am a
                        Burgundian. Uncle Castleman, after promising Twonette" (I spell the name as
                        she pronounced it) "and me for years, has brought us on this long journey
                        into the world. I am enjoying it more than any one can know, but poor uncle
                        lives in dread of the journey home. He upbraids himself for having brought
                        us and declares that if he but had us home again, nothing could induce him
                        to start out with such a cargo of merchandise."
                    "Well he may be fearful," I answered. "Where one's greatest treasure is,
                        there is his greatest fear, but peace reigns on the road to Burgundy, and I
                        hope your good uncle's fears are without ground save in his love."
                    "I hear you are to accompany us, and of course we shall be safe," she said,
                        the shadow of a smile playing suspiciously about her mouth and dancing in
                        her eyes.
                    "Yes, I am to have that great honor," I replied, bowing
                        very low. I, too, could be sarcastic.
                    "Does the — will the — the gentleman who is with you
                        accompany us?" asked Fräulein Yolanda. So! These maidens of Burgundy had
                        already seen my handsome Max! This one would surely be tempting him with her
                        eyes and her irresistible little smile.
                    
                    "Yolanda!" exclaimed serene Twonette. Yolanda gave no heed.
                    "Yes, Fräulein," I responded. "He goes with us. Do you live in Peronne?"
                    "Yes," she replied hesitatingly. "Where is your home and your friend's?"
                    "Yolanda!" again came in tones of mild remonstrance from Fräulein Antoinette.
                        The dimples again ignored the warning and waited for my answer.
                    "We have no home at present save the broad earth, Fräulein," I responded.
                    "You cannot occupy it all," she retorted, looking roguishly up to me.
                    "No," I responded, "we are occupying this part of the earth at present, but
                        we hope soon to occupy Burgundy."
                    "Please leave a small patch of that fair land for Twonette and me," she
                        answered, in mock entreaty. After a short pause she continued:—
                    "It seems easier for you to ask questions than to answer them."
                    "Fräulein," I responded, "your question is not easily answered. I was born in
                        Italy. I lived for many years in the East, and—"
                    "I did not ask for your biography," she said, interrupting me. I did not
                        notice the interruption, but continued:—
                    "I spent six years in your fair land of Burgundy.  My mother was a Walloon. I dearly love her people, and hope that my home
                        may soon be among them."
                    The girl's face had been slightly clouded, but when I spoke lovingly of the
                        Walloons, the dimples again played around her mouth and a smile brightened
                        her eyes.
                    "I also am a Walloon," she answered; "and your friend? He surely is not
                        Italian: he is too fair."
                    "The Lombards are fair," I answered, "and the Guelphs, you know, are of
                        Lombardy. You may have heard of the Houses of Guelph and of Pitti."
                    "I have often heard of them," she answered; then, after a short silence,
                        — "I fear I have asked too many questions." A gentle, apologetic
                        smile lighted her face and won me instantly. I liked her as much as I
                        admired her. I knew that she wanted me to speak of Max, so to please her I
                        continued, even against my inclination:—
                    "My young friend, Sir Maximilian du Guelph, wanted to see the world. We are
                        very poor, Fräulein, and if we would travel, we must make our way as we go.
                        We have just come from Ulm and Cannstadt, passing through the Black Forest.
                        Sir Max saved the life of our host, and in so doing was grievously wounded.
                        Good Master Franz rewarded us far beyond our deserts, and for the time being
                        we think we are rich."
                    "The name Maximilian is not Italian," observed Yolanda. "It has an Austrian
                        sound."
                    
                    "That is true," I responded. "My name, Karl, is German. Few names nowadays
                        keep to their own country. Your name, Yolanda, for example, is Italian."
                    "Is that true?" she answered inquiringly, taking up a piece of lace. I saw
                        that the interview was closing. After a moment's hesitation Yolanda turned
                        quickly to me and said:—
                    "You and your friend may sup with us this evening in the dining room of our
                        hostess. We take supper at five."
                    The invitation was given with all the condescension of a noble lady. Twonette
                        ventured:—"
                    "What will father say, Yolanda?"
                    "I can guess what uncle will say, but we will give him his say and take our
                        own way. Nonsense, Twonette, if we are to journey to Peronne with these
                        gentlemen, our acquaintance with them cannot begin too soon. Come, Sir Karl,
                        and — and bring your young friend, Sir Maximilian."
                    It was clear to my mind that, without my young friend, Sir Maximilian, I
                        should not have had the invitation. Yolanda then turned to Franz and his
                        silks, and I, who had always thought myself of some importance, was
                        dismissed by a burgher girl. I soothed my vanity with the thought that
                        beauty has its own prerogatives.
                    Without being little, Yolanda was small; without  nobility, she had the haute mien. But over and above
                        all she had a sweet charm of manner, a saucy gentleness, and a kindly grace
                        that made her irresistible. When she smiled, one felt like thanking God for
                        the benediction.
                    That evening at five o'clock Max and I supped with Frau Franz. The good frau
                        and her husband sat at either end of the table, Castleman, his daughter, and
                        Yolanda occupied one side, while I sat by Max opposite them. If Castleman
                        had offered objection to the arrangement, he had been silenced.
                    I was especially anxious that Max should devote himself to Twonette, but, as
                        I had expected, Yolanda's attractions were far too great to be resisted.
                        There was a slight Walloon accent in her French and German (we all spoke
                        both languages) that gave to her voice an exquisite cadence. I spoke to her
                        in Walloonish, and she was so pleased that she seemed to nestle toward me.
                        In the midst of an animated conversation she suddenly became silent, and I
                        saw her watching Max's hand. I thought she was looking at his ring. It was
                        the one that Mary of Burgundy had given him.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    YOLANDA THE SORCERESS
                    
                        SEVERAL days passed, during which we saw the Castlemans
                        frequently. One evening after supper, when we were all sitting in the
                        parlor, Yolanda enticed Max to an adjoining room, on the excuse of showing
                        him an ancient piece of tapestry. When it had been examined, she seated
                        herself on a window bench and indicated a chair for Max near by. Among much
                        that was said I quote the following from memory, as Max told me
                        afterward:—
                    "So you are from Italy, Sir Max?" queried Yolanda, stealing a glance at his
                        ring.
                    "Yes," returned Max.
                    "From what part, may I ask?" continued the girl, with a slight inclination of
                        her head to one side and a flash from beneath the preposterously long lashes
                        toward his hand.
                    "From — from Rome," stammered Max, halting at even so small a
                        lie.
                    "Ah, Sir Karl said you were from Lombardy," answered the girl.
                    "Well — that is — originally, perhaps, I was," he
                        returned.
                    
                    "Perhaps your family lives in both places?" she asked very seriously.
                    "Yes, that is the way of it," he responded.
                    "Were you born in both places?" asked Yolanda, without the shadow of a smile.
                        Max was thinking of the little lie he was telling and did not analyze her
                        question.
                    "No," he answered, in simple honesty, "you see I could not be born in two
                        places. That would be impossible."
                    "Perhaps it would be," replied Yolanda, with perfect gravity. Max was five
                        years her senior, but he was a boy, while she had the self-command of a
                        quick-witted woman, though she still retained the saucy impertinence of
                        childhood. Slow-going, guileless Max began to suspect a lurking intention on
                        Yolanda's part to quiz him.
                    "Did not Sir Karl say something about your having been born in Styria?" asked
                        the girl, glancing slyly at the ring.
                    "No, he did not," answered Max, emphatically. "I suppose I was born in Rome
                        — no, I mean Lombardy — but it cannot matter much to you,
                        Fräulein, where I was born if I do not wish to tell."
                    The direct course was as natural to Max as breathing. The girl was startled
                        by his abruptness. After a pause she continued:—
                    "I am sure you are not ashamed of your birthplace, and —"
                    
                    He interrupted her sharply:—
                    "I also am sure I am not ashamed of it."
                    "If you had permitted me to finish," she said quietly, "you would have had no
                        need to speak so sharply. I spoke seriously. I wanted to say that I am sure
                        you have no reason to feel ashamed of your birthplace, and that perhaps I
                        ought not to have asked a question that you evidently do not want to answer.
                        Uncle says if my curiosity were taken from me, there would be nothing left
                        but my toes."
                    Her contrition melted Max at once, and he said:—
                    "I will gladly tell you, Fräulein, if you want to know. I was born
                        —"
                    "No, no," she interrupted, "you shall not tell me. I will leave you at once
                        and see you no more if you do. Besides, there is no need to tell me; I
                        already know. I am a sorceress, a witch. I regret to make the confession,
                        but it is true; I am a witch."
                    "I believe you are," answered Max, looking at her admiringly and seating
                        himself beside her on the window bench. He had learned from Gertrude of
                        Augsburg and many other burgher girls that certain pleasantries were more
                        objectionable to them in theory than in practice; but this burgher girl rose
                        to her feet at his approach and seemed to grow a head taller in an instant.
                        He quietly took his old place and she took hers. She continued as if
                        unconscious of what had happened:—
                    
                    "Yes, I am a sorceress." Then she drew her face close to Max, and, gazing
                        fixedly into his eyes, said solemnly:—
                    "I can look into a person's eyes and know if they are telling me the truth. I
                        can tell their fortunes — past, present, and future. I can tell
                        them where they were born. I can tell them the history of anything of value
                        they have. Their jewellery, their —"
                    "Tell me any one of those things concerning myself," interrupted Max,
                        suddenly alive with interest.
                    "No, it is too great a strain upon me," answered the girl, with amusing
                        gravity.
                    "I entreat you," said Max, laughing, though deeply interested. "I believe you
                        can do what you say. I beg you to show me your skill in only one
                        instance."
                    The girl gently refused, begging Max not to tempt her.
                    "No, no, I cannot," she said, "good Father Brantôme has told me it is sinful.
                        I must not."
                    Half in jest but all in earnest, Max begged her to try; and, after a great
                        deal of coaxing, she reluctantly consented to give a very small exhibition
                        of her powers. Covering her face with her hands, she remained for the space
                        of a minute as if in deep thought. Then, making a series of graceful and
                        fantastic passes in the air with her hands, as if invoking a familiar
                        spirit, she said in low, solemn tones:—
                    
                    "You may now sit by me, Sir Max. My words must not be heard by any ears save
                        yours."
                    Max seated himself beside the girl.
                    "Give me your word that you will tell no one what I am about to do and say,"
                        she said.
                    "I so promise," answered Max, beginning to feel that the situation was almost
                        uncanny.
                    "Now, place in my hand some jewel or valued article of which I may speak,"
                        she said.
                    Excepting his sword and dagger, Max owned but one article of value —
                        the ring Mary of Burgundy had given him. He hesitatingly drew it from his
                        finger and placed it in the girl's hand. She examined it carefully, and
                        said:—
                    "Now, give me your hand, Sir Max." Her hand was not much larger than a big
                        snowflake in early spring, Max thought, and it was completely lost to sight
                        when his great fingers closed over it. The velvety softness of the little
                        hand sent a thrill through his veins, and the firm, unyielding strength of
                        his clasp was a new, delicious sensation to the girl. Startled by it, she
                        made a feeble effort to withdraw her hand; but Max clasped it firmly, and
                        she surrendered. After a short silence she placed the ring to her forehead,
                        closed her eyes, and drew her face so near to Max that he felt her warm
                        breath on his cheek. Max was learning a new lesson in life — the
                        greatest of all. She spoke in soft whispers, 
                        slowly dropping her words one by one in sepulchral tones:—
                    "What — do — I see — surely I am wrong. No
                        — I see clearly — a lady — a great lady
                        — a princess. She smiles upon a man. He is tall and young. His face
                        is fair; his hair falls in long, bright curls like yours. She gives him this
                        ring; she asks him to be her husband — no — surely a
                        modest maiden would not do that." She stopped suddenly, snatched her hand
                        from Max, returned the ring and cried, "No more, no more!"
                    She tossed her hands in the air, as if to drive off the spirits, and without
                        another word ran to the parlor laughing, and threw herself on Uncle
                        Castleman's knee. Max slowly made the sign of the cross and followed the
                        little enchantress. She had most effectually imposed on him. He was inclined
                        to believe that she had seen the ring or had heard of it in Burgundy before
                        the princess sent it; but Yolanda could have been little more than a child
                        at that time — three years before. Perhaps she was hardly past
                        fourteen, and one of her class would certainly not be apt to know of the
                        ring that had been sent by the princess. She might have received her
                        information from Twonette, who, Franz said, was acquainted with Mary of
                        Burgundy; but even had Yolanda heard of the ring, the fact would not have
                        helped her to know it.
                    
                    After our first evening with the Castlemans we got on famously together.
                        True, Max and I felt that we were making great concessions, and I do not
                        doubt that we showed it in many unconscious words and acts. This certainly
                        was true of Max; but Yolanda's unfailing laughter, though at times it was
                        provoking, soon brought him to see that too great a sense of dignity was at
                        times ridiculous. He could not, however, always forget that he was a
                        Hapsburg while she was a burgher girl, and his good memory got him many a
                        keen little thrust from her saucy tongue. If Max resented her sauciness, she
                        ran away from him with the full knowledge that he would miss her. She was
                        much surer that she pleased and delighted him than he was that he pleased
                        her, though of the latter fact she left, in truth, little room for
                        doubt.
                    Max was very happy. He had never before known a playmate. But here in Basel
                        the good Franz and his frau, Yolanda, Twonette, fat old Castleman, and
                        myself were all boys and girls together, snatching the joys of life fresh
                        from the soil of mother earth, close to which we lived in rustic
                        simplicity.
                    Since we had left Styria, our life, with all its hardships, had been a
                        delight to Max, but it was also a series of constantly repeated shocks. If
                        the shocks came too rapidly and too hard, he solaced his bruised dignity
                        with the thought that those who were unduly familiar with him did not know
                        that he was the heir  of the House of Hapsburg.
                        So day by day he grew to enjoy the nestling comfort of a near-by friend.
                        This, I grieve to say, was too plainly seen in his relations with Yolanda,
                        for she unquestionably nestled toward him. She made no effort to conceal her
                        delight in his companionship, though she most adroitly kept him at a proper
                        distance. If she observed a growing confidence in Max, she quickly nipped it
                        by showing him that she enjoyed my companionship or that of old Franz just
                        as much. On such occasions Max's dignity and vanity required balm.
                    "Oh, Karl," he said to me one evening while we were preparing for bed, "it
                        seems to me I have just wakened to life, or have just got out of prison. No
                        man can be happy on a pinnacle above the intimate friendships of his
                        fellow-man and — and woman."
                    "Yes, 'and woman.' Well put, Max," said I.
                    Max did not notice my insinuation, but continued:—
                    "I have lived longer since knowing these lowly friends than in all the years
                        of my life in Styria. Karl, you have spoiled a good, stiff-jointed Hapsburg,
                        but you have made a man. If nothing more comes of this journey into the
                        world than I have already had, I am your debtor for life. What would my dear
                        old father and mother say if they should see me and know the life I am
                        leading? In their eyes I should be disgraced — covered with
                        shame."
                    
                    "When you go back to Hapsburg," I said, "you can again take up your old,
                        petrified existence and eat your husks of daily adulation. You will soon
                        again find satisfaction in the bended knee, and will insist that those who
                        approach you bow deferentially to your ancestors."
                    "I shall, of course, return to Hapsburg," he said. "It is my fate, and no man
                        can change the destiny to which he was born. I must also endure the bowing
                        and the adulation. Men shall honor my ancestors and respect in me their
                        descendant, but I shall never again be without friends if it be in my power
                        to possess them. As I have said, that is difficult for one placed above his
                        fellow-man."
                    "There is the trouble with men of your degree," I answered. "Friends are not
                        like castles, cities, and courtly servitors. Those, indeed, one may really
                        own; but we possess our friends only as they possess us. Like a mirror, a
                        friend gives us only what we ourselves give. No king is great enough to
                        produce his own image unless he stands before the glass."
                    "Teach me, Karl, to stand before the glass," said Max, plaintively.
                    "You are before it now, my dear boy," I answered. "These new friends are
                        giving you only what you give them. With me, you have always been before the
                        glass."
                    
                    "That has been true," said Max, "ever since the first day you entered
                        Hapsburg. Do you remember? I climbed on your knee and said, 'You have a big,
                        ugly nose!' Mother admonished me, and I quickly made amends by saying, 'But
                        I like you.'"
                    "I well remember, Max," I responded. "That day was one of mutual conquest.
                        That is the prime condition of friendship: mutual conquest and mutual
                        surrender. But you must have other friends than me. You see I am not
                        jealous. You must have friends of your own age."
                    "I now realize why I have hungered all my life," said Max, "though I have
                        never before known: I longed for friends. Is it not strange that I should
                        find them among these low-born people? It surely cannot be wrong for me to
                        live as I do, though father and mother would doubtless deem it
                        criminal."
                    "These good burgher folk are making you better and broader and stronger," I
                        answered. "But there is one thing I want to suggest: you are devoting too
                        much of your time to the brown-eyed little maid. You must seek favor with
                        Twonette. She is harmless, and through her you may, by some freak of
                        fortune, reach the goal of your desires. With the prestige of your family
                        and the riches of Burgundy, you may become the most powerful man in the
                        world, save the Pope."
                    "Perhaps Fräulein Yolanda is also acquainted with  the Princess Mary," responded Max, half reluctantly speaking Mary's
                        name.
                    "No," I answered, "she is not. I asked her if she were. She laughed at the
                        suggestion, and said: 'Oh, no, no, the princess is a very proud person and
                        very exclusive. She knows but one burgher girl in Peronne, I am told. That
                        one is Twonette, and I believe she treats her most ungraciously at times. I
                        would not endure her snubs and haughty ways as Twonette does. I seek the
                        friendship of no princess Girls of my own class are good enough for me.
                    "Twonette, fetch me a cup of wine." "Twonette, thread my needle." "Twonette,
                        you are fat and lazy and sleep too much." "Twonette, stand up." "Twonette,
                        sit down." Faugh! I tell you I want none of these princesses, no, not one of
                        them. I hate princesses, and I tell you I doubly hate this — this
                        —' She did not say whom she doubly hated. She is a forward little
                        witch, Max. She laughed merrily at my questions concerning the princess, and
                        asked me if we were going to Burgundy to storm Mary's heart. 'Who is to win
                        her?' she asked. 'You, Sir Karl, or Sir Max? It must be you. Sir Max is too
                        slow and dignified even to think of scaling the walls of a maiden fortress.
                        It must be you, Sir Karl.' The saucy little elf rose from her chair, bowed
                        low before me and said, 'I do liege homage to the future Duke of Burgundy.'
                        Then she danced across the room,  laughing at
                        my discomfiture. She is charming, Max, but remember Gertrude the Conqueror!
                        Such trifling affairs are well enough to teach a man the a-b-c of life, but
                        one with your destiny ahead of him must not remain too long in his alphabet.
                        Such affairs are for boys, Max, for boys."
                    "Do not fear for me, Karl," answered Max, laughingly. "We are not apt to take
                        hurt from dangers we see."
                    "Do you clearly see the danger?" I suggested.
                    "I clearly see," he responded. "I admire Fräulein Yolanda as I have never
                        admired any other woman. I respect her as if she were a princess; but one of
                        the penalties of my birth is that I may not think of her nor of one of her
                        class. She is not for me; she is a burgher maiden — out of my
                        reach. For that reason I feel that I should respect her."
                    The attitude of Max toward Yolanda was a real triumph of skill and adroitness
                        over inherited convictions and false education. She had brought him from
                        condescension to deference solely by the magic of her art. Or am I wrong?
                        Was it her artless-ness? Perhaps it was her artful artlessness, since every
                        girl-baby is born with a modicum of that dangerous quality.
                    "Perhaps you are right, Karl," added Max. "I may underrate the power of this
                        girl. As you have said, she is a little witch. But beneath her laughter
                        there  is a rare show of tenderness and
                        strength, which at times seems pathetic and almost elfin. You are right,
                        Karl. I will devote myself to Twonette hereafter. She is like a feather-bed
                        in that she cannot be injured by a blow, neither can she give one; but
                        Yolanda — ah, Karl, she is like a priceless jewel that may be
                        shattered by a blow and may blind one by its radiance."
                    But Max's devotion to Twonette was a failure. She was certainly willing, but
                        Yolanda would have none of it, and with no equivocation gave every one to
                        understand as much. Still, she held Max at a respectful distance. In fact,
                        this Yolanda handled us all as a juggler tosses his balls. Max must not be
                        too attentive to her, and he must not be at all attentive to Twonette. In
                        this arrangement Twonette acquiesced. She would not dare to lift her eyes to
                        one upon whom Yolanda was looking!
                    Here was illustrated the complete supremacy of mind over matter. Castleman,
                        Twonette, Franz and his frau, Max and I, all danced when the tiny white hand
                        of Yolanda pulled the strings. A kiss or a saucy nod for Castleman or
                        Twonette, a smile or a frown for Max and me, were the instruments wherewith
                        she worked. Deftly she turned each situation as she desired. Max made
                        frequent efforts to obtain a private moment with her, that he might ask a
                        few questions concerning her wonderful knowledge of his ring — they
                             had been burning him since the night of
                        her sorcery — but, though she knew quite well his desire to
                        question her, she gave him no opportunity.
                    During the time that Castleman was buying his silks, the members of our
                        little party grew rapidly in friendship. In culture, education, and
                        refinement, the Castlemans were far above any burghers I had ever known.
                        Franz and his wife, though good, simple people, were not at all in
                        Castleman's class. They felt their inferiority, and did not go abroad with
                        us, though we supped daily with them. Each evening supper was a little fête
                        followed by a romp of amusement, songs, and childish games in the frau's
                        great parlor.
                    The Castlemans, Max, and I made several excursions into the mountains.
                        Yolanda and Twonette were in ecstasy at the mountain views, which were so
                        vividly in contrast with the lowlands of Burgundy.
                    "These mountains are beautiful," said patriotic Yolanda, "but our lowlands
                        raise bread to feed the hungry."
                    On one occasion we rode to the Falls of Schaffhausen, and often we were out
                        upon the river. During these expeditions Yolanda adroitly kept our little
                        party together, and Max could have no private word with her.
                    I had never been so happy as I was during the fortnight at Basel while
                        Castleman was buying silk.  I was almost a
                        child again; my fifty odd years seemed to fall from me as an eagle sheds his
                        plumes in spring. We were all happy and merry as a May-day, and our
                        joyousness was woven from the warp and woof of Yolanda's gentle, laughing
                        nature. Without her, our life would have been comfortable but
                        commonplace.
                    During all this time Max pondered in vain upon the remarkable manner in which
                        Yolanda had divined the secret of his ring. He longed to question her, but
                        she would not be questioned until she was ready to answer.
                    On a certain morning near the close of our sojourn in Basel, Max, after many
                        elephantine manœuvres, obtained Yolanda's promise to walk out with
                        him to a near-by hill in the afternoon. It was a Sabbath day, and every
                        burgher maiden in Basel that boasted a sweetheart would be abroad with him
                        in the sunshine. Max could not help feeling that it was most condescending
                        in him, a prince, to walk out with Yolanda, a burgher maiden. Should any one
                        from Styria meet him, he would certainly sink into the ground, though in a
                        certain way the girl's reluctance seemed to place the condescension with
                        her.
                    After dinner, which we all took together that day, she put him off with
                        excuses until drowsy Uncle Castleman had taken himself off for a nap. Then
                        Yolanda quickly said:—
                    
                    "Fetch me my hood, Twonette. I shall not need a cloak. I am going to walk out
                        with Sir Max."
                    Twonette instantly obeyed, as if she were a tire-woman to a princess, and
                        soon returned wearing her own hood and carrying Yolanda's.
                    "Ah, but you are not to come with us," said Yolanda. She was ready to give
                        Max the opportunity he desired, and would give it generously.
                    "But — but what will father say?" asked Twonette, uneasily.
                    "We shall learn what he says when we return. No need to worry about that
                        now," answered Yolanda. Twonette took off her hood.
                    Max and Yolanda climbed the hill, and, after a little demurring on the girl's
                        part, sat down on a shelving rock at a point where the river view was
                        beautiful. As usual, Yolanda managed the conversation to suit herself, but
                        after a short time she permitted Max to introduce the subject on which he
                        wished to talk.
                    "Will you tell me, Fräulein," he asked, "how you were enabled to know the
                        history of my ring? I cannot believe you are what you said — a
                        sorceress — a witch."
                    "No, no," she answered laughingly, "I am not a sorceress."
                    "You almost made me believe you were," said Max, "but I am slow of wit, as
                        you have doubtless  observed. I told Sir Karl
                        you said you were a sorceress, and he said —"
                    "You gave me your word you would not tell!" exclaimed Yolanda.
                    "Neither did I tell aught save that you said you were a sorceress. He laughed
                        and said —"
                    "Yes, yes, what did he say?" eagerly queried the girl.
                    "He said — I am sure you will not take amiss what he said?"
                        responded Max.
                    "No, no, indeed no! Tell me," she demanded eagerly.
                    "He said you were a witch, if brown eyes, dimpling smiles, and girlish beauty
                        could make one," answered Max.
                    "Ah, did he say that of me?" asked the girl, musingly. After a pause she
                        continued, "That was kind in Sir Karl and — and evidently sincere."
                        After another pause devoted to revery she said: "Perhaps I shall be his
                        friend sometime in a manner he little expects. Even the friendship of a
                        helpless burgher girl is not to be despised. But he is wrong. I am not
                        beautiful," she poutingly continued. "Now let us examine my face." She
                        laughed, and settled herself contentedly upon the stone, as if to take up a
                        serious discussion. "I often do so in the mirror. Vain? Of course I am!"
                    "I am only too willing to examine it," said Max, laughingly.
                    
                    "My mouth," she said, pursing her lips and lifting her face temptingly for
                        his inspection, "my mouth is —"
                    "Perfect," interrupted Max.
                    She looked surprised and said, "Ah, that was nicely spoken, Little Max, and
                        quickly, for you."
                    "'Little Max'!" exclaimed the young man. "Where heard you that name? No one
                        save my mother has ever used it; no one but Karl and my father has ever
                        heard her speak the words. Did Karl tell you of it?"
                    "Karl did not tell me," she responded, "and I never heard any one speak the
                        name. The name fits you so well — by contraries — that it
                        came to me, perhaps, by inspiration."
                    "That hardly seems possible," returned Max, "and your knowledge of how I
                        received the ring is more than remarkable."
                    "Let us talk about my face," said the girl, full of the spirit of mischief,
                        and wishing to put off the discussion of the ring. "Now, my eyes, of which
                        Sir Karl spoke so kindly, are —"
                    "The most wonderful in the world," interrupted Max. "They are brilliant as
                        priceless jewels, fathomless as deep water, gentle and tender as
                        —"
                    "There, there, Little Max," she cried, checking with a gesture his flow of
                        unexpected eloquence. "I declare! you are not so slow as you seem. I will
                        tell  you just how much of a sorceress I am. I
                        thought to flatter you by saying a great lady had given you the ring, and
                        lo, I was right unless you are adroitly leading me to believe in my own
                        sorcery. Is she a great lady? Come, tell me the story."
                    She unconsciously moved nearer to him with an air of pleasant
                        anticipation.
                    "Yes, it was a great lady, a very great lady who gave me the ring," he said
                        most seriously.
                    "And was I right in my other divination?" she asked, looking down and
                        flushing slightly. "Did — did she wish to marry you? But you need
                        not answer that question."
                    "I will gladly answer it," returned Max, leaning forward, resting his elbow
                        on his knees and looking at the ground between his feet. "I hoped she did. I
                        — I longed for it."
                    "Perhaps she possessed vast estates?" asked the girl, a slight frown
                        gathering on her brow.
                    "Yes, she possessed vast estates," said Max, "but I would gladly have taken
                        her penniless save for the fact that I am very poor, and that she would
                        suffer for the lack of luxuries she has always known."
                    "But how could the lady have felt sure you were not seeking her for the sake
                        of her estates?" asked Yolanda.
                    "She could not know," answered Max. "But I sought her for her own sake and
                        for no other reason."
                    
                    "What manner of person was she?" asked Yolanda. "Was she dark or light, short
                        or tall, plain of feature or beautiful, amiable of temper or vixenish? Was
                        she like any one you have ever seen?"
                    She spoke in deep earnest and looked eagerly up to his face.
                    "She was beautiful of feature," answered Max. "Her eyes and her hair were
                        dark as yours are. She was short of stature, I have been told."
                    Yolanda laughed merrily: "I declare, Sir Max, you were in love with a lady
                        you had never seen. It was her estate you loved."
                    "No, no," said Max, earnestly. "I ardently desired —"
                    "Perhaps if you were to see her, your enthusiasm would vanish," said Yolanda,
                        interrupting him almost sharply. "My magic tells me she is a squat little
                        creature, with a wizened face; her eyes are sharp and black, and her nose is
                        a-peak, not unlike mine. That she is sour and peevish of temper, as I am,
                        there can be no doubt. And, although she be great and rich as the Princess
                        of Burgundy, I warrant you she is not one whit handsomer nor kinder in
                        disposition than I."
                    Max started on hearing Mary of Burgundy's name, but quickly recovering
                        himself said: —
                    "I would not wish her better than you in any 
                        respect. You wrong both yourself and the lady to speak as you do. Those who
                        know her say the lady has not her like in all the world."
                    A soft light came to Yolanda's face as he spoke, and she answered
                        slowly:—
                    "Doubtless the lady had like news of you, and is curious to know what manner
                        of man you are. She too may have dreamed of an ideal."
                    "How do you know she has never seen me?" asked Max, who had not fully caught
                        her reply when she spoke of the fact that he had never seen the lady of the
                        ring. "I shall surely come to believe you are a sorceress."
                    "No, I am not," she answered emphatically. "You shall carry that jest no
                        further. A moment since you said those who know her say so and so, and you
                        believed she was short of stature. Had you ever seen the lady, you would
                        know if she were tall or short. You would not be in doubt upon so important
                        a matter as the stature of your lady-love."
                    The reasoning and the reasoner were so irresistible that Max was easily
                        satisfied.
                    "But you have spoken of the lady as in the past. I hope she is not dead?"
                        asked Yolanda.
                    "No," answered Max, gravely, "our fathers did not agree. That is, her father
                        was not satisfied, and it all came to nothing save a — a heartache
                        for me."
                    It was well that Max was looking at the ground 
                        when she turned the soft radiance of her eyes upon him, else he might have
                        learned too much. His modesty and honesty in admitting frankly that the
                        lady's father was not satisfied with the match pleased her, and she sat in
                        silence, smiling contentedly. After a time she turned almost fiercely upon
                        him: —
                    "Do you know what I should do, Sir Max, were I in your place?"
                    "What would you do, Fräulein?" queried Max.
                    "I would show the lady that I was worthy of her by winning her, even though
                        she were on a throne, guarded by a thousand dragons. I am a woman, Sir Max,
                        and I know a woman's heart. The heart of a princess is first the heart of a
                        woman. Be sure the lady will thank you and will reward you if you fight your
                        way to her and carry her off against all the world."
                    "But how is that to be done, Fräulein?" asked Max, carelessly. In truth, Mary
                        of Burgundy was not uppermost in his heart at that moment.
                    "That is for a man to say and for a man to do," she responded. "A woman knows
                        only how to wait and to long for one who, alas! may never come. She will
                        wait for you, Sir Max, and when you come to her, she will place her hand in
                        yours and go with you wherever you wish to take her. Of this, at least, my
                        powers of sorcery are sufficient to assure you. Do not fear! do not
                        fear!"
                    
                    She spoke earnestly, as if from the depths of a personal experience. Her eyes
                        glowed with the light of excitement and her face was radiant. Max turned to
                        her and saw all this beauty. Then he gently took her hand and said huskily:
                        —
                    "If I thought she were like you, Fräulein, I would gladly go to the end of
                        the world to win from her even one smile."
                    "No, no, Sir Max," said Yolanda, withdrawing her hand, "we must have no more
                        such speeches from you. They are wrong coming from one of your degree to a
                        burgher girl of Peronne, if she be an honest girl. Our stations are too far
                        apart."
                    "That is true, Fräulein," answered Max, sorrowfully, "but I mean no
                        disrespect. I honor you as if you were a princess" — here his tones
                        took energy and emphasis — "but I meant what I said, Fräulein, I
                        meant what I said, and though I shall never say it again, I know that I
                        shall mean it all the days of my life."
                    The expression in her eyes as she looked up at him was one of mingled
                        pleasure and amusement. It seemed to say, "Do not be too sure that you will
                        never say it again," but she said nothing. After a moment she suggested"
                        —
                    "Shall we return, Sir Max?" They rose, and as they started back to Basel he
                        remarked: —
                    "The words 'Little Max' on your lips sounded 
                        sweet to me, Fräulein. They bring home to me the voice of my mother, and
                        though I should not care to hear another speak them, still, the words are
                        very pretty on your lips, and I like them."
                    Yolanda glanced quickly up to him with radiant eyes. He caught the glance,
                        and the last vestige of his ideal, Mary of Burgundy, left his heart, driven
                        out by the very real little enchantress that walked by his side.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    DOWN THE RHINE TO BURGUNDY
                    
                        N
                        OTWITHSTANDING the idle, happy life we were leading, I
                        was anxious to begin our journey to Burgundy. Just what would — or
                        could — happen when we should reach that land of promise —
                        perhaps I should say of no promise — I did not know. I hoped that
                        by some happy turn of fortune — perhaps through Twonette's help
                        — Max might be brought to meet Mary of Burgundy. I had all faith in
                        his ability to please her, or any woman, but what advantage he could gain by
                        winning her regard  could not guess. The lady's personal
                        preference would cut no figure in the choosing of a husband. Her father
                        would do that for her, and she would be powerless against the will of a man
                        whose chief impulses were those of a mad bull. This
                        arrogan duke, without so much as a formal withdrawal, ha
                        ignored Duke Frederick's acceptance and had contracted his daughter's hand
                        to the Dauphin o France, who was a puny, weak-minded boy
                        o fourteen.
                    Should Max and I go to Burgundy and say to 
                        Charles, "This is Maximilian of Styria, to whom you offered your daughter in
                        marriage," his answer might be a sword thrust. Should the duke learn of our
                        unbidden presence in his domain, his love for making enemies would probably
                        bring us into trouble. Therefore, though I ardently wished to begin the
                        journey, I had no real cause to hope for good results, though there were
                        many reasons to fear the outcome of our adventures.
                    One may well ask why I continued in a course so dangerous. My answer is: A
                        man travels the road of his destiny. The Fates sometimes hunt out a man for
                        their purposes and snatch him from his hiding-place in the by-ways, but they
                        usually choose from the scenes of great events their victims or their
                        favorites. The man who fears to be their victim is seldom chosen for their
                        favorite. I should rather be their victim than be overlooked; and what I
                        should have chosen for myself I desired for Max. I had no future save in
                        him; I had been overlooked in the by-ways.
                    At the time of our journeying all Europe turned on a Burgundian pivot, and
                        the Fates were busy in that land. It was the stage of the world, on which
                        the strong, the great, and the enterprising of mankind were playing; and I
                        hoped that Max, who was strong and enterprising, would find his part in this
                        Burgundian drama. I was willing to risk sacrificing  him, though he was dearer to me than the blood of my heart, if
                        I might stand even a small chance to make him great.
                    At strange variance with my philosophy, I had faith in Max's luck. It was
                        more than faith; it was a fixed, intuitive conviction that he would win. For
                        these reasons, all growing out of what I felt rather than what I reasoned,
                        we continued our dangerous and apparently useless journey. When a man feels
                        himself led by an unseen hand, he should gladly follow. There is an
                        intuition that is better than reason
                    
                    One bright morning in May we began our journey down the Rhine. My fears had
                        no place in Max's heart, and his self-confidence was to me a
                        harbinge of good fortune. A man may do anything that h
                        knows he can do; failure never disappoints hi who expects it.
                    We left Basel by the west gate and took the roa for Strasburg,
                        leading down the west bank of the Rhine. That was not the most direct route
                        to Pronne, but it was the safest because of the numerou
                        river towns wherein we might lie safely by nigh The robber barons
                        whom we had to fear along th river were at least not pilfering
                        vagabonds, such a we should meet across country. Against the
                        ope attack of a brave foe we felt that we could make 
                        good defence. Our fighting force consisted of Ma
                         myself, and two lusty squires. We had also a
                        half-score of men who led the sumpter mules.
                    Castleman had purchased two beautiful chargers in Basel, pretending that he
                        wished to take them to Peronne for sale. He asked Max to ride one and
                        offered the other for my use. I was sure that his only reason for buying the
                        horses was his desire to present them to us, which he afterward did. Max
                        named his charger "Night," because of its spotless coat of black. Yolanda
                        rode a beautiful white mare which we re-christened "Day." Castleman bestrode
                        an ambling Flemish bay, almost as fat as its master and quite as
                        good-natured, which, because of its slowness, Yolanda dubbed "Last
                        Week."
                    We travelled slowly down the Rhine, enjoying the scenery and filling our
                        hearts with the sunshine of the soft spring days. Our cautious merchant so
                        arranged our lodging-places that we were never on the road after dark. His
                        system caused much delay, as we often rested a half-day in a town that we
                        might be able to lodge there over night. In this deliberate manner of
                        proceeding, life was a sweet, lazy holiday, and our journey was like a May
                        outing. We were all very happy — almost ominously so.
                    After the explanation between Max and Yolanda on the hill at Basel she made
                        no effort to avoid him, and he certainly did not avoid her. They both
                        evidently rested on his remark that he would never  again speak upon a certain subject. They fully understood each
                        other's position.
                    Max knew that between him and the burgher maiden there could be no thought of
                        marriage. She, it seemed, was equally aware of that fact. All that he had
                        been taught to value in life — father, mother, family and position,
                        his father's subjects, who would one day be his, his father's throne, on
                        which he would one day sit — stood between him and Yolanda. They
                        stood between him and the achievement of any desire purely personal to
                        himself and not conducive to the welfare of his state. He felt that he did
                        not belong to himself; that his own happiness was never to be considered. He
                        belonged to his house, his people, and his ancestors.
                    Max had not only been brought up with that idea as the chief element in his
                        education, but he had also inherited it from two score generations of men
                        and women that had learned, believed, and taugh the same lesson.
                        We may by effort efface the mark of our environment, but those we
                        inherit are bred i the bone. Yolanda was not for Max. He could
                        no control his heart; it took its inheritance of unbidden passion
                        from a thousand scores of generation which had lived and died and
                        learned their lesson centuries before the House of Hapsburg began; but
                        h could control his lips and his acts.
                    With Max's growing love for Yolanda came 
                         knightly reverence which was the very breath
                        of the chivalry that he had sworn to uphold. This spirit of reverence the
                        girl was quick to observe, and he lost nothing by it in her esteem. At times
                        I could see that this reverential attitude of Max almost sobered her
                        spirits; to do so completely would have been as impossible as to dam the
                        current of a mountain stream.
                    On the evening of our first day out of Basel we were merrily eating our
                        suppers in a village where we had halted for the night, when I remarked that
                        I had met a man, while strolling near the river, who had said that war was
                        imminent between Burgundy and Switzerland. My remark immediately caught
                        Yolanda's sharp attention.
                    "Yes," said I, "we left Switzerland none too soon. This man tells me, on what
                        authority I know not, that a herald will soon be sent by Duke Charles
                        carrying defiance to the Swiss. What of value the duke expects to obtain
                        from barren Switzerland outside of Basel, I do not know. Fighting for
                        fighting's sake is poor sport."
                    "Forbear your wise saws, Sir Karl, and tell me what the man said," demanded
                        Yolanda.
                    "He told me," I replied, "that he had heard the news at Metz, and that it was
                        supposed Duke René would muster his forces in Lorraine and turn them against
                        Burgundy in case of war with Switzerland."
                    
                    "I predicted evil when Burgundy took Nancy from Lorraine," cried Yolanda,
                        excitedly. "The hollow conventions made with Lorraine after the capture of
                        that city were but the promises of a man under duress. The only ties that
                        will bind a narrow man are those of immediate self-interest. There can be no
                        lasting treaty between France and Burgundy so long as King Louis covets
                        Flanders and is able to bribe our neighbors. These conventions between
                        Burgundy, Lorraine, Bourbon, and St. Pol will hold only so long as Burgundy
                        does not need them."
                    "That is surely true, Fräulein," I said.
                    "Yes," she continued, "and should Burgundy suffer any great misfortune or be
                        crippled for an hour, those small states would be upon his back like a pack
                        of wolves, and he would be ruined. Lorraine, Bourbon, and St. Pol do not see
                        that Burgundy alone stands between them and the greedy maw of France. Should
                        King Louis survive my — my Lord of Burgundy five years, these dukes
                        and counts will lose their feudal rights and become servile vassals of
                        France, not in name, as now they are, but in sorry fact."
                    I was so astonished at this tempestuous outburst from an unexpected quarter,
                        and was so surprised at discovering an intimate knowledge of great affairs
                        in a simple burgher maid, that I dropped the piece of meat I held in my
                        fingers and stared in wonder across the table at Yolanda. I had known from
                        the  first hour of meeting her that the girl's
                        mind was marvellously keen; but that a maid of seventeen or eighteen, in her
                        position, should have so firm a grasp of international affairs and should
                        possess so clear a conception of the troublous situation in western Europe,
                        astounded me.
                    In eastern Europe, where we were not blinded by neighborly hatred and local
                        jealousies, the truth of Yolanda's statement had long been apparent. We
                        carried our prophecy further and predicted that the headlong passions of
                        Charles the Rash would soon result in his death or overthrow.
                    My point in dragging in this heavy load of political lore is this: In case of
                        the death of Charles of Burgundy, the future of western Europe would depend
                        on the brains and the bravery of the man who should marry the Princess Mary.
                        I felt that Max was chosen of God for that destiny. Should he succeed in
                        defending Burgundy against France, he would become the most powerful man in
                        Europe. No event save death could keep him from achieving the imperial
                        crown.
                    If the existing treaty of marriage between Mary and the Dauphin of France
                        were carried out, and if the Dauphin as king should possess one-half the
                        wisdom of his father, Louis, all western Europe would soon be France. If
                        this treaty were to fail and the Princess Mary espouse a man capable of
                        defending  her territory, Burgundy would still
                        remain a wall of protection to the smaller states of the Rhine.
                    A long silence followed Yolanda's outburst, but her words had so astonished
                        me that my supper for the evening was finished. Castleman plied his knife
                        industriously; Yolanda nibbled at a piece of meat between her dainty
                        fingers, and Twonette gazed serenely out of the open window.
                    Yolanda's words and Castleman's constraint filled me with wonder. There was
                        to me a mystery about this little beauty that had not been touched on by my
                        friend from Peronne. I hoped to gain information on the point by inducing
                        Yolanda to talk. She was willing enough.
                    "Fräulein," I said, "I quite agree with you. It is a matter of surprise to me
                        that these noblemen you mention do not see the truth as you state it."
                    "They are fools, Sir Karl, sodden fools," exclaimed Yolanda. "You could buy
                        their souls for a sou King Louis buys them with an empty promise
                        of one."
                    "Why does not Duke Charles buy them?" I asked. "'Tis said he has enormous
                        quantities of ready gold in Luxembourg Castle."
                    "Because, Sir Karl," she responded almost savagely, "bribery is the weapon of
                        a coward. The Duke of Burgundy uses his money to pay soldiers."
                    "But, Fräulein," I answered, "the duke has for 
                        years—ever since before his father's death—been wasting
                        his money, sacrificing his soldiers, and despoiling his land by wars,
                        prosecuted to no good end. He has conquered large territory, but he has paid
                        for it with the blood of his people. Neither they nor he are the better
                        because of those accessions, and the duke has made enemies who will one day
                        surely wrest them from him. A brave prince should not fear to be called a
                        coward because of an act that will bring peace and happiness to his subjects
                        and save their lives, their liberties, and their estates. That great end
                        will ennoble any means. The subjects of Burgundy are frugal and
                        peace-loving. They should be protected from the cruel cost of useless war. I
                        would not criticise Duke Charles, whose bravery is beyond compare, but for
                        the sake of his people I could wish that his boldness were tempered with
                        caution. Policy, not blows, appears to me the only way out of his present
                        and imminent danger."
                    "Perhaps you are right, Sir Karl," answered Yolanda, "but I advise you to
                        keep your views to yourself when you reach Burgundy. Should they come to the
                        duke's ears, you might lose yours."
                    "Indeed, Fräulein, your warning is unnecessary," I responded laughingly. "I
                        already know the disposition of the duke toward those who disagree with him.
                        His ungovernable passions will surely lead him to a terrible end. Bravery,
                        if wise, is one of the  noblest attributes of
                        man. The lack of wisdom makes it the most dangerous. Duke Charles ought to
                        temper his courage with love for his people. He should fight, when he must,
                        with wise bravery. If he should die, God pity the poor people of Burgundy
                        unless the princess choose a husband both wise and brave."
                    "But she will not be allowed to choose," cried Yolanda, passionately. "Her
                        freedom is less than that of any serf. She is bound hand and foot by the
                        chains of her birth. She is more to be pitied than the poorest maiden in
                        Burgundy. The saddest of all captives is she who is chained to a
                        throne."
                    "That surely is the bitterest draught fate offers to mortal man," sighed
                        Max.
                    "Yes," whispered Yolanda, huskily. "One cannot rebel; one may not even kill
                        one's self when one is condemned to live. One can do nothing but endure and
                        wait in haunting fear and, in rare moments, hope against a million
                        chances."
                    Evidently she meant us to know that she sorrowed for Max's martyrdom, though
                        how she had learned of his true station in life I could not guess.
                    "It is strange," said I to Castleman, when Yolanda and Twonette had left us,
                        "that Fräulein Yolanda, who seems to be all laughter and thoughtlessness,
                        should be so well informed upon the affairs of princes and princesses, and
                        should take this public matter so much to heart."
                    
                    "Yes, she is a strange, unfortunate girl," answered Castleman, "and truly
                        loves her native land. She would, I believe, be another Joan of Arc, had she
                        the opportunity. She and her father do not at all agree. He wholly fails to
                        comprehend her."
                    "Is her father your brother?" I asked. I felt a sense of impertinence in
                        putting the question, but my curiosity was irresistible.
                    "Yes," answered Castleman, hesitatingly; then, as if hurrying from the
                        subject, he continued, "Her mother is dead, and the girl lives chiefly under
                        my roof."
                    I wanted to ask other questions concerning Yolanda, but I kept silent. I had
                        begun to suspect that she was not what she passed for — a burgher
                        girl; but Castleman was a straightforward, truthful man, and his words
                        satisfied me. I had, at any rate, to be content with them, since Yolanda's
                        affairs were none of mine. Had I not been sure that Max's training and
                        inheritance gave him a shield against her darts, she and her affairs would
                        have given me deep concern. At that time I had all the match-making impulses
                        of an old woman, and was determined that no woman should step between Max
                        and the far-off, almost impossible Princess of Burgundy.
                    When we resumed our journey the next morning Yolanda was demure, grave, and
                        serious; but the bright sun soon had its way with her, and within  a half-hour after leaving the village she was
                        riding beside Max, laughing, singing, and flashing her eyes upon him with a
                        lustre that dimmed the sun — a least, so Max thought, and probably
                        he was right.
                    That evening Max told me much of Yolanda's conversation.
                    The road we were travelling clung to the Rhine for several leagues. In many
                        places it was cut from the bank at the water's edge. At others it ran along
                        the brink of beetling precipices. At one of these Max guided his horse close
                        to the brink, and, leaning over in his saddle, looked down the dizzy heights
                        to the river below.
                    "Please do not ride so near the brink, Sir Max," pleaded Yolanda. "It
                        frightens me."
                    Max had little of the braggadocio spirit about him, but no rightly
                        constituted young man is entirely devoid of the desire to "show off" in the
                        presence of timid and interesting ladies. Without that spirit of "show-off,"
                        what would induce our knights to meet in glorious tournaments? Without it,
                        what would our chivalry amount to? Without it, why should a peacock spread
                        its tail? I do not belittle it, since from this spirit of "show-off" arises
                        one great good — respect for the opinion of our fellowman. So Max,
                        with a dash of "show-off" in his disposition, laughed at Yolanda's fears and
                        answered that he was in no danger.
                    
                    "It is very brave in you, Sir Max, to go so near the brink," said Yolanda,
                        ironically, "but do you remember what Sir Karl said concerning 'wise
                        bravery'? There can be no need for your bravery, and therefore no wisdom in
                        it. Were there good reason why you should go near the brink, I should
                        despise you if you refused; but there is no reason and, since it frightens
                        me, I wish you would remain in the road."
                    "Gladly I will," answered Max, reining his horse beside her.
                    "Do you know," said Yolanda, with as much seriousness as she could easily
                        command, "that your friend, Sir Karl, is a philosopher? His phrase, 'wise
                        bravery,' clings to me. I certainly wish the Duke of Burgundy would learn it
                        and take it to heart."
                    "I have heard many conflicting stories concerning this Duke Charles," said
                        Max. "Some persons say he is all that is brave and noble; others declare
                        that he is fierce, passionate, and bad. I wonder which I shall find him to
                        be?"
                    "Do you expect to take service with him?" asked Yolanda, half sadly. At the
                        mention of the duke's name all smiles and dimples fled incontinently.
                    "No," answered Max, "I think I shall not take service with the duke. In
                        truth, I don't know what I shall do. For what purpose I am going to Burgundy
                        I am sure I cannot say."
                    
                    A short silence ensued, which was broken by Yolanda, speaking archly:
                        —
                    "Perhaps you are going to Burgundy or to France to win the lady who gave you
                        the ring?" Max was surprised, and flushed as he answered: —
                    "That would be an impossible thought, Fräulein. If you but knew who the lady
                        is, you would under-stand that such a hope on my part were a phantasy. But I
                        have no such hope or wish. I do not now want to win the lady of the
                        ring."
                    "No, no, Sir Max," said Yolanda, protestingly, "you must not basely desert
                        this lady-love whom you have never seen. If trouble should come to her,
                        whoever she is, you must hasten to her rescue and carry her away. The best
                        opportunity to rob, you know, comes in the midst of a mêlée. Take her, Sir
                        Max. I wish you success."
                    "Do you really wish me success, Fräulein?" asked Max, looking straight ahead.
                        He was not at all flattered by her good wishes concerning the lady of the
                        ring.
                    "Indeed I do," responded the girl, joyously; "I will pray to the Virgin and
                        ask her to help you to win this fair lady who gave you the ring."
                    "I thank you for your good wishes," returned Max" though I could easily be
                        satisfied with less enthusiasm on the subject."
                    "Indeed? Why, may I ask?"
                    
                    "Because, Fräulein — because I had hoped—" Max ceased
                        speaking, and, leaning forward, smoothed his horse's mane.
                    Yolanda waited for a moment and then, turning her face toward Max,
                        asked:—
                    "You had hoped for what, Sir Max?"
                    "I had hoped for nothing, Fräulein," he answered.
                    "I am satisfied as matters now stand between us. Your words at supper last
                        evening rang in my ears all night, 'Chained to a throne; chained to a
                        throne.' I knew you referred to my unhappy lot when you spoke, though how
                        you guessed the truth concerning my station I do not know."
                    A surprised little smile spread over her face, but he did not see it. He was
                        still smoothing his horse's mane.
                    "You cannot know the terrible truth of your words," continued Max. "I will
                        tell you a part of my secret, Fräulein. All my life I have been cut off
                        —chained to a throne — from the fellowship of men and the
                        love of friends. Karl is the only friend I have ever known save my mother
                        until I met you and your good people. Only the good God can know how I have
                        longed and hungered since childhood for friendship; even for companionship.
                        I did not know what I yearned for until since my arrival at Basel. Truly it
                        is not good for man to be alone, even though he be upon a throne. I am not
                        upon a throne,  Fräulein, but I am near
                        one—a small, barren throne, whose greatest attribute is its
                        ancestry. My home is a sad, lonely place—how lonely even you, who
                        have guessed so shrewdly and who speak so eloquently, cannot know. You
                        should thank God for your lowly birth and your lowly friends."
                    "I do," the girl answered, with a queer, half-sad, half-amused expression
                        upon her face which Max could not interpret.
                    "But we cannot break the chains that have been welded a thousand years
                        — that have grown stronger and tighter with each generation," said
                        Max. "You truthfully said, 'One may only endure.'"
                    "I also said that at rare moments one may hope," she answered, with drooping
                        head.
                    "Not I, Fräulein. I may not even hope. I am doomed," answered Max.
                    "No, no, Sir Max," responded the drooping head.
                    After a prolonged silence Max said, "I am sure the secret of my station is
                        safe with you."
                    "You need not doubt, Sir Max," she responded.
                    "You cannot know how safe it is." She turned brightly upon him and continued,
                        "Let me invoke my spirits, Sir Max." She raised her eyes, saint-fashion,
                        toward heaven, and spoke under her breath: "I hear the word 'hope.' Sir Max,
                        'hope.' It is very faint, but better faint than not at all."
                    "I tell you there is no hope for me, Fräulein," 
                        responded Max, desperately. "It is cruel in you to say there is. It is
                        doubly cruel to speak jestingly."
                    "I speak earnestly," said Yolanda. "There is hope. If you win the lady who
                        gave you the ring, you will be happy. I do not jest."
                    "You do. You mock me," cried Max. "I tell you, Yolanda, there is in all the
                        world no woman for me save—save one upon whom I may not think."
                        Yolanda's face grew radiant, though tears moistened her eyes. "Even though
                        it were possible for me to defy my parents, to turn my face against my
                        country, my people, and the sacred traditions of my house, by asking her to
                        share my life, there could be only wretchedness ahead for her, and therefore
                        unhappiness for me. The dove and the eagle may not mate. Consider the fate
                        of sweet Agnes Bernauer, who married Duke Albert and perished in the Danube.
                        I tell you, Fräulein, I am hopeless. When I return to my people, I shall do
                        so knowing that life thereafter will be something to endure, not a blessing
                        to thank God for."
                    "No, no, Sir Max," murmured the girl, "you do not know."
                    Max turned upon her almost angrily:—
                    "A man knows when he lives; a man knows when he is dying, and a man, if he be
                        worthy of the name, knows when he loves a woman. I am not more sure that the
                        sun shines, Fräulein, than I am  that I shall
                        not forget this woman nor cease to sorrow for her all the days of my
                        life."
                    "You must not speak such words to me, Sir Max," said Yolanda, reprovingly.
                        "I, too, must live and be happy if — if I can."
                    She turned her face away from Max and, touching her horse with her whip,
                        passed a few feet ahead of him. If there were tears in her eyes, she did not
                        wish Max to see them. After several minutes of silence he spurred his horse
                        to her side.
                    "I did not intend to speak, Fräulein. I once said I would never speak again.
                        I should not have spoken now, though I have told you only what you already
                        know. I ask no favor in return, not even a touch from your hand."
                    "You shall have that at least, Sir Max," she answered, impulsively reining
                        her horse close to Max and placing her hand in his.
                    "Still, you wish me to win the lady who sent me the ring?" asked Max.
                    "Yes," returned Yolanda, softly. "It will mean your happiness and mine
                        —" Suddenly checking herself, she explained: "I shall be happy if
                        you are. A man cannot know how happy a woman may be for another's sake."
                    I felt no desire to reprove Max when he told me of his day's adventure with
                        Yolanda, since I could in no way remedy the evil. In fact, Max was growing
                        out  of my jurisdiction. He had listened to my
                        lectures and advice since childhood and had taken them kindly, because my
                        authority grew out of my love for him and his love for me. He was a boy when
                        we left Styria, but he was a man when we were journeying down the Rhine.
                        Though the confidential relations between us had grown closer, my advice was
                        gradually taking the form of consultation. I did not seek his confidences,
                        and he gave them more freely, if that were possible, than ever before. I did
                        not offer my advice so readily, but he sought it more frequently. Max told
                        me the sorrowful little story of the day, and I did not comment on it. I
                        simply led him in another direction.
                    "Fräulein Yolanda's words have given me food for thought," I said. "So long
                        as Duke Charles lives, there can be no union between Burgundy and Hapsburg;
                        but at the pace he is travelling he will surely receive his coup de grâce before long, and I hope you will meet and know the
                        princess before the tragedy occurs. Then declare yourself and back you claim
                        with the duke's proposal, which has never been withdrawn. That the people of
                        Burgundy hate France and this French marriage there can be no doubt. They
                        are fools for so doing, but we may easily profit by their lack of wisdom. In
                        the event of the duke's death the inclinations of the princess will be half
                        the battle. So long as he lives they are no part of it.  If, by the help of Twonette, you should be so fortunate as to
                        meet the princess, our dream may be realized, and our house may become the
                        greatest in Europe."
                    "I suppose you are right, Karl," answered Max. "You are always right; but I
                        have no heart in this matter, and I hope nothing will come of it. I have
                        never known you to be so cold-blooded as in this affair."
                    "If you are to be hot-blooded, or even warm-blooded, you must turn your back
                        on your house and cast from you the duties and privileges of your birth," I
                        observed.
                    "You are right," he answered irritably. "But it will be difficult for me to
                        please one woman while thinking of another. Ah, Karl, I am growing tired of
                        this Burgundian dream. Dream? It is almost a nightmare."
                    Max's words did not alarm me; he was "chained to a throne." He would not fail
                        me if the hour of good fortune should come.
                    "Your thoughts of another woman will not stand in your way," I said.
                        "Experience is more necessary in dealing with women than in any other of
                        life's affairs, and this episode with Yolanda is what you need to prepare
                        you for—for what I pray you may have to do."
                    "Karl, please do not talk of this — this — my feeling for
                        Yolanda as an episode," he said, speaking 
                        almost angrily. "It is a part of my life, and will be my sorrow as long as I
                        live."
                    The boy's anger warned me that if I would lead him, I must do it gently.
                    "I believe, Max, you speak truly," I said; "but it will not be an unmixed
                        evil. Good will come of it, since the image of a pure woman injures no man's
                        heart. It keeps him in the narrow way and guides his hand for
                        righteousness."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    WHO IS YOLANDA
                    NEXT morning Yolanda came to breakfast smiling, bedimpled, and sparkling as a
                        sunlit mountain brook. Max, who was gloomy, took her sprightliness amiss,
                        thinking, no doubt, that her life also ought to be darkened by the cloud
                        that he thought was over shadowing him. There was no doubt in my mind that
                        Yolanda had inspired a deep and lasting passion in Max, though he was, I
                        hoped, mistaken in the belief that it would darken his life. But I would not
                        give a kreutzer for a young fellow who does not feel that life is worthless
                        without his lady-love.
                    Yolanda did not take kindly to clouds of any sort and she soon scattered
                        those that Max had conjure up. After we had resumed our journey
                        Max fe back to ride with her.
                    "Sir Max," she said, "if you allow yourself  become The Knight
                        Doleful, I will not only  having speech with you, but I will laugh
                        at you.
                    The latter she did then and there. This from burgher girl of Peronne to a
                        prince of the House  Hapsburg! The good duke and duchess would ha
                         swooned with horror had they known of it. Max
                        was inclined to be angry, but, unfortunately for his ill-humor, he caught a
                        glimpse of her face, and he, too, laughed.
                    "I fear I am a great fool," he said. Yolanda did not contradict him. She
                        simply shrugged her shoulders as if to say, "That unfortunate condition is
                        apt, at times, to overtake the best of men."
                    Soon our little cavalcade came together, and we rode, laughing, and all
                        talking at once, for a league or more.
                    Our road had parted from the river at one of its great bends, and for an hour
                        we had been slowly climbing a long hill. When we reached the top, we
                        unsaddled for dinner in the shade of a tree by the wayside. A hundred yards
                        from the road was a dense copse of undergrowth and bushes on the edge of the
                        forest. Off to the east flowed the majestic Rhine, a league distant, and to
                        the north ran the road like a white ribbon, stretching downhill to the
                        valley and up again to the top of another hill, distant perhaps a
                        half-league.
                    While we were eating dinner, a cloud of dust arose from the hilltop north of
                        us, and immediately began descending in our direction. At intervals, in the
                        midst of the dust-cloud, we caught glimpses of men on horseback riding at
                        full gallop. This unwelcome sight brought our dinner to an end. I at once
                             ordered the sumpter mules taken to the
                        copse on the forest's edge, and directed every man to look to his arms and
                        armor. I asked Twonette and Yolanda to go with the mules, and Yolanda became
                        angry.
                    "I go with the mules? Sir Karl, you forget yourself," cried
                        the young lady, drawing herself up with the dignity of a princess royal.
                        Twonette ran as rapidly as her feet could take her to seek refuge with the
                        mules, but Yolanda, with flashing eyes, declared:
                    "I will remain here."
                    I felt that an apology was due to this burgher girl.
                    "I will gladly apologize later, Fräulein, but now I have only time to beg
                        that you will conceal your self. These men probably are robbers. If they see
                        you, we shall be compelled to fight them, however great their numbers. If we
                        find their force too large for us, we may easily ransom the mules and their
                        packs, but we could make no terms for you. If they are Black Riders, they
                        will prefer a little gold to a great deal of silk, but they will prefer you
                        and Fräulein Twonette to a great deal of gold."
                    "I would not pay them one piece of gold," cried Yolanda, defiantly. "Give me
                        an arquebuse. I will help you fight."
                    The brave little heroine astonished me.
                    "Would you prefer that Max or your good uncle 
                        and perhaps some of our poor mule-leaders should be killed by these
                        pigstickers," I asked, "or would you compound with them in some reasonable
                        way? Shall we fight them?"
                    "No, no," she answered, "wise bravery is better. I suppose I shall learn the
                        lesson some day."
                    While the troop of horsemen were under the crest of the hill, Yolanda ran
                        across the open to a place of concealment beside Twonette. Hardly was she
                        hidden when the dust-cloud rose from the brink of the hill, and five men,
                        well though roughly armed, galloped up to us and drew their horses back upon
                        their haunches.
                    "What have we here?" demanded the captain, a huge German. Their grimy armor
                        and bearded faces besmeared with black marked them as Black Riders. I was
                        overjoyed to see that they numbered but five.
                    "What is that to you?" I asked, putting on a bold front, though I feared our
                        mule-leaders would make but a sorry fight should we come to blows.
                    "That depends on what you have," responded our swart friend, coolly.
                        "Whatever you have, so much it is to us."
                    "What will you take in gold, my good man, and let us go our way in peace with
                        our cargo of silks?" asked Castleman.
                    "By your leave, friend," said I, interrupting the  negotiations, "I am in command when fighting is to be done. Let me settle
                        with this fellow."
                    "Settle now, if you are so keen," cried the big German, drawing his sword and
                        spurring his horse upon me. I could not have withstood the unexpected
                        onrush, and certainly would have met with hard blows or worse, had not Max
                        come to my rescue. I hurriedly stepped back, and the German, in following
                        me, rode near a large stone by the roadside. He had, doubtless, passed the
                        stone many times in his travels up and down the road, but the thought
                        probably had never occurred to him that it would be the cause of his death.
                        The most potential facts in our lives are usually too insignificant to
                        attract attention.
                    When the German charged me, Max sprang upon the stone and dealt the swart
                        ruffian a blow such as no man may survive. Max's great battle-axe crushed
                        the Black Rider's helmet as if it were an egg-shell, and the captain of our
                        foes fell backward, hanging by his stirrups. One of our squires shot one of
                        the robbers, and the remaining three took flight. Max caught the captain's
                        horse, and coolly extricated the dead man's feet from the stirrups. Then he
                        thrust the body to the roadside with the indifference of a man whose life
                        has been spent in slaughter. Among his many inheritances, Max probably had
                        taken this indifference, together with his instinctive love of  battle. He was not quarrelsome, but he took to
                        a fight as naturally as a duck takes to water.
                    When the robbers had left, Yolanda came running from her hiding-place. She
                        was not frightened; she was aglow with excitement. She, too, must have
                        inherited the love of battle. Twonette was trembling with fear.
                    "Ah, Sir Max, it was beautifully done," said Yolanda. "You sprang upon the
                        rock with the quickness of a panther, and the blow was dealt with the
                        strength of a lion. I saw it all. When your battle-axe rose above the
                        robber's head, death was written on the steel. It was beautiful to see you
                        kill him, Sir Max. Strength is always beautiful in the eyes of a woman, but
                        it is doubly so when used in her defence and linked with 'wise bravery.' I
                        thank you, Sir Karl, for teaching me that word. Sir Max, I — I
                        cannot thank you now."
                    She stopped speaking and covered her face with her hands. In a moment she
                        partly recovered composure and smiled her gratitude through a little shower
                        of tears. Max was, of course, aglow with pleasure at Yolanda's praise, but
                        he bore his honors meekly. He did not look upon his tremendous feat of arms
                        as of much importance.
                    Fearing the return of the Schwartreiter with reënforcements, we lost no time
                        in resuming our journey. Max and Yolanda quickly finished their dinner, but
                             Castleman, Twonette, and myself did not
                        care to eat.
                    Within ten minutes after Max had killed the captain of the Black Riders we
                        were on our road travelling downhill, very joyful in our victory and very
                        proud of our knight, Sir Max. We left the dead men by the roadside, but took
                        with us two fine horses as compensation for our trouble. The captain's great
                        charger Max appropriated for his own. He will appear again in this
                        chronicle.
                    We rode silently but joyfully. Twonette slowly recovered from her fright, and
                        the pink crept back to her cheeks. The pink had not left Yolanda's cheeks,
                        nor had her nerves been disturbed by the adventures of the morning. Max
                        tried hard to suppress his exuberance of spirit, and Yolanda laved him in
                        the sunshine of her smiles.
                    Within three hours we were safely housed at a village by the Rhine.
                        Castleman, finding me alone, said:—
                    "You, Sir Karl, and Sir Max little know the value of the friend you have made
                        this day."
                    "I thank you, good Castleman," I answered, hardly liking so great an air of
                        condescension on the part of a burgher. An afterthought suggested that
                        perhaps Castleman had not referred to himself as the friend we had made.
                        Strange thoughts and speculations had of late been swarming in my mind  until they had almost taken the form of a
                        refrain, "Who is Yolanda?" Though the question repeated itself constantly by
                        day and by night, I received no whisper of an answer.
                    We travelled slowly, and it was not until the second day after our conflict
                        with the Black Riders that we found ourselves near Strasburg. A league from
                        the city gates we met Raoul de Rose, a herald of the Duke of Burgundy.
                        Yolanda recognized his banner at a distance and hastily veiled herself.
                        Twonette remained unveiled.
                    We halted, and De Rose, who was travelling alone, safe under a herald's
                        privileges, drew rein beside Castleman and me, who had been riding in
                        advance of our cavalcade. While Castleman was talking to De Rose, Yolanda
                        and Twonette rode forward, passing on that side of the highway which left
                        Castleman and me between them and the herald.
                    "Ah, good Castleman," said De Rose, "you are far from home these troublous
                        times."
                    "Your words imply bad news, monsieur," returned Castleman. "I have already
                        heard hints of trouble, though all was quiet when I left Peronne."
                    "When did you leave?" asked the herald.
                    "More than two months ago," answered Castleman.
                    "With our rapidly moving duke, two months is ample time to make a deal of
                        trouble, to gain victories, and to compel peace among his quarrelsome  neighbors," answered De Rose. "It is publicly
                        known that I carry defiance to the Swiss. They cannot comply with Burgundy's
                        terms, and war will surely follow. Our duke will teach these Swiss sheep to
                        stop bleating, and when this war is finished, the dominion of Burgundy will
                        include the Alps. Duke Charles will have fresh ice for his dinner every day
                        — ice from the mountain tops."
                    "That is all he will get from the barren Swiss land, I fear," remarked
                        Castleman.
                    "But if he wants it?" answered De Rose, shrugging his shoulders.
                    "Yes," returned Castleman, "if the duke wants it, God give it him; but I am
                        sorry to see war with so peaceful a people as the Swiss."
                    "There are many persons in Burgundy foolish enough to agree with you,"
                        answered De Rose, laughingly, "but for my part, the will of my master is my
                        will."
                    "Amen!" said the cautious burgher.
                    De Rose smiled, and said:—
                    "There is but one will in Burgundy, and that will be done."
                    "Where is the duke?" asked Castleman.
                    "He is at home in Ghent," answered the herald.
                    "Is he to remain there?" asked the burgher, displaying a sudden interest.
                    "I believe he goes soon to Peronne to look after  his affairs on the French border, and to see the duchess and the princess
                        before leaving for Switzerland. It is also publicly known that the duke,
                        while at Peronne, intends to arrange for the immediate marriage of the
                        princess to the Dauphin. He wishes to tie the hands of King Louis before
                        making war elsewhere, and he is going to Peronne to cause this marriage to
                        be celebrated before he leaves Burgundy."
                    "Sacred God!" exclaimed the usually phlegmatic burgher. "We must hasten home.
                        Farewell, Monsieur de Rose. Your news indeed is bad — your news of
                        war."
                    Castleman urged "Last Week" to an unwonted pace, and drew rein beside
                        Yolanda. I followed slowly, and unintentionally overhead him say:
                        —
                    "Your father will soon be in Peronne. The duke leaves Ghent within a day or
                        two."
                    "Holy Virgin!" cried Yolanda, excitedly. "We must make all haste, good uncle.
                        Hereafter we must travel night and day. We must double our retinue at
                        Strasburg and hasten forward regardless of danger and fatigue. I wish we
                        were across Lorraine and well out of Metz. If this war begins, Lorraine will
                        surely turn upon Burgundy."
                    "I begged you not to come upon this journey," said Castleman,
                        complainingly.
                    "I know you did, uncle," returned Yolanda, repentantly.
                    
                    "But you would come," continued Castleman, determined to give vent to his
                        feelings. "I could not dissuade you, and now if the duke leaves Ghent
                        — if your father reaches Peronne—before we return, God
                        help us all."
                    "Yes, dear uncle," said Yolanda, humbly; "as usual, I was at fault. I have
                        been a source of trouble and danger to you nearly all my life, and you, of
                        all persons in the world, I would make happy."
                    I was riding ten paces behind Castleman, but the wind came toward me, and I
                        was an involuntary listener. What I had heard was of such tremendous import
                        to Max that I could not bring myself to rein back my horse, though I
                        despised myself for listening. I believe that moment was, of all my life,
                        the greatest test of my love for Max. No less a motive could have induced me
                        to become and eavesdropper. Castleman was silent for a short time, and then
                        I heard him say:—
                    "You have also brought me happiness, Yolanda, and I shall be wretched when
                        your father takes you from me. Twonette is not dearer to me than you.
                        Whatever befalls, I shall still thank God for the happiness He has given me
                        in you."
                    "Ah, uncle, your kind words almost break my heart," said Yolanda, placing her
                        kerchief to her eyes. "I wish you would not forgive me for having  brought you into this hard case. I wish you
                        would upbraid me. I will pray to the Blessed Virgin night and day to protect
                        you from this trouble my wilfulness has brought upon you. Never again will I
                        be wilful, dear uncle, never again — with you. At Strasburg I will
                        make an offering to the Virgin."
                    "Make her an offering of this young man on whom you are smiling," suggested
                        Castleman. "I would have left him at Basel but for your wilfulness and
                        entreaties. We know nothing of him save that he is big, honest, brave,
                        gentle, and good to look upon. I have already warned you against the great
                        favor you show him. I shall not do so again. I advise that we leave him at
                        Metz."
                    "I will do as you advise," said Yolanda, mourn-fully. "I will offer even
                        this, my first great happiness, to the Virgin. Surely it will propitiate
                        her."
                    This conversation almost deprived me of the power to think. In a dimly
                        conscious fashion, I wondered whether Castleman could possibly have meant
                        the Duke of Burgundy when he told Yolanda that her father would soon be at
                        Peronne. I could find no other meaning for his words, and I was almost ready
                        to believe that the brown-eyed, laughing Yolanda was none other than the
                        far-famed Mary of Burgundy, whose tiny hand was sought by every nation of
                        Europe having a marriageable king or prince.
                    
                    Kings in their dotage and princes in their nonage wooed her. Old men and
                        babes eagerly sought the favor of this young girl, and stood ready to give
                        their gold, their blood, and the lives of their subjects on even the shadow
                        of a chance to win her. The battle-field and the bower alike had been
                        wooing-ground for her smiles. After all this, she had been affianced to the
                        Dauphin of France, and her father would bring the marriage about within a
                        few weeks. To this girl I had thought to be gracious, and had feared that I
                        might be too condescending. I then realized what a pitiable ass a man may
                        make of himself by giving his whole time and attention to the task.
                    Of course I was not sure that Yolanda was the princess. Her father, spoken of
                        by Castleman, might be, and probably was, a great lord in the duke's train.
                        Yolanda might be the love-daughter of Charles of Burgundy. Many explanations
                        might be given to Castleman's remarks; but I could not help believing that
                        Yolanda was the far-famed Burgundian princess. If so, what a marvellous
                        romance was this journey that Max and I had undertaken, and what a fantastic
                        trick fate had played in bringing these two from the ends of the earth to
                        meet in the quaint old Swiss city. It seemed almost as if their souls had
                        journeyed toward each other, since the beginning of time.
                    
                    That the princess should be abroad with Castleman and his daughter unattended
                        by even a lady-in-waiting seemed improbable — almost
                        impossible.
                    My wavering mind veered with each moment from the conviction that Yolanda was
                        the princess to a feeling of certainty that she was not, and back again.
                        That she was the princess seemed at one moment indubitably true; the next
                        moment it appeared absurdly impossible. Still, Castleman's words rang in my
                        ears.
                    I was glad that Max was riding a hundred yards behind me. My first
                        determination was that he should know nothing of what I had heard. My second
                        was that he and I should leave the party at Metz. If I were to disclose to
                        Max my suspicions concerning Yolanda, I well knew that it would be beyond my
                        power or that of any man to prevent his journeying to Peronne.
                    This meeting with the princess far from home, one might suppose, was the
                        event of all others that I desired, but the situation presented many points
                        to be considered. If we should conduct Yolanda to Peronne and should reach
                        that city after the duke's arrival, there would be untold trouble for us, if
                        (oh, that mighty if!) she were the Princess Mary. I was thoroughly
                        frightened, since I could not know what trouble I might bring to Max. We
                        might, with comparative safety, visit Peronne at a later period; but I  sincerely hoped that Yolanda would offer Max
                        to the Virgin when we reached Metz.
                    If Yolanda were the princess, and if the duke with his intentions regarding
                        her immediate marriage, should reach Peronne and find his daughter absent,
                        his wrath against all concerned would be unappeasable. If he should learn
                        that she had been absent from Peronne on this journey, even though she
                        reached home before her father, Castleman would probably lose his head for
                        the crime of taking her, and all concerned in the journey might meet with
                        evil fortune. Any of these catastrophes might occur if she were the
                        princess. If she were not the princess, some other great catastrophe, hinted
                        by Castleman and dreaded by Yolanda, might happen; and it is well for
                        disinterested persons to remain away from the scene of impending trouble.
                        Aside from all these good reasons for cutting short our journey to Peronne,
                        was the fact that our motive for going there had ceased to exist. The
                        princess was soon to become the wife of the Dauphin.  Yolanda were
                        not the princess, there was still good reason why we should abandon her at
                        Metz. She was dangerously attractive and was gaining too great a hold on
                        Max. We were under contract to escor Castleman to Peronne, and no
                        danger should prevent from fulfilling our agreement; but if Castleman should
                        voluntarily release us, our obligation would cease.
                    
                    As we passed under the portcullis at Strasburg, Max spurred his horse to
                        Yolanda's side. She neither lifted her veil nor gave any sign of
                        recognition. The news of impending war had been discussed, and Max supposed
                        Yolanda was frightened. He spoke reassuringly to her, and she
                        answered:—
                    "I thank you, Sir Max, but our danger is greater than you know."
                    It was four o'clock when we reached Strasburg, where we stopped at The
                        Cygnet. Soon after we entered the inn, Twonette and Yolanda went forth,
                        heavily veiled, and walked rapidly in the direction of the cathedral.
                        Yolanda was going to make her offering to the Virgin of the man she loved;
                        surely woman could make no greater.
                    When Yolanda and Twonette had gone, Castleman asked me to assist him in
                        procuring a score of men-at-arms. They might be needed in crossing Lorraine
                        from Strasburg to Metz.
                    "I shall travel night and day till we reach home," said Castleman. "I have
                        news of war that hastens us, and—and it is most important that
                        Yolanda should deliver certain papers at the castle before the duke arrives
                        at Peronne. If she reaches the castle one hour or one minute after the duke,
                        the results will be evil beyond remedy."
                    "I sincerely hope there may be no delay," I answered, believing that the
                        papers were an invention of Castleman's.
                    
                    "Yes," responded the burgher; "and, Sir Karl, I deem it best for all
                        concerned that you and Sir Max part company with us at Metz. I thank you for
                        your services, and hope you will honor us by visiting Peronne at some future
                        time. But now it is best that you leave us to pursue our journey with out
                        you."
                    Castleman's suggestion was most welcome to me and I communicated it to Max
                        when I returned to the inn. He was sorrowful; but I found that he too, felt
                        that he should part from Yolanda.
                    Castleman and I found the burgomaster, to whom we paid five hundred guilders
                        (a sum equal to his entire annual salary), and within an hour a troop of
                        twenty men-at-arms awaited us in the courtyard of The Cygnet. Castleman
                        barely touched his meat at supper, though he drank two bottles of
                        Johannesburg; Max ate little, and I had no appetite whatever.
                    When Yolanda returned, I said:—
                    "Fräulein, will you not eat?"
                    "I do not care to eat," she replied, and I could easily see that she was
                        struggling to keep back the tears. "Let us resume our journey at once. I see
                        the men-at-arms are waiting."
                    Our rare days of sunshine had surely been weather breeders. We were all under
                        a dark cloud.
                    We left Strasburg by the north gate, and, as the  city fell back of us, Max, riding by my side, asked:—
                    "What is the evil news that has cast this gloom over Yolanda and good
                        Castleman? If our friends are in danger, I would not leave them at Metz, and
                        you would not have me do so."
                    "The evil news grows out of the war," I answered evasively. "I heard every
                        word spoken by the herald and Castleman. The burgher is wise to hasten home.
                        If he delays his journey even for a day, he may find
                        Burgundy—especially Lorraine—swarming with lawless men
                        going to the various rendezvous. He also tells me he has important papers
                        that must be delivered in the castle before the duke arrives at
                        Peronne."
                    "It is strange," said Max, "that news of merely a general nature should
                        produce so gloomy an effect; but, if you heard all that De Rose said, that
                        must be the only cause."
                    "I cannot say," I responded, "what the cause may be. All I know is that De
                        Rose spoke of the impending war, and said that the duke was hastening to
                        Peronne for the purpose of consummating the French marriage at once. There
                        is now no reason why we should journey to Peronne. My air-castles have
                        crumbled about my ears in fine shape."
                    "I am not sorry, Karl," replied Max. "During the last fortnight I have
                        changed. Should my marriage  with the
                        princess, by any marvellous chance, become possible, it would now be wholly
                        for the sake of her estates, and I despise myself when I try to think that I
                        wish to bring it about. Ah, Karl, it is now impossible even to hope for this
                        marriage, and I tell you I am glad of it. We will see the world, then we
                        will return to Styria; and I shall thank you all my life for having made a
                        man of me."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    DUKE CHARLES THE RASH
                    OUR caravan travelled with the mournfulness of a funeral procession. Early in
                        the evening Max spoke to Yolanda:—
                    "I hear your uncle desires Sir Karl and me to leave you at Metz."
                    "Yes," she answered dolefully, hanging her head, "we part at Metz. I shall
                        see you there before I leave, and then — and then —ah, Sir
                        Max, I was wrong and you were right; there is no hope."
                    "What of the lady who gave me the ring?" asked Max, in a feeble effort to
                        banter her.
                    "She would have made you very happy, Sir Max. Her estates would have
                        compensated for all losses elsewhere."
                    "You know, that is not true, Yolanda," said Max, earnestly.
                    "I am not sure, Sir Max," responded the girl, "and do not wish to be sure. I
                        will see you at Metz, and there we may part. It is our fate. We must not be
                        doleful, Sir Max, we must be—we must be—happy and brave."
                        Her poor little effort to be happy and brave was piteous.
                    
                    Castleman soon fell back with Yolanda, and Max rode forward beside me.
                    At midnight we offsaddled by a stream in a forest and allowed our horses and
                        mules to rest until sunrise. Then we took up our journey again, and by
                        forced marches reached Metz one morning an hour before dawn. We waited in a
                        drizzling rain till the gates opened, and, after a long parley with the
                        warder, entered the city. We were all nearly exhausted, and our poor mules
                        staggered along the streets hardly able to carry their burdens another step.
                        Two had fallen a half-league outside of Metz; and three others fell with
                        their loads within the city gates.
                    Castleman had determined to stop with a merchant friend, and after what
                        seemed a long journey from the gates we halted at the merchant's house. Our
                        host left us in his parlor while he went to arrange for break-fast. When he
                        had gone Castleman turned to me:—
                    "You and Sir Max will, if you please, find good lodging at the Great Tun. My
                        friend will send a man in advance to bespeak your comfort."
                    Max and I rose to leave, and Yolanda offered him hand, saying:—
                    "It may be that we are to part here at Metz, but I will send for you soon and
                        will see you before we leave, and — and —" She could not
                        speak further; tears were in her eyes and her voice. It was not so easy
                        after all to be happy and brave.
                    
                    "You will not fail to send for me?" asked Max, clinging to her hand.
                    "I will not fail," she answered, looking up timidly and instantly dropping
                        her eyes. "Of that you have better assurance than you will ever know."
                    Castleman followed us to the street door and handed me a purse of gold.
                    "I have expected to part from you here," he said, "and it may be so; but I
                        fear I shall need your services still further. My mules are unfit to travel
                        at present; they may never be fit to use; surely not within a fortnight. I
                        must find other sumpter mules, wait for those I have to regain their
                        strength, or leave my goods at Metz. My fortune is invested in these silks,
                        and if I leave them here, I shall never see them again. In case the Duke of
                        Lorraine succeeds in rallying his subjects against Burgundy, I shall find it
                        difficult to buy sumpter mules on the eve of war, and may be compelled to
                        remain in Metz until my own mules are able to travel. In that event may I
                        depend upon you and Sir Max to escort my niece and my daughter to Peronne
                        without me?"
                    I answered promptly, though against my desires:—
                    "You may depend on us."
                    At midnight I was aroused by a knock at my door. I arose and admitted
                        Castleman.
                    "I will take you at your word, Sir Karl," said the burgher. "I cannot obtain
                        sumpter mules, and I  shall be ruined in
                        fortune if I leave my silks at Metz. I have had word that the Duke of
                        Burgundy leaves Ghent the day after to-morrow for Peronne. If he leaves late
                        in the day, you may, by starting at once, reach Peronne Castle ahead of him.
                        His journey will be shorter than yours by twenty-five leagues, but you will
                        have a better road. If you travel with all haste, you may be able to take
                        Yolanda, with — with the important papers, to the castle a half-day
                        before my lord arrives there. Are you ready to begin the journey at
                        once?"
                    "We are ready," answered Max.
                    "I will meet you at the Deutsches Thor Gate within an hour," said Castleman.
                        "My daughter and my niece will be there. Since you are to travel rapidly I
                        advise a small retinue. Your squires have proved themselves worthy men, and
                        I feel sure you will be able to protect your charges."
                    "We'll not boast of what we shall do, good Castleman," said Max, "but we'll
                        do our best."
                    "If you reach Peronne after the duke arrives," said Castleman, "I advise you
                        not to enter the gates of the city, but to leave Burgundy at once and with
                        all the speed you can make. If you reach Peronne before the duke, I advise
                        you not to tarry; but if you determine to remain, you will go to The Mitre
                        —a quiet inn kept by my good friend Marcus Grote. I strongly advise
                        you not to remain at Peronne; but if  you do
                        not see fit to follow my advice, I hope you will remain close at The Mitre
                        until my return, which, I trust, will be within three weeks. Danger will
                        attend you if you do not follow my suggestion. In any case, Sir Max, I hope
                        you will not visit my house. My words may seem ungracious, but they are for
                        your good and mine. When I return to Peronne, I shall be happy if you will
                        honor my poor house; but until my return, untold trouble to many persons may
                        follow your disregard of what I say."
                    Castleman then departed, and we immediately arranged for the journey.
                    Max and I, with our squires, were waiting at the Deutsches Thor Gate when
                        Castleman arrived with Twonette, Yolanda, and a guide. I knocked at the door
                        of the lodge to rouse the warder, who, of course, was asleep, and that alert
                        guardian of a drowsy city came grumbling to the wicket.
                    "What in the devil's name do you want at this time of night?" he growled.
                        "The gates won't open till dawn."
                    "Yes, they will," replied Castleman. "I have the burgomaster's order."
                    "I open the gates only on an order from the governor of the citadel," said
                        the warder.
                    "I have not that, my good friend," responded Castleman, "but I have a hundred
                        silver marks in my purse."
                    
                    "Let me see the burgomaster's order," said the worthy gatekeeper. "I am
                        always glad to be accommodating."
                    Castleman handed over the order and the purse, and the warder pretended to
                        read the paper in the dark.
                    "I'll open the gate to accommodate you and to please the burgomaster," he
                        said.
                    The gates screeched upon their hinges, and every link in the portcullis chain
                        groaned as if it wished to alarm the city. When the portcullis was a-block,
                        Max, myself, and the squires mounted our horses. Yolanda leaned down from
                        her saddle and, placing her arms about Castleman's neck, kissed him.
                        Twonette followed her example; then our small cavalcade passed out
                        through the gate, and we entered on our long, hard race with the Duke of
                        Burgundy.
                    At dawn Yolanda called me to her side.
                    "Our guide will conduct us to Cinq Voies on the Somme, eight leagues this
                        side of Peronne," she said. "There we shall dismiss him. From Cinq Voies the
                        road is straight to Peronne down the river. Shall we put our horses to the
                        gallop?"
                    To her last suggestion I objected:—
                    "We have no relays. These horses must carry us to Peronne. In Styria we have
                        an adage, 'If you would gallop on a long journey, walk your horse.'"
                    "In Styria!" exclaimed Yolanda, laughing. "You told me you were from
                        Italy."
                    
                    "So I am," I replied.
                    "Now you say we have an adage in Styria," she returned,
                        amused at my discomfiture. "I hope you have not been wandering from the path
                        of truth in your long journey, Sir Karl."
                    "No farther than yourself, Fräulein," I answered.
                    A frown came instantly to her face and, after a moment's hesitation, she
                        retorted: —
                    "Ah, but I am a woman; I am privileged to wander a little way from the narrow
                        road. A man may protect himself with his sword and battle-axe, and need
                        never stray. A woman's defence lies in her wit and her tongue." The frown
                        deepened, and she turned sharply upon me: "But in what respect, pray, have I
                        wandered? I have not spoken a word to you which has not been the exact
                        truth. If I have left anything untold, it is because I do not wish to tell
                        it, in which case, of course, you would not wish to pry."
                    Her audacity amused me, and though I knew I ought to hold my tongue, I could
                        not resist saying: —
                    "I have asked no questions, Fräulein."
                    Yolanda cast a surprised glance toward me and then broke into a merry
                        laugh.
                    "That is to say I have asked too many questions. Good for
                        you, Sir Karl! I have had the worst of this encounter. I will ask no more
                        questions nor give you further cause to wander from the truth.
                    
                    Your memory, Sir Karl, is poor. 'To be a good liar, one must have a good
                        memory,' as King Louis of France has said."
                    "Ask all the questions you wish, Fräulein," I responded penitently, "I will
                        answer with the truth."
                    "There is no need to ask questions," she said, giving me a side glance full
                        of sauciness. "I already know all that I wish to know."
                    I could not resist saying: —
                    "Perhaps, Fräulein, I know quite as much about you as you know about us."
                    "There is little to know about me that is really worth while, but what little
                        there is I sincerely hope you do not know," she replied half angrily. "If
                        you do know anything which I have left untold, or if, in your vanity, you
                        think you have discovered some great mystery concerning me, I advise you to
                        keep your supposed knowledge to yourself. The day that I am made sure you
                        know too much, our friendship ceases, and that, Sir Karl, would give me
                        pain. I hope it would pain you."
                    I at once began an orderly though hasty retreat "I do not know to what you
                        refer concerning yourself," I explained. "All I know about you is that you
                        are Fräulein Castleman, and a very charming person, whom I would have for my
                        friend, if that be possible. I spoke but jestingly. I have often  doubted that you are a burgher maiden, but
                        there my knowledge ceases; and I am willing that it should so remain till
                        you see fit to enlighten me."
                    "There is little knowledge in doubt," said Yolanda, with a nervous laugh,
                        "though a doubt usually precedes wisdom."
                    Although I was looking at my horse's ears, I could see the light of her eyes
                        as she watched me inquiringly. After a long pause she stroked her horse's
                        mane with her whip, and said, musingly: —
                    "A man should seek to know only the languages, philosophy, and other useful
                        learning. Useless knowledge has cost many a man his head."
                    After a long pause she turned to me with a broad smile: —
                    "But it is usually not dangerous so long as it does not lodge in the
                        tongue."
                    I replied quickly: —
                    "Fräulein, when my tongue makes a fool of me, I pray God I may lose it."
                    "God save all fools by a like fate," she answered.
                    I was sure she did not mean to include me in the category of fools.
                    This conversation revealed to me two facts: first, I learned that by some
                        means — possibly the ring Max wore — this girl, Yolanda,
                        whoever she might be, knew Max. Second, I discovered in myself a dangerous
                        propensity to talk, and of all sure roads to ruin  the tongue is the surest. A man's vanity prompts him to be
                        witty; hatred prompts him to cut his enemy, and his love of truth often
                        prompts him to speak it at the wrong time. These three motive combined often
                        prompt him to lose his head. Max and I were on dangerous ground, and one
                        untimely error might make it perilous.
                    We travelled rapidly, and near midnight of the second day out of Metz we
                        reached Cinq Voies on the Somme. The village, consisting of a large inn, a
                        church, a priest's house, and a farrier's shop, is situate at the meeting of
                        five roads, from which the hamlet takes its name. One road led down from
                        Cambrai and Ghent in the north, one from Liège in the northeast, and the one
                        over which we had travelled from Metz came out of the southeast. Two roads
                        led westward to Peronne. One followed the right bank of the Somme, passed
                        Peronne, and thence on to Amiens. Another road followed the left bank of the
                        Somme, touched Peronne, and thence ran southwesterly to Paris.
                    When we reached Cinq Voies on the Somme — within eight leagues of
                        Peronne — we halted for supper, very tired and weary. While supper
                        was preparing we held a consultation, and determined to rest there for the
                        night. I advised against this course, believing that the duke would pass
                        that way on his road from Ghent to Peronne. But Yolanda's sweet face  was pinched by weariness, and Twonette was
                        sound asleep. Our horses, I feared, might fail, and leave us hopelessly in
                        the lurch. Therefore, I gave the command to offsaddle, and we halted at the
                        inn for the night.
                    Our host told me his house was full of guests who had arrived two hours
                        before, but he found a room for Yolanda and Twonette, and told Max and me to
                        sleep, if we could, on the tap-room floor. After an hour on the hard boards
                        I went to the stable, and, rousing a groom, gave him a silver crown for the
                        privilege of sleeping on a wisp of hay. I fell asleep at once and must have
                        slept like the dead, for the dawn was breaking when one of our squires
                        wakened me. I could not believe that I had been sleeping five minutes, but
                        the dim morning light startled me, and I ordered the horses saddled.
                    I hastened to the inn and wakened Max, to whose well-covered bones a board
                        was as soft as a feather bed. While I was speaking to him, I heard a noise
                        in an adjoining room and saw the door opening. Max and I barely escaped
                        through an open arch when a commanding figure clad in light armor entered
                        the tap-room.
                    I had not seen Charles of Burgundy since he was a boy — he was then
                        Count of Charolois — but I at once knew with terrifying certainty
                        that I looked on the most dreaded man in Europe. He had changed  greatly since I last had seen him. He was
                        then beardless; now he wore a beard that reached almost to his belt, and I
                        should not have recognized in him the young Count of Charolois. There was,
                        however, no doubt in my mind concerning his identity.
                    Even had I failed to see the angry scar on his neck of which I had often
                        heard, or had I failed to note the lack of upper teeth (a fact known to all
                        Europe) which gave his face an expression of savagery, I should have
                        recognized him by his mien. There was not another man like him in all the
                        world, and I trust there never will be. His face wore an expression of
                        ferocity that was almost brutal. The passions of anger, arrogance, and
                        hatred were marked on every feature; but over all there was the stamp of an
                        almost superhuman strength, the impress of an iron will, the expression of
                        an exhaustless energy, and the majesty of a satanic bravery. If Yolanda was
                        the daughter of this terrible man, and if he should discover that I had her
                        hidden in the room above his head, I should never eat another breakfast.
                        Truly, Max and I were on perilous ground.
                    Max remained in concealment, and I climbed the stairs, two steps at a time,
                        to Yolanda's room. I gently knocked, and received a sleepy response.
                    "Rise at once," I whispered. "I must speak to you instantly."
                    "Enter — we are already dressed," answered Yolanda.
                    
                    When I entered she had risen from the bed and was rubbing her eyes.
                    "We were so tired we slept in our garments. Don't we show it?" said
                        Yolanda.
                    Her hands were above her head, vainly endeavoring to arrange her hair, which
                        had fallen in a great tumble of dark curls over her shoulder. Rest had
                        flushed her cheeks, and her lips and her eyes were moist with the dew of
                        sleep. Though my business was urgent I could not resist exclaiming:
                        —
                    "Ah, Fräulein, you surely are beautiful."
                    "I thank you, Sir Karl," she answered, flashing a smile upon me. "You may
                        kiss my hand."
                    She offered me her hand and asked: —
                    "But what is your news?"
                    While she spoke I heard voices and the tramping of hoofs beneath the window
                        in front of the inn, and turned to look. I quickly drew away from the window
                        and beckoned Yolanda: —
                    "Come here, Fräulein."
                    She came to my side, and as she looked out upon the road two men emerged from
                        the inn door. One of them was the Duke of Burgundy. She clutched my arm and
                        whispered excitedly: —
                    "Watch them, Sir Karl! Note the road they take! If they go by the right, we
                        shall take the left. We must reach Peronne Castle before
                        the duke. Death itself hangs upon the issue, Sir Karl."
                    
                    I watched till the duke and all his people had left the inn; then I followed
                        till I saw them take the road leading down the right bank of the Somme. When
                        I returned to the inn, I paid the score, and gave each member of our little
                        party a boule of bread to be eaten as we rode; and within
                        five minutes after the duke's departure we were fording the Somme to take
                        the left bank for Peronne.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    A RACE WITH THE DUKE
                    NEITHER road clung to the river in all its windings, but at too frequent
                        intervals both touched the stream at the same points. At places the roads
                        hugged the Somme, separated only by its width — perhaps two hundred
                        yards. These would be our danger points. I did not know them, and Yolanda's
                        knowledge of the road was imperfect.
                    Soon after leaving Cinq Voies, the road on the right bank — the one
                        taken by the duke — gained a mile over the road on the left by
                        cutting across a great bend in the river around which we had to travel. We
                        therefore lost the duke's cavalcade at the outset.
                    Hoping to pass the duke before the roads came again within sight of each
                        other, we urged our horses to full speed. But the duke also was travelling
                        rapidly, as we learned when we reached the first point of contact. Should
                        the duke's men see us they would certainly hail. Four men in armor and two
                        ladies, travelling the road to Peronne would not be allowed to pass
                        unchallenged. Fortunately, just before the danger point, a clump of trees
                        and underbushes grew between  our road and the
                        river. Max, who was riding a hundred yards in advance, suddenly stopped and
                        held up his hand warningly. We halted immediately, and Max turned back to
                        us, guiding his horse to the roadside to avoid raising a dust-cloud.
                    We listened in silence, and I beckoned the squires to our sides. The men of
                        our little party all dismounted and stood by their horses' heads, ready to
                        strike the noses of the animals should they offer to salute the horses
                        across the river with a neigh. Had not our danger been so great it would
                        have been amusing to see each man, with uplifted hand, watching the eyes of
                        his horse as intently as though they were the eyes of his lady-love. Yolanda
                        laughed despite the danger, but covered her mouth with her hand when I
                        frowned warningly.
                    Presently we heard the tramping of horses and the voices of men across the
                        river, and soon the duke approached at a canter. I could not help
                        speculating on the consequences should His Grace know that Yolanda was
                        watching him — if Yolanda were his daughter.
                    That "if" would surely be the death of me.
                    When the duke had passed a little way down the road, I peered through the
                        bushes and saw the dust-cloud ahead of us.
                    We could not venture from our hiding-place till the duke was out of sight,
                        and by the delay we lost a  good half-league
                        in our race. I asked Yolanda if she knew how far it was to the next point of
                        contact. She did not know, but I learned from a peasant that the river made
                        a great bend, and that our road gained nearly a league over the other before
                        each again touched the river. This was our great chance.
                    We put our horses to their best; and when we again reached the river, Max,
                        who was riding in advance, announced that the other cavalcade was not in
                        sight. If it had passed, our race was lost; if it had not, we felt that we
                        could easily ride into Peronne ahead of Duke Charles. At that point the
                        roads followed the river within a stone's throw of each other for a great
                        distance. If the duke had not reached this point, our need for haste was
                        greater than ever before. We must be beyond the open stretch before the
                        other cavalcade should come up to it.
                    Our poor blown horses were loath to run, but we urged them to it. When we had
                        covered half this open road, we took to the sod at the roadside to avoid
                        raising a telltale cloud of dust. After a hard gallop we reached a forest
                        where the road again left the river. Here we halted to breathe our horses
                        and to watch the road on the right bank. After ten minutes we became uneasy
                        and began to fear that the duke's cavalcade had passed us, but Max insisted
                        that our fears were groundless.
                    
                    "Their dust could not have settled so quickly," he declared. "We should see
                        at least traces of it. They cannot have passed."
                    "One cannot help believing," said Yolanda, musingly, "that there are men who
                        command the elements. One would almost say they make the rain to fall or to
                        cease, the wind to rise or to drop, to suit their purposes, and the dust to
                        lie quietly beneath their horses' feet. I pray God we may soon know, else I
                        shall surely die of suspense."
                    "There are also some persons, Fräulein, whom God answers quickly," said Max,
                        looking under his hand down the road. "Do you see yonder dust-cloud? It is a
                        good two miles back of us."
                    "It may not be the duke," said Yolanda, doubtingly.
                    "Let us trust it is," said Max, "and lose no more time here."
                    We watered our horses at a small brook and entered the forest, feeling that
                        our race was won. The exultation of victory was upon Yolanda, and her
                        buoyant spirits mounted to the skies. All fear and gloom had left her. She
                        laughed and sang, and the sunshine of her humor filled all our hearts with
                        delight. Since leaving Metz we had travelled so rapidly, and a cloud of
                        uncertainty and fear was so constantly over us, that Yolanda had spoken
                        little to Max or to any one; but now that victory was in her grasp, she  intended to waste not one moment more in
                        troubled thoughts and painful fears.
                    "Ride beside me, Sir Max," she cried, beckoning him as if she were a great
                        princess and he her page. Max spurred his horse to her side, and after a
                        moment Twonette fell back with me. I overheard all that was said between Max
                        and Yolanda, and though I do not pretend to quote accurately, I will give
                        you the substance of their conversation.
                    "I cannot help laughing," she said, suiting the action to the word, "over our
                        tragic parting at Metz. We were separated a whole day!"
                    "But we supposed it was to be for a very long time," said Max. "We —
                        that is, I — feared I should never see you again. As it was, the
                        day seemed long to me, Fräulein."
                    The girl laughed joyously. She had, you remember, offered Max to the Virgin
                        at Strasburg. Perhaps part of her joy was because the Queen of Heaven had
                        returned him to her.
                    "I should like to try a separation for many days," she said.
                    "You will soon have the opportunity," returned Max, with wounded vanity. She
                        paid no heed to his remark, and continued: —
                    "The second day would not seem so long to you. The third would be still
                        shorter, and at the end of a fortnight — nay, at the end of a week
                        — you would  wonder how you were ever
                        brought to fix your eyes on a poor burgher girl, even for a passing moment
                        — you, a great lord. You see, I have no vast estates to hold you
                        constant, such as those possessed by the forward lady who sent you the
                        letter and the ring. Do you know, Sir Max, if I were very fond of you,
                        — if I were your sweetheart, — I should be jealous of this
                        brazen lady, very jealous."
                    There was a glint in her eyes that might have caused one to believe the
                        jealousy already existed.
                    "Your raillery ill becomes you," said Max, half sullenly. "If I forget my
                        rank and hold it of small account for your sake, you should not make a jest
                        of it."
                    You see, he had not entirely washed out of himself the ceremonious starch of
                        Hapsburg.
                    She glanced quickly toward him and answered poutingly: —
                    "If you don't like my jesting, Sir Max, you may leave me to ride alone."
                    "You asked me to ride with you," returned Max, "but if you have changed your
                        mind and insist on being ill-tempered, I will —"
                    She reached out her hand, and, grasping his bridle reins, threw them over the
                        pommel of her saddle.
                    "Now let me see what you will do, my great Lord Somebody," she cried
                        defiantly. "You shall not only ride beside me, but you shall also listen  good-humoredly to my jests when I am pleased
                        to make them, and bear with my ill-humor when I am pleased to be
                        ill-humored."
                    Max left the bridle-reins in her hand, but did not smile. She was not to be
                        driven from her mood.
                    "You are such a serious person, Sir Max, that you must, at times, feel
                        yourself a great weight — almost burdensome — to carry
                        about." She laughed, though his resentment had piqued her, and there was a
                        dash of anger in her words. "Ponderous persons are often ridiculous and are
                        apt to tire themselves with their own weight — no, Sir Max, you
                        can't get away. I have your reins."
                    "I can dismount," returned Max, "and leave you my horse to lead."
                    He turned to leave his saddle, but she caught his arm, rode close to his
                        side, and, slipping her hand down his sleeve, clasped his hand — if
                        a hand so small as hers can be said to clasp one so large as his.
                    A beautiful woman is born with a latent consciousness of her power over the
                        subjugated sex. Max found in the soft touch of the girl's hand a wonderful
                        antidote to her sharp words. She continued to hold his hand as compensation
                        while she said, laughing nervously:—
                    "Sir Max, you are still young. A friend would advise you: Never lose a chance
                        to laugh, even though it be at your own expense. There will  always be opportunity to grieve and be
                        gloomy. I tell you frankly, Sir Max, I almost wept when I bade you good-by
                        at Metz. Now, I am telling you my state secret and am giving you more than
                        you have asked."
                    Max joyfully interrupted her:—
                    "I can forgive you all your raillery, Fräulein, for that admission."
                    "Yes, I confess it is a very important admission," she said, in half-comic
                        seriousness, "but you see, I really did weep when I parted from my great
                        mastiff, Cæsar, at Peronne."
                    The saucy turn was made so quickly that its humor took Max unawares, and he
                        laughed.
                    "There, there! Sir Max, there is hope for you," she cried exultantly. Then
                        she continued, stealing a side glance at him, "I loved Cæsar very, very
                        much."
                    There was a satisfying implication in her laughing words, owing to the fact
                        that she had almost wept at Metz. Max was eager to take advantage of the
                        opportunity her words gave him, for his caution was rapidly oozing away; but
                        he had placed a seal on his lips, and they were shut — at least,
                        for the time. His silence needed no explanation to Yolanda, and she
                        continued laughingly:—
                    "Yes, I almost wept. Perhaps I did weep. I will not say truly that I did not,
                        Sir Max, but  within an hour I was laughing at
                        my foolish self and feared that you, too, would be laughing at me. I
                        wondered if in all the world there was another burgher maiden so great a
                        fool as to lift her eyes to a mighty lord, or to think that he could lower
                        his eyes to her with true intent."
                    At that point in the conversation I felt that the seal upon Max's lips would
                        not stand another attack. I sure to melt; so I rode to Yolanda's side and
                        interrupted the interesting colloquy.
                    Max supposed the girl to be of the burgher class, and if by any chance she
                        were Mary of Burgundy, he might ruin his future, should he become too
                        insistent upon his rank in explaining the reasons why he could not follow
                        the path of his inclinations. He might make himself ridiculous; and that
                        mistake will ruin a man with any woman, especially if she be young and much
                        inclined to laugh.
                    During the foregoing conversation we had been travelling at a six-mile
                        canter. The day was warm, and I suggested breathing the horses in the shade
                        of the forest.
                    "I believe we are approaching the river," I said, "and we should rest the
                        horses before taking a dash over the open road."
                    Yolanda assented — in a manner she seemed to have taken command of
                        the party — and we halted under the trees. Max rode forward to a
                        point from  which he could view the other
                        road, and waved his hand to let us know that the duke was not in sight. We
                        immediately put spurs to our horses and covered the stretch of open road by
                        the river in a short, brisk gallop. On leaving the road again we saw no
                        indication of the duke's cavalcade. Evidently the race was ours by an easy
                        canter. From that point to within two miles of Peronne, Yolanda's song was
                        as joyous as that of a wooing bird. The sun beat down upon us, and blinding
                        clouds of dust rose from every plunge of our horses' hoofs; but Yolanda's
                        song transformed our hot, wearisome journey into a triumphant march.
                        Happiness seemed to radiate from her and to furnish joy for all.
                    For a stretch of two miles up river from Peronne the roads approached each
                        other, but, owing to an intervening marsh, they were fully half a mile
                        apart. We, or at least Yolanda, had apparently forgotten the duke when, near
                        the hour of eight in the morning, we approached the marsh; but when we
                        entered the open country we saw, to our consternation, the duke's cavalcade
                        within one mile of Peronne. Where they had passed us we did not know, nor
                        did we stop to consider. They were five minutes ahead, and if we could not
                        enter Peronne in advance of them, it were no worse had they been a day
                        before us.
                    Yolanda cast one frightened glance toward the duke's party, and struck her
                        horse a blow with her  whip that sent it
                        bounding forward at a furious gallop. We reached the river and were crossing
                        as the duke entered Cambrai Gate — the north entrance to the city.
                        We would enter by the gate on the south known as the Somme Gate; Cambrai
                        Gate was nearer the castle.
                    The duke, I supposed, would go directly to the castle; where Yolanda would go
                        I could not guess. From outside the Somme Gate we saw the duke enter
                        Cambrai, but after we had passed under the arch we could not see him for a
                        time because of intervening houses. The huge, grim pile of stone known as
                        Peronne Castle loomed ominously on the opposite side of the small town.
                        Yolanda veiled herself before passing under the gate and hastened, though
                        without conspicuous speed, toward the castle.
                    I afterward learned that there was but one entrance to the castle from the
                        town. It was known as the Postern, though it had a portcullis and a
                        drawbridge spanning the moat. To the Postern the duke took his way, as we
                        could see at intervals by looking down cross streets. Yolanda did not follow
                        him. She held her course down a narrow street flanked by overhanging eaves.
                        Looking down this street, I could see that it terminated abruptly at the
                        castle wall, which rose dark and unbroken sixty feet above the ground.
                    At the end of this street a stone footbridge spanned  the moat, leading to a strip of ground perhaps one hundred
                        yards broad and two hundred long that lay between the moat and the castle
                        wall. At either end of this strip the moat again turned to the castle. The
                        Cologne River joined the moat at the north end of this tract of ground and
                        flowed on by the castle wall to the Somme. In a grove of trees stood a large
                        two-story house of time-darkened stone, built against the castle wall. One
                        could not leave the strip of ground save by the stone footbridge, unless by
                        swimming the moat or scaling the walls.
                    When we reached the footbridge, Yolanda and Twonette, without a word of
                        farewell, urged their horses across, and, springing from their saddles,
                        hurriedly entered the house. Max and I turned out horses' heads, and, as we
                        were leaving the foot-bridge, saw the duke's cavalcade enter the Postern,
                        which was perhaps three hundred yards back and north of the strip on which
                        stood the House under the Wall.
                    To reach the Postern in the castle wall from the footbridge one must go well
                        up into the town and cross the great bridge that spans the Cologne; then
                        back along the north bank of the river by the street that leads to the
                        Postern. From the House under the Wall to the Postern, by way of the Cologne
                        bridge, is a half-hour's walk, though in a direct line as the crow flies, it
                        may be less than three hundred  yards. Neither
                        Max nor I knew whether our journey had been a success or a failure.
                    We rode leisurely back to the centre of the town, and asked a carter to
                        direct us to Marcus Grote's inn, The Mitre. We soon found it, and gave mine
                        host the letter that we bore from Castleman. Although the in the morning had
                        not yet struck, Max and I eagerly sought our beds, and did not rise till
                        late in the afternoon. The next morning we dismissed our squires, fearing
                        they might talk. We paid the men, gave them each a horse, and saw them well
                        on their road back to Switzerland. They were Swiss lads, and could not take
                        themselves out of Burgundy fast enough to keep pace with their desires.
                    Notwithstanding Castleman's admonition, Max determined to remain in Peronne;
                        not for the sake of Mary the princess, but for the smile of Yolanda the
                        burgher girl. I well knew that opposition would avail nothing, and was quite
                        willing to be led by the unseen hand of fate.
                    The evening of the second day after our arrival I walked out at dusk and by
                        accident met my friend, the Sieur d'Hymbercourt. He it was to whom my
                        letters concerning Max had been written, and who had been responsible for
                        the offer of Mary's hand. He recognized me before I could avoid him, so I
                        offered my hand and he gave me kindly welcome.
                    
                    "By what good fortune are you here, Sir Karl? he asked.
                    "I cannot tell," I answered, "whether it be good or evil fortune that brings
                        me. I deem it right to tell you that I am here with my young pupil, the
                        Count of Hapsburg."
                    Hymbercourt whistled his astonishment.
                    "We are out to see a little of the world, and I need not tell you how
                        important it is that we remain unknown while in Burgundy. I bear my own
                        name; the young count has assumed the name of his mother's family and wishes
                        to be known as Sir Maximilian du Guelph."
                    "I shall not mention your presence even to my wife," he replied. "I advise
                        you not to remain in Burgundy. The duke takes it for granted that Styria
                        will aid the Swiss, or at least will sympathize with them in this brewing
                        war, and I should fear for your safety were he to discover you."
                    "I understand the duke recently arrived in Peronne?" I asked.
                    "Yes," answered Hymbercourt, "we all came yesterday morning."
                    "How is the fair princess? Did she come with you?" I asked, fearing to hear
                        his reply.
                    "She is well, and more beautiful than ever before," he answered. "She did not
                        come with us from Ghent; she has been here at the castle with her  stepmother, the Duchess Margaret. They have
                        lived here during the last two or three years. The princess met her father
                        just inside the Postern, lovely and fresh as a dew-dipped rose."
                    "She met her father just inside the Postern?" I asked, slowly dropping my
                        words in astonishment. "She was in the castle yard when her father entered,
                        —and at the Postern?"
                    "Yes, she took his hand and sprang to a seat behind him," answered
                        Hymbercourt.
                    "She met him inside the Postern, say you?" I repeated musingly.
                    "What is there amazing about so small an act?" asked Hymbercourt. "Is it not
                        natural that she should greet her father whom she has not seen for a
                        year?"
                    "Indeed, yes," I replied stumblingly, "but the weather is very hot, and
                        — and I was thinking how much I should have enjoyed witnessing the
                        meeting. She doubtless was dressed in gala attire for so rare an occasion?"
                        I asked, wishing to talk upon the subject that touched me so nearly. Yolanda
                        was in short skirts, stained and travel-worn, when she left us.
                    "Indeed she was," answered Hymbercourt. "I can easily describe her dress. She
                        loves woman's finery, and I must confess that I too love it. She wore a
                        hawking costume; a cap of crimson — I  think it was velvet — with little knots on it and gems scattered
                        here and there. A heron's plume clasped with a diamond brooch adorned the
                        cap. Her hair hung over her shoulders. It is very dark and falls in a great
                        bush of fluffy curls. When her headgear is off, her hair looks like a black
                        corona. She is wonderfully beautiful, wonderfully beautiful. Her gown was of
                        red stuff. Perhaps it was of velvet like the cap. It was hitched up with a
                        cord and girdle, with tassels of gold lace and — and — Sir
                        Karl, you are not listening."
                    "I am listening," I replied. "I am greatly interested. Her gown —
                        she wore a gown — she wore a gown —"
                    "Yes, of course she wore a gown," laughingly retorted Hymbercourt. "Your
                        lagging attention is what I deserve, Sir Karl, for trying in my lame fashion
                        to describe a woman's gear to a man who is half priest, half warrior. I do
                        not wonder that you did not follow me."
                    I had heard him, but there was another question dinning in my ears so loudly
                        that it drowned all other sounds — "Who is Yolanda?"
                    Yolanda was entering the door of the House under the Wall less than five
                        minutes before I saw the duke pass through the Postern. Marcus Grote had
                        told me there were but two openings to the castle, the Postern and the great
                        gate on the other  side of the castle by the
                        donjon keep. To reach the great gate one must pass out by Cambrai or the
                        Somme Gate and go around the city walls — an hour's journey.
                    With an air of carelessness I asked Hymbercourt concerning the various
                        entrances to the castle. He confirmed what Grote had said. Considering all
                        the facts, I was forced to this conclusion: If the Princess Mary had met the
                        duke at the Postern, Yolanda was not the Princess Mary.
                    The next day I reconnoitred the premises, and again reached the conclusion
                        that Yolanda could not have met the duke inside the Postern unless she were
                        a witch with wings that could fly thither over the castle walls; ergo, she
                        was not the princess. With equal certainty she was not a burgher girl.
                    In seeking an identity that would fit her I groped among many absurd
                        propositions. Yolanda might be the duke's ward, or she might be his
                        daughter, though not bearing his name. My brain was in a whirl. If she were
                        the princess, I wished to remain in Peronne to pursue the small advantage
                        Max had assuredly gained in winning her favor. The French marriage might
                        miscarry. But if she were not the princess, I could not get my Prince Max
                        away from her dangerous neighborhood too quickly. I could not, of course,
                        say to Max, "You shall remain in Peronne," or "You shall leave Peronne at
                        once;"  but my influence over him was great,
                        and he trusted my fidelity, my love, and my ability to advise him rightly. I
                        had always given my advice carefully, but, above all, I had given him the
                        only pleasurable moments he had ever known. That, by the way, may have been
                        the greatest good I could have offered him.
                    When Max was a child, the pleasure of his amusements was smothered by
                        officialism. My old Lord Aurbach, though gouty and stiff of joint, was eager
                        to "run" his balls or his arrows, and old Sir Giles Butch could be caught so
                        easily at tag or blind man's buff that there was no sport for Max in doing
                        it. Everything the boy did was done by the heir Styria, except on rare
                        occasions when he and I stole away from the castle. Then we were boys
                        together, and then it was I earned his love and confidence. At such times we
                        used to leave the Hapsburg ancestry to care for itself and dumped Hapsburg
                        dignity into the moat. But the crowning good I had brought to him was this
                        journey into the world. The boy loathed the clinging dignities that made of
                        him, at home, a royal automaton, tricked out in tarnished gold lace, faded
                        velvets, and pompous airs. He often spoke of the pleasures I had given him.
                        One evening at Grote's inn I answered: —
                    "Nonsense, Max, nonsense," though I was so pleased with his gratitude I could
                        have wept.
                    
                    "It is not nonsense. You have saved me from becoming a mummy. I see it all,
                        Karl, and shudder to think of the life that might have been mine. I take no
                        pleasure in seeing gouty old dependents bowing, kneeling, and smirking
                        before me. Of course, these things are my prerogative, and a man born to
                        them may not forego what is due to his birth even though it irks him. But
                        such an existence — I will not call it living — saps the
                        juice of life. Even dear old mother is compelled to suppress her love for
                        me. Often she has pressed me to her breast only to thrust me away at the
                        approach of footsteps. By the way, Karl," continued Max, while preparing for
                        bed, "Yolanda one day at Basel jestingly called me 'Little Max.'"
                    "The devil she did," I exclaimed, unable to restrain my words.
                    "Yes," answered Max, "and when in surprise I told her that it was my mother's
                        love-name for me, she laughed saucily, 'Yes, I know it is.'"
                    "The dev — Max, you can't mean what you say?" I cried, in an ecstasy
                        of delight over the news he was telling me.
                    "Indeed I do," he returned. "I told her I loved the name as a sweet reminder
                        of my mother."
                    "What did she say?" I asked.
                    "She seemed pleased and flashed her eyes on me — you know the way
                        she has — and said: 'I, too, like 
                        the name. It fits you so well — by contraries.' Where could she
                        have learned it, and how could she have known it was my mother's love-name
                        for me?"
                    "I cannot tell," I answered.
                    So! here was a small fact suddenly grown big, since, despite all evidence to
                        the contrary, it brought me back to my old belief that this fair, laughing
                        Yolanda was none other than the great Princess of Burgundy. I was sure that
                        she had gained all her information concerning Max from my letters to
                        Hymbercourt.
                    It racks a man's brain to play shuttle-cock with it in that fashion. While I
                        lay in bed trying to sleep, I thought of the meeting between the duke and
                        the princess at the Postern, and back again flew my mind to the conviction
                        that Yolanda was not, and could not possibly be, the Princess Mary. For days
                        I had been able to think on no other subject. One moment she was Yolanda;
                        the next she was the princess; and the next I did not know who she was.
                        Surely the riddle would drive me mad. The fate of nations — but,
                        infinitely more important to me, the fate of Max — depended upon
                        its solution.
                    Castleman had told us to remain at the inn until his return, and had exacted
                        from Max, as you will remember, a promise not to visit the House under the
                        Wall, which we had learned was the home of our burgher friend. We therefore
                        spent our days  and evenings in Grote's garden
                        near the banks of the river Cologne.
                    One afternoon, while we were sitting at a table sipping wine under the shade
                        of a tree near the river bank, Max said: —
                    "I have enjoyed every day of our journey, Karl.
                    I have learned the great lesson of life, and am now ready to go back to
                        Styria and take up my burden. We must see our friends and say farewell to
                        them. Then —"
                    "You forget the object of our journey to Burgundy," I answered.
                    "No, I have not forgotten it," he replied. "I had abandoned it even before I
                        heard of the impending French marriage."
                    "Not with my consent, Max," I answered almost fiercely. "The princess is not
                        yet married, and no one can foresee the outcome of these present
                        complications into which the duke is plunging. We could not have reached
                        Burgundy at a more auspicious time. God's hand seems to have been in our
                        venture. If evil befall the duke, there will be an open gate for you, Max,
                        — a gate opened by fate."
                    I could not, by my utmost effort, force myself entirely away from the belief
                        that Yolanda was the princess, and I was near to telling Max of my
                        suspicions; but doubt came before my words, and I remained silent. Before
                        many days I was glad of my caution.
                    
                    "I knew," said Max, "that I would pain you, Karl, by this determination to
                        return to Styria without so much as an effort to do — to do what we
                        — what you wished; but it must be as I say. I must leave Burgundy
                        and go back to my strait-jacket. I have lived my life, Karl, I have had my
                        portion of sweet joy and sweeter pain. The pain will give me joy as long as
                        I live. Now for my duty to my father, my house, and my ancestors."
                    "But your duty to all these lies here in Peronne," I answered, almost stifled
                        by the stupendous import of the moment.
                    "I suppose you are right," sighed Max, speaking gently, though with decision.
                        "But that duty I'll shirk, and try to make amends in other ways. I shall
                        never marry. That, Karl, you may depend upon. Styria may go at my death to
                        Albert of Austria, or to his issue."
                    "No, no! Max," I cried. He ignored my interruption.
                    "Along with the countless duties that fall to the lot of a prince are a few
                        that one owes to himself as a man. There are some sacrifices a man has no
                        right to inflict upon himself, even for the sake of his family, his
                        ancestors, or his state." He paused for the space of a minute, and, dropping
                        his words slowly, continued in a low voice vibrant with emotion: "There is
                        but one woman, Karl, whom I may  marry with
                        God's pleasure. Her, I may not even think upon; she is as far from me as if
                        she were dead. I must sacrifice her for the sake of the obligations and
                        conditions into which I was born; but —" here he hesitated, rose
                        slowly to his feet, and lifted his hands above his head, "but I swear before
                        the good God, who, in His wisdom, inflicted the curse of my birth upon me
                        that I will marry no other woman than this, let the result be what it
                        may."
                    He sank back into the chair and fell forward on the table, burying his face
                        in his arms. His heart for the moment was stronger than his resolution.
                    "That question is settled," thought I. No power save that of the Pope could
                        absolve the boy from his oath, and I knew that the power of ten score of
                        popes could not move him from its complete fulfilment. The oath of
                        Maximilian of Hapsburg, whose heart had never coined a lie, was as
                        everlasting as the rocks of his native land and, like Styria's mountain
                        peaks, pierced the dome of heaven.
                    If Yolanda were not the princess, our journeying to Burgundy had been in
                        vain, and our sojourn in Peronne was useless and perilous. It could not be
                        brought to a close too quickly. But (the question mark seems at times to be
                        the greatest part of life) if Yolanda were Mary of Burgundy, Max had, beyond
                        doubt, already won the lady's favor, unless she were a wanton snare for
                        every man's feet. That hypothesis  I did not
                        entertain for a moment. I knew little of womankind, but my limited knowledge
                        told me that Yolanda was true. Her heart was full of laughter, — a
                        rare, rich heritage, — and she was little inclined to look on the
                        serious side of life if she could avoid it; but beneath all there was a real
                        Yolanda, with a great, tender heart and a shrewd, helpful brain. She was
                        somewhat of a coquette, but coquetry salts a woman and gives her relish. It
                        had been a grievous waste on the part of Providence to give to any girl such
                        eyes as Yolanda's and to with-hold from her a modicum of coquetry with which
                        to use them. Taken all in all, Yolanda, whoever she was, would grace any
                        station in life. But if she were not the princess, I would be willing to
                        give my life — nay, more, I would almost be willing to take hers
                        — rather than see her marry Maximilian of Hapsburg. Happiness could
                        not come from such a union.
                    Should Max marry a burgher girl, his father and mother would never look upon
                        his face again. It would alienate his subjects, humble his house, and bring
                        him to the level of the meanest noble on the Danube. To all these dire
                        consequences Max was quite as wide awake as I. He had no intention of
                        bringing them upon his house, though for himself he would have welcomed
                        them. So I felt little uneasiness; but when a great love lays hold upon a
                        great heart, no man may know the outcome.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    ON THE MOAT BRIDGE
                    
                        A WAITING Castleman's return, we remained housed up at The
                        Mitre, seldom going farther abroad than Grote's garden save in the early
                        morning or after dark. But despite our caution trouble befell us, as our
                        burgher friend had predicted.
                    Within a week Max began to go out after dark without asking me to accompany
                        him. When he came into our room late one evening, I asked carelessly where
                        he had been. I knew where he had been going, and had burned to speak, but
                        the boy was twenty-two. Within the last few months he had grown out of my
                        tutelage, and his native strength of character had taught me to respect him
                        and in a certain way to fear him. From the promptness of his reply I thought
                        that he had wished me to ask concerning his outgoing and incoming.
                    "I have been to the bridge over the moat, near Castleman's House under the
                        Wall," he answered.
                    "What did you there?" I asked, seeing his willingness to be questioned.
                    "I stood there — I — I —" He paused, laughed,  and stammered on. "I looked at the castle and
                        at the moat, like a silly fool, and — and —"
                    "Castleman's house?" I suggested, helping him out.
                    "Y-e-s," he answered hesitatingly, "I could not help seeing it. It is close
                        by the bridge — not twenty paces distant."
                    "Did you see any one else — except the house?" I asked.
                    "No," he returned promptly. "I did not want to see any one else. If I had I
                        should have entered the house."
                    "Why, then, did you go to the bridge?" I queried.
                    "I cannot answer that question even to myself," he replied. "I — I
                        — there is a constant hungering for her, Karl, that I cannot
                        overcome; it seems as if I am compelled to go to the bridge, though I know I
                        should not. It is very foolish in me, I am sure, but —"
                    "I heartily agree with you," I answered, "It is not only foolish, it is rash;
                        and it may bring you great trouble."
                    I did not deem it necessary to tell him that he was following in the
                        footsteps of his race. I left him to suppose that he was the only fool of
                        the sort that had ever lived. The thought would abate his vanity.
                    "But I must go to the bridge," he continued, finishing the
                        sentence I had interrupted, "and I do not see how there can be evil in
                        it."
                    
                    "No, Max, it is not wrong in itself," I said reprovingly; "but Castleman,
                        evidently for good reasons, asked you to stay away from his house, and
                        counselled us to remain close at the inn. It has also this evil in it for
                        you, aside from the danger: it will make your duty harder to perform. When a
                        man longs for what he may not have, he should not think upon it, much less
                        act on it. Our desires, like covetousness and jealousy, feed upon
                        themselves. We may, if we but knew it, augment or abate them at will."
                    "I shall always think on — on my love for Yolanda," he replied. "I
                        would not abate it one jot; I would augment it in my heart. But, Karl
                        — you see, Karl, it is not a question of my own strength to resist.
                        I need no strength. There is no more reason for you to warm me against this
                        danger than to admonish a child not to long for a star, fearing he might get
                        it. The longing may be indulged with impunity; the star and the danger are
                        out of reach."
                    I had nothing to say; Max was stronger and nobler than ever I had
                        believed.
                    Max continued to go to the bridge, and I made no effort to prevent him.
                        Meddling mars more frequently than it mends, and when the Fates are leading,
                        a man is a fool to try to direct their course. Whatever was to be would be.
                        Fate held Max by the hand and was leading him. I almost feared to move or to
                        speak in his affairs, lest I should make a 
                        mistake and offend these capricious Fates. The right or the wrong of his
                        visits to the moat depended entirely upon the answer to my riddle, "Who is
                        Yolanda?" and I dared not put it to the touch.
                    On one occasion he returned from the bridge, and, without lighting the lamp,
                        sat on the arm of my chair. The moonlight streaming through the window
                        illumined, his head as with a halo. He tossed the damp curls from his face,
                        and his eyes were aglow with joy.
                    There was no need to tell me what had happened, hut he told me.
                    "Ah, Karl, I've seen the star," he cried triumphantly. He was but a boy-man,
                        you must remember.
                    "I was sure you would see her," I answered. "How did you bring the meeting
                        about?"
                    "I did not bring it about," he answered, laughing softly. "The star came to
                        the child."
                    "All things come to him that waits at the bridge," I replied sarcastically.
                        He paid no heed to the sarcasm, but continued: —
                    "She happened to be near the bridge when I got there, and she came to me,
                        Karl, — she came to me like a real star falling out of the
                        darkness."
                    That little fact solved once more my great riddle — at least, it
                        solved it for a time. Yolanda was not Mary of Burgundy. I had little
                        knowledge of princesses and their ways, but I felt sure they were not in the
                        habit of lurking in dark places  or wandering
                        by sluggish moats in the black shadow of a grim castle. A princess would not
                        and could not have been loitering by the bridge near the House under the
                        wall. Castleman's words concerning Yolanda's residence under his roof came
                        back and convinced me that my absurd theory concerning her identity was the
                        dream of a madman.
                    "She happened to be near the bridge?" I asked, with significant emphasis.
                    "Perhaps I should not have used the word 'happened,'" returned Max.
                    "I thought as much. What did she have to say for herself, Max?"
                    "If I were not sure of your devotion, Karl, I should not answer a question
                        concerning Yolanda put in such a manner," he replied; "but I'll tell you.
                        When I stepped on the bridge, she came running to me from the shadow of the
                        trees. Her arms were uplifted, and she moved so swiftly and with such grace
                        one could almost think she was flying —"
                    "Witches fly," I interrupted. My remark checked his flow of enthusiasm. After
                        a long silence I queried, "Well?"
                    Max began again.
                    "She gave me her hand and said: 'I knew you would come again, Sir Max. I saw
                        you from the battlements last night and the night before and the night
                        before that. I could not, with certainty, recognize  you from so great a distance, but I was sure you would come to
                        the bridge — I do not know why, but I was sure you would come; so
                        to-night I too come. You cannot know the trouble I took or the risk I ran in
                        coming. You have not seen me for many days, yet you remember me and have
                        come five times to the bridge. I was wrong when I said you would forget the
                        burgher girl within a fortnight. Sir max, you are a marvel of constancy.' At
                        that moment the figures of two men appeared on the castle battlements,
                        silhouetted against the moon; they seemed of enormous stature, magnified in
                        the moonlight. One of them was the Duke of Burgundy. I recognized him by his
                        great beard, of which I have heard you speak. Yolanda caught one glimpse of
                        the men and ran back to the house without so much as giving me a word of
                        farewell."
                    "What did you say during the brief interview?" I asked.
                    "Not one word," he replied.
                    "By my soul, you are an ardent lover," I exclaimed.
                    "I think she understood me," Max replied, confidently; and doubtless he was
                        right.
                    Once more the riddle was solved. A few more solutions and there would be a
                        mad Styrian in Burgundy. My reflections were after this fashion: Princesses,
                        after all, do wander by the moat side and 
                        loiter by the bridge. Princesses do go on long journeys with no
                        lady-in-waiting to do their bidding and no servants ready at their call.
                        Yolanda was Mary of Burgundy, thought I, and Max had been throwing away
                        God-given opportunities. Had she not seen Max from the battlements, and had
                        she not fled at sight of the duke? These two small facts were but scant
                        evidence of Yolanda's royalty, but they seemed sufficient.
                    "What would you have me say, Karl?" asked Max. "You would not have me speak
                        more than I have already said and win her love beyond her power to withdraw
                        it. That I sometimes believe I might do, but if my regard for her is true, I
                        should not wish to bring unhappiness to her for the sake of satisfying my
                        selfish vanity. If I am not mistaken, a woman would suffer more than a man
                        from such a misfortune."
                    Here, truly, was a generous love. It asked only the privilege of giving, and
                        would take nothing in return because it could not give all. If Yolanda were
                        Mary of Burgundy, Max might one day have a reward worthy of his virtue.
                        Yolanda's sweetness and beauty and Mary's rich domain would surely be
                        commensurate with the noblest virtue. I was not willing that Max should
                        cease wooing Yolanda — if I might give that word to his conduct
                        — until I should know certainly that she was not the princess.
                        This,  I admit, was cruel indifference to
                        Yolanda's peace of mind or pain of heart, if Max should win her love and
                        desert her.
                    Because of a faint though dazzling ray of hope, I encouraged Max after this
                        to visit the bridge over the moat, dangerous though it was; and each night.
                        I received an account of his doings. Usually the account was brief and
                        pointless. He wenr\t, he stood upon the bridge, he saw the House under the
                        Wall, he returned to the inn. But a night came when he had stirring
                        adventures to relate.
                    At the time of which I am writing every court in Europe had its cluster of
                        genteel vagabonds, — for-eigners,—who stood in high favor.
                        These hangers-on, though perhaps of the noblest blood in their own lands,
                        were usually exiles from their native country. some had been banished fro
                        crimes; others had wandered from their homes, prompted by the love of
                        roaming so often linked with unstable principles and reckless dispositions.
                        Burgundy under Charles the Rash was a paradise for these gentry. The duke,
                        who was so parsimonious with the great and wise Philip de Comines that he
                        drove him to the court of Louis XI, was open-handed with these floating
                        villains.
                    In imitation of King Louis's Scotch guard, Charles had an Italian guard. The
                        wide difference in the wisdom of these princes is nowhere more distinctly
                        shown than in the quality of the men they chose to  guard them. Louis employed the simple, honest, brave Scot.
                        Charles chose the most guileful of men. They were true only to
                        self-interest, brave only in the absence of danger. The court of Burgundy
                        swarmed with these Italian mercenaries, many of whom had followed Charles to
                        Peronne. Count Campo-Basso, who afterward betrayed Charles, was their chief.
                        Among his followeres was a huge Lombard, a great bully, who bore the name of
                        Count Calli.
                    On the evening of which I speak Max had hardly stepped on the bridge when
                        Yolanda ran to him.
                    "I have been waiting for you, Sir Max," she said. "You are late. I feared you
                        would not come. I have waited surely an hour, though I am loath to confess
                        it lest you think me a too willing maiden."
                    "It would be hard, Fraulein, for me to think you too willing—you are
                        but gracious and kind, and I thank you," answered Max. "But you have not
                        waited an hour. Darkness has fallen barely a quarter of that time."
                    "I was watching long before dark on the battlements, and —"
                    "On the battlements, Fraulein?" asked Max, in surprise.
                    "I mean from — from the window battlements in uncle's house. I've
                        been out here under the trees since nightfall, and that seems to have been
                        at least an hour ago. Don't you understand, Sir Max?" she  continued, laughing softly and speaking as if
                        in jest; "the longer I know you the more shamefully eager I become; but that
                        is the way with a maid and a man. She grows more eager and he grows less
                        ardent, and I doubt not the time will soon arrive, Sir Max, when you will
                        not come at all, and I shall be left waiting under the trees to weep in
                        loneliness."
                    Max longed to speak the words that were in his heart and near his lips, but
                        he controlled himself under this dire temptation and remained silent. After
                        a long pause she stepped close to him and asked: —
                    "Did you not want me to come?"
                    Max dared not tell her how much he had wanted her to come, so he went to the
                        other extreme — he must say something — and, in an excess
                        of caution, said: —
                    "I would not have asked you to come, Fräulein, though I much desired it; but
                        sober judgment w prompt me to wish that — that is, I — ah,
                        Fräulein, I did not want you to come to the bridge."
                    She laughed softly and said: —
                    "Now, Little Max, you do not speak the truth. You did want me to come, else
                        why do you come to the bridge? Why do you come?"
                    In view of all the facts in the case the question was practically
                        unanswerable unless Max wished to tell the truth, so he evaded by saying:
                        —
                    
                    "I do not know."
                    She looked quickly up to his face and stepped back from him: —
                    "Did you come to see Twonette? I had not thought of her. She is but drained
                        milk and treacle. Do you want to see her, Sir Max? If so, I'll return to the
                        house and send her to you."
                    "Fräulein, I need not answer your question," returned Max, convincingly.
                    "But I love Twonette. I know you do not come to see her, and I should not
                        have spoken, as I did," said Yolanda, penitently.
                    Perhaps her penitential moods were the most bewitching — certainly
                        they were the most dangerous — of all her many phases.
                    "You know why I come to the bridge, even though I do not," said Max. "Tell
                        me, Fräulein, why I come."
                    "That is what you may tell me. I came to hear it," she answered softly,
                        hanging her head.
                    "I may not speak, Fräulein," he replied, with a deep, regretful sigh. "What I
                        said to you on the road from Basel will be true as long as I live, but we
                        agreed that it should not again be spoken between us. For your sake more
                        than for mine it is better that I remain silent."
                    Yolanda hung her head, while her fingers were nervously busy with the points
                        of her bodice. She  uttered a low laugh,
                        flashed her eyes upon him for an instant, and again the long lashes shaded
                        them.
                    "You need not be too considerate for my sake, Sir Max," she
                        whispered; "though — though I confess that I never supposed any man
                        could bring me to this condition of boldness."
                    Max caught her hands, and, clasping them between his own, drew the girl
                        toward him. The top of her head was below his chin, and the delicious scent
                        from her hair intoxicated his senses. She felt his great frame tremble with
                        emotion, and a thrill of exquisite delight sped through every fibre of her
                        body, warming every drop of blood in her veins. But Max, by a mighty effort,
                        checked himself, and remained true to his self-imposed renunciation in word
                        and act. After a little time she drew her hands from his, saying:
                        —
                    "You are right, Max, to wish to save yourself and me from pain."
                    "I wish to save you, Yolanda. I want the pain; I hope it will cling to me all
                        my life. I want to save you from it."
                    "Perhaps you are beginning too late, Max," said the girl, sighing, "but
                        — but after all you are right. Even as you see our situation it is
                        impossible for us to be more than we are to each other. But if you knew all
                        the truth, you would see how utterly hopeless is the future in which I at
                        one time thought I  saw a ray of hope. Our
                        fate is sealed, Max; we are doomed. Before long you shall know. I will soon
                        tell you all."
                    "Do you wish to tell me now, Fräulein?" he asked.
                    "No," she whispered.
                    "In your own good time, Yolanda. I would not urge you."
                    Max understood Yolanda's words to imply that her station in life was even
                        lower than it seemed, or that there was some taint upon herself or her
                        family. Wishing to assure her that such a fact could not influence him, he
                        said: —
                    "You need not fear to tell me all concerning yourself or your family. There
                        can be no stain upon, you, and even though your station be less than
                        —"
                    "Hush, Max, hush," she cried, placing her hand protestingly against his
                        breast. "You do not know what you are saying. There is no stain on me or my
                        family."
                    Max wondered, but was silent; he had not earned the right to be
                        inquisitive.
                    The guard appeared at that moment on the castle battlements, and Max and
                        Yolanda sought the shelter of a grove of trees a dozen paces from the bridge
                        on the town side of the moat. They seated themselves on a bench, well within
                        the shadow of the trees, and after a moment's silence Max said:
                        —
                    
                    "I shall not come to the bridge again, Fräulein. I'll wait till your uncle
                        returns, when I shall see you at his house. Then I'll say farewell and go
                        back to the hard rocks of my native land — and to a life harder
                        than the rocks."
                    "You are right in your resolve not to come again to the bridge," said
                        Yolanda, "for so long as you come, I, too, shall come — when I can.
                        That will surely bring us trouble sooner or later. But when Uncle Castleman
                        returns, you must come to his house, and I shall see you there. As to your
                        leaving Peronne, we will talk of that later. It is not to be thought of
                        now."
                    She spoke with the confidence of one who felt that she might command him to
                        stay or order him to go. She would settle that little point for herself.
                    "I will go, Fräulein," said Max, "soon after your uncle's return."
                    "Perhaps it will be best, but we will determine that when we must —
                        when the time comes that we can put it off no longer. Now, I wish you to
                        grant me three promises, Sir Max. First, ask me no questions concerning
                        myself. Of course, you will ask them of no one else; I need not demand that
                        promise of you."
                    "I gladly promise," he answered. "What I already know of you is
                        all-sufficient."
                    
                    "Second, do not fail to come to my uncle's house when he invites you. His
                        home is worthy to receive the grandest prince in the world. My — my
                        lord, Duke Philip the Good, was Uncle Castleman's dear friend. The old.
                        duke, when in Peronne, dined, once a week with my uncle. Although uncle is a
                        burgher, he could have been noble. He refused a lordship and declined the
                        Order of the Golden Fleece, preferring the freedom of his own caste. I have
                        always thought he acted wisely."
                    "Indeed he was wise," returned Max. "You that have never known the restraints
                        of one born to high estate cannot fully understand how wise he was."
                    Yolanda glanced up to Max with amusement in her eyes:—
                    "Ah, yes! For example, there is poor Mary of Burgundy, who is to marry the
                        French Dauphin. I pity her. For all we know, she may be longing for another
                        man as I — I longed for my mastiff, Cæsar, when I was away. By the
                        way, Sir Max, are you still wearing the ring?" She took his hand and felt
                        for the ring on his finger. "Ah, you have left it off," she cried
                        reproachfully, answering her own question.
                    "Yes," answered Max. "There have been so many changes within the last few
                        weeks that I have taken it off, and — and I shall cease to wear
                        it."
                    
                    "Then give it to me, Sir Max," she cried excitedly.
                    "I may not do that, Fräulein," answered Max. "It was given to me by one I
                        respect."
                    "I know who the lady is," answered Yolanda, tossing her head saucily and
                        speaking with a dash of irritation in her voice.
                    "Ah, you do?" asked Max. "Tell me now, my little witch, who is the lady? If
                        you know so much tell me."
                    Yolanda lifted her eyes solemnly toward heaven, invoking the help of her
                        never failing familiar spirit.
                    "I see an unhappy lady," she said, speaking in a low whisper, "whose father
                        is one of the richest and greatest princes in all the world. A few evenings
                        ago while we were standing on the moat bridge talking, I saw the lady's
                        father on the battlements of yonder terrible castle. His form seemed
                        magnified against the sky till it was of unearthly size and terrible to look
                        on — doubly terrible to those who know him. If she should disobey
                        her father, he would kill her with his battle-axe, I verily believe, as
                        readily as he would crush a rebellious soldier. Yet she fears him not,
                        because she is of his own dauntless blood and fears not death itself. She is
                        to marry the Dauphin of France, and her wishes are of so small concern, I am
                        told that she has not yet been notified. This terrible man will sell his
                        daughter as he would barter a horse. She is powerless to move in her own  behalf, being bound hand and foot by the
                        remorseless shackles of her birth. She will become an unhappy queen, and, if
                        she survives her cruel father, she will, in time, take to her husband this
                        fat land of Burgundy, for the sake of which he wishes to marry her. She is
                        Mary of Burgundy, and even I, poor and mean of station, pity her. She
                        — gave — you — the — ring."
                    "How did you learn all this, Fräulein? You are not guessing, as you would
                        have had me believe, and you would not lie to me. What you have just said is
                        a part with what you said at Basel and at Strasburg. How did you learn it,
                        Fräulein?"
                    "Twonette," answered Yolanda.
                    That simple explanation was sufficient for Max. Yolanda might very likely
                        know the private affairs of the Princess Mary through Twonette, who was a
                        friend of Her Highness.
                    "But you have not promised to visit Uncle Castleman's house when he invites
                        you," said Yolanda, drawing Max again to the bench beside her.
                    "I gladly promise," said Max.
                    "That brings me to the third promise I desire," said Yolanda. "I want you to
                        give me your word that you will not leave Burgundy within one month from
                        this day, unless I give you permission."
                    "I cannot grant you that promise, Fräulein," answered Max.
                    "Ah, but you must, you shall," cried Yolanda, 
                        desperately clutching his huge arms with her small hands and clinging to
                        him. "I will scream, I will waken the town. I will not leave you, and you
                        shall not shake me off till I have your promise. I may not give you my
                        reasons, but trust me, Max, trust me. Give me your unquestioning faith for
                        once. I am not a fool, Max, nor would I lie to you for all the world, in
                        telling you that it is best for you to give me the promise. Believe me,
                        while there may be risk to me in what I ask, it is best that you grant it,
                        and that you remain, in Peronne for a month — perhaps for two
                        months, unless I sooner tell you to go."
                    "I may not give you the promise you ask, Fräulein," answered Max,
                        desperately. "You must know how gladly I would remain here forever."
                    "I believe truly you want to stay," she answered demurely, "else I surely
                        would not ask this promise of you. Your unspoken words have been more
                        eloquent than any vows your lips could coin, and I know what is in your
                        heart, else my boldness would have been beyond excusing. What I wish is that
                        your desire should be great enough to keep you when I ask you to
                        remain."
                    "I may not think of myself or my own desires. Fräulein," he answered. "Like
                        the lady of Burgundy, I was shackled at my birth."
                    "The lady of Burgundy is ever in your mind," Yolanda retorted sullenly. "You
                        would give this  promise quickly enough were
                        she asking it — she with her vast estate."
                    There was an angry gleam in the girl's eyes, and a dark cloud of unmistakable
                        jealousy on her face. She stepped back from Max and hung her head. After a
                        moment of silence she said: —
                    "You may answer me to-morrow night at this bridge, Sir Max. If you do not see
                        fit to give me the promise, then I shall weary you no further with
                        importunity, and you may go your way."
                    There was a touch of coldness in her voice as she turned and walked slowly
                        toward the bridge. Max called softly: —
                    "Yolanda!"
                    She did not answer, but continued with slow steps and drooping head. As her
                        form was fading into the black shadow of the castle wall he ran across the
                        bridge to her, and took her hand: —
                    "Fräulein, I will be at the bridge to-morrow night, and I will try to give
                        the promise you ask of me."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX
                    THE GREAT RIDDLE
                    
                        MAX was cautious in the matter of making promises, as
                        every honest man should be, since he had no thought of breaking them once
                        they were given. Therefore, he wished to know that he could keep his word
                        before pledging it. His lifelong habit of asking my advice may also have
                        influenced him in refusing the promise that he so much wished to give; or
                        perhaps he may have wanted time to consider. He did not want to give the
                        promise on the spur of an impulse.
                    When he had finished telling me his troubles, I asked: —
                    "What will you do to-morrow night?"
                    My riddle was again solved; Yolanda was the princess. Her words were
                        convincing. All doubt had been swept from my mind. There would be no more
                        battledore and. shuttlecock with my poor brain on that subject. So when Max
                        said, "I do not know what I shall do," I offered my opinion; "You surprise
                        me Max You lack enterprise; there is no warmth in your blood. The girl
                        cannot  harm you. Give her the promise. Are
                        your veins filled with water and caution?"
                    "What do you mean, Karl?" cried Max, stepping toward me with surprise and
                        delight in his face. "Are you advising me wrongly for the first time in my
                        life?" Then there was a touch of anger in his voice as he continued: "Have I
                        blood in my veins? Aye, Karl, burning, seething blood, and every drop cries
                        wildly for this girl — this child. I would give the half of it to
                        make her my wife and to make her happy. But I would not abate one jot of my
                        wretchedness at her expense. As I treat her I pray God to deal with me. I
                        cannot make her my wife, and if I am half a man, I would not win her
                        everlasting love and throw it to the dogs. She all but asked me last night
                        to tell her of my love for her, and almost pressed hers upon me, but I did
                        not even kiss her hand. Ah, Karl, I wish I were dead!"
                    The poor boy threw himself on the bed and buried his face in his hands. I
                        went to him and, seating myself on the bed, ran my fingers through his
                        curls.
                    "My dear Max, I have never advised you wrongly. Perhaps luck has been with
                        me. Perhaps my good advice has been owing to my great caution and my deep
                        love for you. I am sure that I do not advise you wrongly now. Go to the
                        bridge to-morrow night,  and give Yolanda the
                        promise she asks. If she wants it, give her the ring. Keep restraint upon
                        your words and acts, but do not fear for one single moment that my advice is
                        wrong. Max, I know whereof I speak."
                    Max rose from the bed and looked at me in surprise; but my advice jumped so
                        entirely with the longing deep buried in his heart that he took it as a
                        dying man accepts life.
                    The next evening Max met Yolanda under the trees near the bridge.
                    "I may remain but a, moment," she said hurriedly and somewhat coldly. "Do you
                        bring me the promise?"
                    "Yes," answered Max. "I have also brought you the ring, Fräulein, but you may
                        not wear it, and no one may ever see it."
                    "Ah, Max, it is well that you have brought me the promise, for had you not
                        you would never have seen me again. I thank you for the promise and for the
                        ring. No one shall see it. Of that you may be doubly sure. If by any chance
                        some meddlesome body should see it and tell this arrogant lady of the castle
                        that I have the keepsake she sent you, there would be trouble, Max, there
                        would be trouble. She is a jealous, vindictive little wretch and you shall
                        not think on her. No doubt she would have me torn limb from limb if she knew
                        I possessed the jewel. When I touch it, I feel that I almost hate this
                        princess, whose vast  estates have a power of
                        attraction greater than any woman may exert."
                    There was real anger in her tone. In truth, dislike and aversion were
                        manifest in every word she spoke of the princess, save when the tender
                        little heart pitied her.
                    "Now I must say good night and adieu, Sir Max, until uncle returns," said
                        Yolanda. She gave Max her hands and he, in bringing them to his lips, drew
                        her close to him. At that moment they were startled by a boisterous laugh
                        close beside them, and the fellow calling himself Count Calli slapped Max on
                        the back, saying in French: —
                    "Nicely done, my boy, nicely done. But you are far too considerate. Why kiss
                        a lady's hand when her lips are so near? I will show you, Fräulein
                        Castleman, exactly how so delicate a transaction is conducted by an
                        enterprising gentleman."
                    He insultingly took hold of Yolanda, and, with evident intent to kiss her,
                        tried to lift the veil with which she had hastily covered her face. Max
                        struck the fellow a blow that felled him to the ground, but Calli rose and,
                        drawing his dagger, rushed upon Max. Yolanda stood almost paralyzed with
                        terror. Max was unarmed, but he seized Calli's wrist and twisted it till a
                        small bone cracked, and the dagger fell from his hand to the ground. Calli's
                        arm hung limp at his side, and he was powerless to do  further injury. Max did not take advantage of his
                        helplessness, but said: —
                    "Go, or I will twist your neck as I have broken your wrist."
                    Max had gone out that evening without arms or armor. He had not even a
                        dagger.
                    When Calli had passed out of sight, Yolanda stooped, picked up his dagger,
                        and offered it to Max, saying:—
                    "He will gather his friends at once. Take this dagger and hasten back to the
                        inn, or you will never reach it alive. No, come with me to Uncle Castleman's
                        house. There you may lie concealed."
                    "I may not go to your uncle's house, Fräulein," answered Max. "I can go
                        safely to the inn. Do not fear for me."
                    Yolanda protested frantically, but Max refused.
                    "Go quickly, then," she said, "and be on your guard at all times. This man
                        who came upon us is Count Calli, the greatest villain in Burgundy. He is a
                        friend of Campo-Basso. Now hasten to the inn, if you will not come with me
                        to uncle's house, and beware, for this man and his friends will seek
                        vengeance; of that you must never allow yourself to doubt. Adieu, till uncle
                        comes."
                    Max reached the inn unmolested. We donned our mail shirts, expecting trouble,
                        and took turn and turn watching and sleeping. Next day we hired two stalwart
                             Irish squires and armed them cap-a-pie.
                        We meant to give our Italian friends a hot welcome if they attacked us,
                        though we had, in truth, little fear of an open assault. We dreaded more a
                        dagger thrust in the back, or trouble from court through the machinations of
                        Campo-Basso.
                    The next morning Max sent one of our Irishmen to Castleman's house with a
                        verbal message to Fräulein Castleman. When the messenger returned, he
                        replied to my question: —
                    "I was shown into a little room where three ladies sat. 'What have you to
                        say?' asked the little black-haired one in the corner — she with
                        the great eyes and the face pale as a chalk-cliff. I said, 'I am instructed,
                        mesdames, to deliver this simple message: Sir Max is quite well.' 'That will
                        do. Thank you.' said the big eyes and the pale face. Then she gave me two
                        gold florins. The money almost took my breath, and when I looked up to thank
                        her, blest if the white face wasn't rosy as a June dawn. When I left, she
                        was dancing about the room singing and laughing, and kissing everybody but
                        me — worse luck! By Saint Patrick, I never saw so simple a message
                        create so great a commotion. 'Sir Max is quite well.' I'm blest if he
                        doesn't look it. Was he ever ill?"
                    After five or six days we allowed ourselves to fall into a state of
                        unwatchfulness. One warm evening  we dismissed
                        our squires for an hour's recreation. The Cologne River flows by the north
                        side of the inn garden, and, the spot being secluded, Max and I, after dark,
                        cooled ourselves by a plunge in the water. We had come from the water and
                        finished dressing, save for our doublets, which lay upon the sod, when two
                        men approached whom we thought to be our squires. When first we saw them,
                        they were in the deep shadow of the trees that grew near the water's edge,
                        and we did not notice their halberds until they were upon us. When the men
                        had approached within four yards, we heard a noise back of us and turning
                        saw four soldiers, each bearing an arquebuse pointed in our direction. At
                        the same moment another man stepped from behind the two we had first seen
                        and came quickly to me. He was Count Calli. In his left hand he held a
                        parchment. Max and I were surrounded and unarmed.
                    "I arrest you on the order of His Grace, the duke," said Calli, in low tones,
                        speaking French with an Italian accent.
                    "Your authority?" I demanded.
                    "This," he said, offering me the parchment, "and this," touching his sword. I
                        took the parchment but could not read it in the dark.
                    "I'll go to the inn to read your warrant," I said, stooping to take up my
                        doublet.
                    "You will do nothing of the sort," he answered.
                    
                    "One word more from you, and there will be no need to arrest you. I shall be
                        only too glad to dispense with that duty."
                    I felt sure he wished us to resist that he might have a pretext for murdering
                        us. I could see that slow-going Max was making ready for a fight, even at
                        the odds of seven to two, and to avert trouble I spoke softly in German:
                        —
                    "These men are eager to kill us. Our only hope lies in submission."
                    While I was speaking the men gathered closely about us, and almost before my
                        words were uttered, our wrists were manacled behind us and we were
                        blindfolded. Our captors at once led us away. A man on either side of me
                        held my arms, and by way of warning I received now and then a merciless prod
                        between my shoulder-blades from a halberd in the hands of an enthusiastic
                        soul that walked behind me. Max, I supposed, was receiving like
                        treatment.
                    After a hundred paces or more we waded the river, and then I knew nothing of
                        our whereabouts. Within a half-hour we crossed a bridge which I supposed was
                        the one over the moat at the Postern. There we halted, and the password was
                        given in a whisper. Then came the clanking of chains and creaking of hinges,
                        and I knew the gates were opening and the portcullis rising. After the gates
                        were opened I was again urged forward by the men on  either side of me and the enterprising soul in the rear.
                    I noticed that I was walking on smooth flags in place of cobble-stones, and I
                        was sure we were in the bailey yard of the castle. Soon I was stopped again,
                        a door opened, squeaking on its rusty hinges, and we began the descent of a
                        narrow stairway. Twenty or thirty paces from the foot of the stairway we
                        stopped while another door was opened. This, I felt sure, was the entrance
                        to an underground cell, out of which God only knew if I should ever come
                        alive. While I was being thrust through the door, I could not resist calling
                        out, "Max — Max, for the love of God answer me if you hear!" I got
                        no answer. Then I appealed to my guard: —
                    "Let me have one moment's speech with him, only one moment. I will pay you a
                        thousand crowns the day I am liberated if you grant me this favor."
                    "No one is with you," the man replied. "I would willingly earn the thousand
                        crowns, but if they are to be paid when you are liberated, I fear I should
                        starve waiting for them.
                    With these comforting words they thrust me into the cell, manacled and
                        blindfolded. I heard the door clang to; the rusty lock screeched venomously,
                        and then I was alone in gravelike silence. I hardly dared to take a step,
                        for I knew these underground  cells were
                        honeycombed with death-traps. I could not grope about me with my hands, for
                        they were tied, and I knew not what pitfall my feet might find.
                    How long I stood without moving I did not know; it might have been an hour or
                        a day for all I could tell. I was almost stupefied by this misfortune into
                        which I had led Max. I do not remember having thought at all of my own
                        predicament. I cannot say that I suffered; I was benumbed. I remember
                        wondering about Max and speculating vaguely on his fate, but for a time the
                        thought did not move me. I also remember sinking to the floor, only half
                        conscious of what I was doing, and then I must have swooned or slept.
                    When I recovered consciousness I rose to my feet. A step or two brought me
                        against a damp stone wall. Three short paces in another direction, and once
                        more I was against the wall. Then I stopped, turned my back to the reeking
                        stone, and cursed the brutes that had treated me with such wanton cruelty.
                        It was not brutal; it was human. No brute could feel it; only in the heart
                        of man could it live.
                    By chafing the back of my head against the wall I succeeded in removing the
                        bandage from my eyes. Though I was more comfortable, I was little better
                        off, since I could see nothing in the pitiless black of my cell. I stretched
                        my eyes, as one will in the dark, till  they
                        ached, but I could not see even an outline of the walls.
                    A burning thirst usually follows excitement, and after a time it came to me
                        and grew while I thought upon it. My parched throat was almost closed, and I
                        wondered if I were to be left to choke to death. I knew that in Spain and
                        Italy such refinement of cruelty was oftened practised, but I felt sure that
                        the Duke of Burgundy would not permit the infliction of so cruel a fate, did
                        he know of it. But our captors were not Burgundians, and I doubted if the
                        duke even knew of our imprisonment. I suffered intensely, though I believe I
                        could have endured it with fortitude had I not known that Max was suffering
                        a like fate.
                    I believed I had been several days in my cell when I heard a key turn in the
                        lock. The door opened, and a man bearing a basket and a lantern entered. He
                        placed the basket on the ground and, with the lantern hung over his arm,
                        unfastened the manacles of my wrists. In the basket were a boule of black bread and a stone jar of water. I eagerly grasped
                        the jar, and never in my life has anything passed my lips that tasted so
                        sweet as that draught.
                    "Don't drink too much at one time," said the guard, not unkindly. "It might
                        drive you mad. A man went mad in this cell less than a month ago from
                        drinking too much water."
                    
                    "How long had he been without it?" I asked of this cheering personage.
                    "Three days," he responded.
                    "I did not know that men of the north could he so cruel as to keep a prisoner
                        three days without water," I said.
                    "It happened because the guard was drunk," answered the fellow, laughing.
                    "I hope you will remain sober," said I, not at all intending to be humorous,
                        though the guard laughed.
                    "I was the guard," he replied. "I did not intend to leave the prisoner
                        without water, but, you see, I was dead drunk and did not know it."
                    "Perhaps you have been drunk for the last three or four days since I have
                        been here?" I asked.
                    He laughed boisterously.
                    "You here three or four days! Why, you are mad already! You have been here
                        only over night."
                    Well! I thought surely I was mad!
                    Suddenly the guard left me and closed the cell door. I called frantically to
                        him, but I might as well have cried from the bottom of the sea.
                    After what seemed fully another week of waiting, the guard again came with
                        bread and water. By that time my mind had cleared. I asked the guard to
                        deliver a message to my Lord d'Hymbercourt and offered a large reward for
                        the service. I begged him to say to Hymbercourt that his friends of The
                        Mitre had  been arrested and were now in
                        prison. The guard willingly promised to deliver my message, but he did not
                        keep his word, though I repeated my request many times and promised him any
                        reward he might name when I should regain my liberty. With each visit he
                        repeated his promise, but one day he laughed and said I was wasting words;
                        that he would never see the reward and that in all probability I should
                        never again see the light of day. His ominous words almost prostrated me,
                        though again I say I suffered chiefly for Max's sake. Could I have gained
                        his liberty at the cost of my life, nay, even my soul, I should have been
                        glad to do it.
                    But I will not further describe the tortures of my imprisonment. The greatest
                        of them all was my ignorance of Max's fate. It was a frightful ordeal and I
                        wonder that my reason survived it.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    THE HOUSE UNDER THE WALL
                    
                        TO leave Max and myself in our underground dungeon,
                        imprisoned for an unknown, uncommitted crime, while I narrate occurrences
                        outside our prison walls looks like a romancer's trick, but how else I am to
                        go about telling this history I do not know. Yolanda is quite as important a
                        personage in this narrative as Max and myself, and I must tell of her
                        troubles as I learned of them long afterwards.
                    Castleman reached home ten days or a fortnight after our arrest, bringing
                        with him his precious silks, velvets, and laces to the last ell. As he had
                        predicted, they were quadrupled in value, and their increase made the good
                        burgher a very rich man.
                    Soon after Castleman reached the House under the Wall, Yolanda came dancing
                        into the room where he was sitting with good Frau Katherine, drinking a
                        bottle of rich Burgundy wine well mixed with pepper and honey.
                    "Ah, uncle," she cried joyously, "at last you are at home, and I have a fine
                        kiss for you."
                    
                    "Thank you, my dear," said Castleman, "you have spoiled my wine. The honey
                        will now taste vinegarish."
                    "You are a flatterer, uncle — isn't he, tante?" laughed Yolanda,
                        turning to Aunt Castleman.
                    "I am afraid he is," said the good frau, in mock distress. "Every one tries
                        to spoil him."
                    "You more than any one, tante," cried Yolanda.
                    "Tut, tut, child," cried Fran Katherine, "I abate his vanity with
                        frowns."
                    Yolanda laughed, and the burgher, pinching his wife's red cheek, protested:
                        —
                    "You frown? You couldn't frown if you tried. A clear sky
                        may rain as easily. Get the peering glass, Yolanda, and find, if you can, a
                        wrinkle on her face."
                    Yolanda, who was always laughing, threw herself upon the frau's lap and
                        pretended to hunt for wrinkles. Soon she reported: —
                    "No wrinkles, uncle — there, you dear old tante, I'll kiss you to
                        keep you from growing jealous of uncle on my account."
                    "If any one about this house has been spoiled, it's you, Yolanda," said Frau
                        Kate, affectionately.
                    "When you speak after that fashion, tante, you almost make me weep," said
                        Yolanda. "Surely you and uncle and Twonette are the only friends I have, and
                        give me all the joy I know. But, uncle, now 
                        that you are at home, I want you to drink your wine quickly and give me a
                        great deal of joy — oh, a great deal."
                    "Indeed I will, my dear. Tell me where to begin," answered Castleman,
                        draining his goblet.
                    Yolanda flushed rosily and hesitated. At that moment Twonette, who had
                        already greeted her father, entered the room.
                    "Twonette will tell you," said Yolanda, laughing nervously.
                    "What shall I tell him?" asked Twonette.
                    "You will tell him what I want him to do quickly, at once, immediately,"
                        pleaded Yolanda. "You know what I have waited for this long, weary
                        time."
                    "Tell him yourself what you want quickly, at once, immediately," answered
                        Twonette. "I, too, have wants."
                    "What do you want, daughter?" asked Castleman, beaming upon Twonette.
                    "I want thirty ells of blue velvet for a gown, and I want you to ask
                        permission of the duke for me to wear it."
                    "Many noble ladies would not dare to ask so much of the duke," suggested
                        Castleman.
                    "It is true, George," said Frau Kate, "that only noble ladies of high degree
                        are permitted to wear velvet of blue; but it is also true that only your
                        stubbornness has deprived our daughter of that privilege.  She might now be noble had you not been
                        stubborn."
                    "I also want —" began Twonette.
                    "You shall wear the duke's own color, purple, if you will hold your tongue
                        about worthless matters and tell your father what I want," cried Yolanda,
                        impetuously thrusting Twonette toward Castleman.
                    "You tell him your own wants," answered Twonette, pouting. "Then perhaps his
                        own daughter may have his ear for a moment or two."
                    Yolanda laughed at Twonette's display of ill-temper.
                    "Well, uncle, since I must tell my own tale, I will begin," said Yolanda,
                        blushing. "I want you to go to The Mitre and ask a friend — two
                        friends — of yours here to supper this evening. I have waited a
                        weary time for you to give this invitation, and I will not wait another
                        hour, nay, not another minute. We have a fat peacock that longs to be
                        killed; it is so fat that it is tired of life. We have three pheasants that
                        will die of grief if they are not baked at once. I myself have been feeding
                        them this fortnight past in anticipation of this feast. We have a dozen
                        wrens for a live pie, so tame they will light on our heads when you cut the
                        crust. We shall have a famous feast, uncle. There will be present only
                        tante, you, Twonette, our two guests, and myself. Now, uncle, the wine is
                        consumed. Hurry to the inn."
                    
                    "My dear child," said Castleman, seriously, "you know that I am almost
                        powerless to refuse any request you make, but in this case I must do
                        so."
                    "Ah, uncle, please tell me why," coaxed Yolanda, with trouble in her eyes and
                        grief at the corners of her mouth.
                    "Because you must see no more of this very pleasing young man," answered
                        Castleman. "I yielded to your wishes at Basel and brought him with us; I was
                        compelled to send him with you from Metz; but now that our journey is over,
                        I shall thank him and pay him an additional sum, since my goods are safe
                        home, and say farewell to him. I believe he is a worthy and honorable young
                        man, but we do not know who he is, and if we did —"
                    "Ah, but I know who he is," interrupted Yolanda, tossing
                        her head. "We may not know, but I know,
                        and that is sufficient."
                    "Do you know?" asked Castleman. "Pray tell me of him. The information was
                        refused me; at least, it was not given. He is probably of noble birth, but
                        we have nobles here in Peronne whom we would not ask to our house. We know
                        nothing of this wandering young Max, save that he is honest and brave and
                        good to look upon."
                    "In God's name, uncle, what more would you ask in a man?" cried Yolanda,
                        stamping her foot. "'Noble, honest, brave, and good to look upon!' Will  not those qualities fit a man for any one's
                        regard and delight any woman's heart? I tell you I will have my way in this.
                        I tell you I know his degree. I know who he is and what he is and all about
                        him, though I don't intend to tell you anything, and would inform you now
                        that it's no business of yours."
                    "Did you coax all this information out of him, you little witch?" asked
                        Castleman, smiling against his will.
                    "I did not," retorted Yolanda, leaning forward and lifting her chin
                        defiantly. "I learned it soon after we reached Basel. I discovered it by
                        — by magic — by sorcery. He will tell you as much."
                    "By the magic of your eyes and smiles. That's the way you wheedled it out of
                        him, and that's the way you coax every one to your will," said Castleman,
                        laughing while Yolanda pouted.
                    "I never saw a girl make such eyes at a man as you made at this Sir Max,"
                        said Twonette, who was waiting for her blue velvet gown.
                    "Twonette, you are prettier with your mouth shut. Silence becomes you,"
                        retorted Yolanda, favoring Twonette with a view of her back. "Now, uncle,"
                        continued Yolanda, "all is ready: peacock, pheasants, wrens; and I command
                        you to procure the guests."
                    Castleman laughed at her imperious ways and said: —
                    
                    "I will obey your commands in all else, Yolanda, but not in this."
                    The girl, who was more excited than she appeared to be, stood for a moment by
                        her uncle's side, and, drawing her kerchief from its pouch, placed it to her
                        eyes.
                    "Every one tries to make me unhappy," she sobbed. "There is no one to whom I
                        may turn for kindness. If you will not do this for me, uncle, if you will
                        not bring him — them — to me, I give you my sacred word I
                        will go to them at the inn. If you force me to do an act so unmaidenly, I'll
                        leave you and will not return to your house. I shall know that you do not
                        love me!"
                    Castleman was not ready to yield, though he was sure that in the end he would
                        do so. He also knew that her threat to go to the inn was by no means an idle
                        word.
                    Yolanda was not given to tears, but she used them when she found she could
                        accomplish her ends by no other means. A long pause ensued, broken by
                        Yolanda's sobs.
                    "Good-by, uncle. Good-by, tante. Good-by, Twonette. I mean what I say, uncle.
                        I am going, and I shall not come back if you will not do this thing for me.
                        I am going to the inn."
                    She kissed them all and started toward the door. The loving old tante could
                        not hold out. She, too,  was weeping, and she
                        added her supplications to Yolanda's.
                    "Do what she asks, father — only this once," said Frau Kate.
                    "Only this once," pleaded Yolanda, turning her tear-moistened eyes upon the
                        helpless burgher.
                    "I suppose I must surrender," exclaimed Castleman, rising from his chair. "I
                        have been surrendering to you, your aunt, and Twonette all my life. First
                        Kate, then Twonette, and of late years they have been reënforced by you,
                        Yolanda, and my day is lost. I do a little useless fighting when I know I am
                        in the right, but it is always followed by a cowardly surrender."
                    "But think of your victories in surrender, uncle. Think of your rewards,"
                        cried Yolanda, running to his side and kissing him. "Many a man would fight
                        a score of dragons for that kiss."
                    "Dragons!" cried Castleman, protestingly. "I would rather fight a hundred
                        dragons than do this thing for you, Yolanda. I know little concerning the
                        ways of a girl's heart, but, ignorant as I am, I could see —
                        Mother, I never saw a girl so infatuated with a man as our Yolanda is with
                        this Sir Max — this stranger."
                    "There, tante," cried Yolanda, turning triumphantly to Frau Kate, "you hear
                        what uncle says. Now you see the great reason for having him here —
                        this  Sir Max and his friend. But, uncle, if
                        you think I mean to make a fool of myself about this man, put the notion out
                        of your head. I know only too well the barrier between us, but, uncle mine,"
                        she continued pleadingly, all her wonted joyousness driven from her face, "I
                        am so wretched, so unhappy. If I may have a moment of joy now, for the love
                        of the Blessed Virgin don't deny me. I sometimes think you love me chiefly
                        because I so truly deserve your pity. As for this young man, he is gentle,
                        strong, and good, and, as you say, he certainly is good to look upon.
                        Twonette knows that, don't you, Twonette? He is wise, too, and brave, even
                        against the impulse of his own great heart. He thinks only of my good and
                        his own duties. I am in no danger from him, uncle. He can do me only good. I
                        shall be happier and better all my life long for having known him. Now,
                        uncle?"
                    "I will fetch him," exclaimed Castleman, seeking his hat. "You may be right
                        or you may be wrong, but for persuasiveness I never saw your like. I
                        declare, Yolanda, you have almost made me feel like a villain for refusing
                        you."
                    "I wish the world were filled with such villains, uncle. Don't you, tante?"
                        said Yolanda, beaming upon the burgher.
                    "No," answered the frau, "I should want them all for my husbands."
                    
                    "God forbid!" cried Yolanda, lifting her hands as she turned toward the door,
                        laughing once more. "Tell them to be here by six o'clock, uncle. No! we will
                        say five. Tell them to come on the stroke of five. No! four o'clock is
                        better; then we will sup at six, and have an hour or two before we eat.
                        That's it, uncle; have them here by four. Tell them to fail not by so much
                        as a minute, upon their allegiance. Tell them to be here promptly on the
                        stroke of four."
                    She ran from the room singing, and Castleman started toward the front
                        door.
                    "The girl makes a fool of me whenever she wishes," he observed, pausing and
                        turning toward his wife. "She coaxed me to take her to Basel, and life was a
                        burden till I got her home again. Now she winds me around her finger and
                        says, 'Uncle Castleman, obey me,' and I obey. Truly, there never was in all
                        the world such another coaxing, persuasive little witch as our Yolanda."
                    "Poor child," said Frau Kate, as her husband passed out of the door.
                    Castleman reached The Mitre near the hour of one, and of course did not find
                        us. At half-past four, Yolanda entered the great oak room where Twonette and
                        Frau Kate were stitching tapestry.
                    "Where suppose you Sir Max is — and Sir Karl?" asked Yolanda, with a
                        touch of anger in her voice. "Why has he not come? I have been watching but
                             have not seen him — them. He
                        places little value on our invitation to slight it by half an hour. I am of
                        half a mind not to see him when he comes."
                    "Your uncle is downstairs under the arbor, Yolanda," said Frau Castleman,
                        gently. "He will tell you, sweet one, why Sir Max is not here."
                    Frau Katherine and Twonette put aside their tapestry, and went with Yolanda
                        to question Castleman in the arbor.
                    "Well, uncle, where are our guests?" asked Yolanda.
                    "They are not at the inn, and have not been there since nearly a fortnight
                        ago," answered Castleman.
                    "Gone!" cried Yolanda, aflame with sudden anger. "He gave me his word he
                        would not go. I'm glad he's gone, and I hope I may never see his face again.
                        I deemed his word inviolate, and now he has broken it."
                    "Do not judge Sir Max too harshly," said Castleman; "you may wrong him. I do
                        not at all understand the absence of our friends. Grote tells me they went
                        to the river one night to bathe and did not return. Their horses and arms
                        are at the inn. Their squires, who had left them two hours before, have not
                        been seen since. Grote has heard nothing of our friends that will throw
                        light on their whereabouts. Fearing to get himself into trouble, he has
                        stupidly held his tongue. He was not inclined to speak plainly even to
                        me."
                    
                    "Blessed Mother, forgive me!" cried Yolanda, sinking back upon a settle.
                        After a long silence she continued: "Two weeks ago! That was a few days
                        after the trouble at the bridge."
                    "What trouble?" asked Castleman.
                    "I'll tell you, uncle, and you, tante. Twonette already knows of it,"
                        answered Yolanda. "Less than three weeks ago I was with Sir Max near the
                        moat bridge. It was dark — after night —"
                    "Yolanda!" exclaimed Castleman, reproachfully.
                    "Yes, uncle, I know I ought not to have been there, but I was," said
                        Yolanda.
                    "Alone with Sir Max after dark?" asked the astonished burgher.
                    "Yes, alone with him, after it was very dark," answered
                        Yolanda. "I had met him several times before."
                    Castleman tried to speak, but Yolanda interrupted him:—
                    "Uncle, I know and admit the truth of all you would say, so don't say it.
                        While I was standing very near to Sir Max, uncle, very near, Count Calli
                        came upon us and offered me gross insult. Sir Max, being unarmed, knocked
                        the fellow down, and in the struggle that ensued Count Calli's arm was
                        broken. I heard the bone snap, then Calli, swearing vengeance, left us. Why
                        Sir Max went out unarmed that night I do not know. Had he been armed he
                        might  have killed Calli; that would have
                        prevented this trouble."
                    "I, too, wonder that Sir Max went out unarmed," said Castleman musingly. "Why
                        do you suppose he was so incautious?"
                    "Perhaps that is the custom in Styria. There may be less danger, less
                        treachery, there than in Burgundy," suggested Yolanda.
                    "In Styria!" exclaimed Castleman. "Sir Karl said that he was from Italy. He
                        did not tell me of Sir Max's home, but I supposed he also was from Italy, or
                        perhaps from Würtemberg — there are many Guelphs in that
                        country."
                    "Yes, I will tell you of that later, uncle," said Yolanda. "When Calli left
                        us, Sir Max returned safely to the inn, having promised me not to leave
                        Peronne within a month. This trouble has come from Calli and
                        Campo-Basso."
                    "But you say this young man is from Styria?" asked Castleman, anxiously.
                    "Yes," replied Yolanda, drooping her head, "he is Maximilian, Count of
                        Hapsburg."
                    "Great God!" exclaimed Castleman, starting to his feet excitedly. "If I have
                        brought these men here to be murdered, I shall die of grief; all Europe will
                        turn upon Burgundy."
                    Yolanda buried her face in Mother Kate's breast; Castleman walked to and fro,
                        and sympathetic Twonette  wept gently. It was
                        not in Twonette's nature to do anything violently. Yolanda, on the contrary,
                        was intense in all her joys and griefs.
                    "Did Sir Max tell you who he is?" asked Castleman, stopping in front of
                        Yolanda.
                    "No," she replied, "I will tell you some day how I guessed it. He does not
                        know that I know, and I would not have you tell him."
                    "Tell me, Yolanda," demanded Castleman, "what has passed between you and this
                        Sir Max?"
                    "Nothing, uncle, save that I know — ah, uncle, there is nothing. God
                        pity me, there can be nothing. Whatever his great, true heart feels may be
                        known to me as surely as if he had spoken a thousand vows, but he would not
                        of his own accord so much as touch my hand or speak his love. He knows that
                        one in his station may not mate with a burgher girl. He treats me as a true
                        knight should treat a woman, and if he feels pain because of the gulf
                        between us, he would not bring a like pain to me. He is a strong, noble man,
                        Uncle Castleman, and we must save him."
                    "If I knew where to begin, I would try at once," said Castleman, "but I do
                        not know, and I cannot think of—"
                    "I have a plan," interrupted Yolanda, "that will set the matter going.
                        Consult my Lord d'Hymbercourt; he is a friend of Sir Karl's; he may help us.
                             Tell him of the trouble at the bridge,
                        but say that Twonette, not I, was there. If Lord d'Hymbercourt cannot help
                        us, I'll try another way if I die for it."
                    Castleman found Hymbercourt and told him the whole story, substituting
                        Twonette for Yolanda.
                    "It is the work of that accursed Basso," said Hymbercourt, stroking his
                        beard. "No villany is too black for him and his minions to do."
                    "But what have they done?" asked Castleman. "They surely would not murder
                        these men because of the quarrel at the bridge."
                    "They would do murder for half that cause," replied Hymbercourt. "A brave man
                        hates an assassin, and I am always wondering why the duke, who is so bold
                        and courageous, keeps this band of Italian cut-throats at his court."
                    "What can we do to rescue our friends if they still live, or to avenge them
                        if dead?" asked Castleman.
                    "I do not know," answered Hymbercourt. "Let me think it all over, and I will
                        see you at your house to-night. Of this I am certain: you must not move in
                        the matter. If you are known to be interested, certain facts may leak out
                        that would ruin you and perhaps bring trouble to one who already bears a
                        burden too heavy for young shoulders. We know but one useful fact: Calli and
                        Campo-Basso are at the bottom of this evil. The duke suspects that the
                        states adjacent to Switzerland, including Styria, will  give aid to the Swiss in this war with Burgundy, and it may be
                        that Duke Charles has reasons for the arrest of our friends. He may have
                        learned that Sir Max is the Count of Hapsburg. I hope his finger is not in
                        the affair. I will learn what I can, and will see you to-night. Till then,
                        adieu."
                    True to his promise, Hymbercourt went to Castle-man's that evening, but he
                        had learned nothing and had thought out no plan of action. Two days passed
                        and there was another consultation. Still the mystery was as far from
                        solution as on the day of its birth. Yolanda was in tribulation, and
                        declared that she would take the matter into her own hands. Her uncle
                        dissuaded her, however, and she reluctantly agreed to remain silent for a
                        day or two longer, but she vowed that she would give tongue to her thoughts
                        and arouse all Burgundy in behalf of Max and myself if we were not soon
                        discovered.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI
                    PERONNE LA PUCELLE
                    
                        THE next morning Duke Charles went down to the great hall
                        of the castle to hear reports from his officers relating to the war that he
                        was about to wage against the Swiss. When the duke ascended the three steps
                        of the dais to the ducal throne, he spoke to Campo-Basso who stood upon the
                        first step at the duke's right.
                    "What news, my Lord Count?" asked Charles. "I'm told there is a messenger
                        from Ghent."
                    "Ill news, my lord," answered Campo-Basso.
                    "Out with it!" cried the duke. "One should always swallow a bitter draught
                        quickly."
                    "We hear the Swiss are gathering their cantons in great numbers," said
                        Campo-Basso.
                    "Let the sheep gather," said Charles, waving his hands. "The more they gather
                        to the fold, the more we'll shear." He laughed as if pleased with the
                        prospect, and continued, "Proceed, my Lord Count."
                    "The Duke of Lorraine is again trying to muster his subjects against Your
                        Grace, and sends a polite message asking and offering terms of agreement.
                        Shall I read the missive, my lord?"
                    
                    "No!" cried the duke, "Curse his soft words. There is no bad news yet.
                        Proceed."
                    "It is rumored, Your Grace," continued the count, "that Frederick, Duke of
                        Styria, is preparing to aid the Swiss against Your Grace."
                    "With his advice?" asked the duke. "The old pauper has nothing else to give,
                        unless it be the bones of his ancestors."
                    "It is said, Your Highness, that Würtemberg will also aid the Swiss, and that
                        Duke Albert will try to bring about a coalition of the German states for the
                        purpose of assisting the Swiss, aiding Lorraine, and overthrowing Burgundy.
                        This purpose, our informant tells us, has been fostered by this same Duke
                        Frederick of Styria."
                    "This news, I suppose, is intended for our ears by the Duke of Styria. He
                        probably wishes us to know that he is against us," said Charles. "He wanted
                        our daughter for his clown of a son, and our contempt for his claims rankles
                        in his heart. He cannot inflame Würtemberg, and Würtemberg cannot influence
                        the other German princes."
                    The duke paused, and Campo-Basso proceeded:—
                    "The citizens of Ghent, my lord, petition Your Grace for the restoration of
                        certain communal rights, and beg for the abolition of the hearth tax and the
                        salt levy. They also desire the right to elect their own burgomaster
                        and—"
                    
                    "Give me the petition," demanded the duke. Campo-Basso handed the parchment
                        to Charles, and he tore it to shreds.
                    "Send these to the dogs of Ghent, and tell them that for every scrap of
                        parchment I'll take a score of heads when I return from Switzerland."
                    "We hear also, my lord," said the Italian, "that King Edward of England is
                        marshalling an army, presumably for the invasion of France and, because of
                        the close union that is soon to be between King Louis and Burgundy, I have
                        thought proper to lay the news before Your Grace."
                    "Edward wants more of King Louis' gold," answered Charles. "We'll let him get
                        it. We care not how much he has from this crafty miser of the Seine. Louis
                        will buy the English ministers, and the army will suddenly vanish. When King
                        Edward grows scarce of gold, he musters an army, or pretends to do so, and
                        Louis fills the English coffers. The French king would buy an apostle, or
                        the devil, and would sell his soul to either to serve a purpose. Have you
                        more in your budget, Sir Count?"
                    "I have delivered all, I believe, my lord," answered Campo-Basso.
                    "It might have been worse," said the duke, rising to quit his throne.
                    "One moment, my lord! There is another matter to which I wish to call Your
                        Grace's attention before  you rise," said the
                        count. "I have for your signature the warrants for the execution of the
                        Swiss spies, who, Your Highness may remember, were entrapped and arrested by
                        the watchfulness of Your Grace's faithful servant, the noble Count
                        Calli."
                    "Give me the warrant," said the duke, "and let the execution take place at
                        once."
                    Hymbercourt had been standing in the back part of the room, paying little
                        attention to the proceedings, but the mention of Calli's name in connection
                        with the Swiss spies quickly roused him, and he hurriedly elbowed his way to
                        the ducal throne. A page was handing Charles a quill and an ink-well when
                        Hymbercourt spoke:—
                    "My Lord Duke, I beg you not to sign the warrant until I have asked a few
                        questions of my Lord Campo-Basso concerning these alleged spies."
                    "Why do you say 'alleged spies,' my Lord d'Hymbercourt?" asked the duke. "Do
                        you know anything of them? Are they friends of yours?"
                    "If they are friends of mine, Your Grace may be sure they are not spies,"
                        answered Hymbercourt. "I am not sure that I know these men, but I fear a
                        mistake has been made."
                    A soft cry, a mere exclamation, was heard behind the chancel in the ladies'
                        gallery, which was above the throne, a little to the right. But it caused no
                        comment other than a momentary turning of heads in that direction.
                    
                    "On what ground do you base your suspicion, my lord?" asked Charles.
                    "Little ground, Your Grace," answered Hymbercourt. "I may be entirely wrong;
                        but I beg the privilege of asking the noble Count Calli two or three
                        questions before Your Grace signs the death warrant. We may avert a grave
                        mistake and prevent a horrible crime."
                    "It is a waste of valuable time," answered Charles, "but if you will be
                        brief, you may proceed. Count Calli, come into presence."
                    Calli stepped forward and saluted the duke on bended knee.
                    "Your questions, Hymbercourt, and quickly," said Charles, testily. "We are in
                        haste. Time between the arrest and the hanging of a spy is wasted."
                    "I thank you, my lord," said Hymbercourt. He then turned to Calli, and asked,
                        "When were these men arrested?"
                    "More than a fortnight ago," answered Calli.
                    "How came you to discover they were spies?" asked Hymbercourt.
                    "I watched them, and their actions were suspicious," replied the Italian.
                    "In what respect were they suspicious?"
                    "They went abroad only at night, and one of them was seen near the castle
                        several evenings after dark," responded Calli.
                    
                    "Is that your only evidence against them?" demanded Hymbercourt.
                    "It is surely enough," replied Calli, "but if more is wanted, they were
                        overheard to avow their guilt."
                    "What were they heard to say and where did they say it?" asked
                        Hymbercourt.
                    "I lay concealed, with six men-at-arms, near the river in the garden of The
                        Mitre Inn, where the spies had been bathing. We heard them speak many words
                        of treason against our gracious Lord Duke, but I did not move in their
                        arrest until the younger man said to his companion: 'I will to-morrow gain
                        entrance to the castle as a pedler and will stab this Duke Charles to death.
                        You remain near the Postern with the horses, and I will try to escape to
                        you. If the gate should be closed, ride away without me and carry the news
                        to the cantons. I would gladly give my life to save the fatherland.'"
                    "Hang them," cried the duke. "We are wasting time."
                    "I pray your patience, my Lord Duke," said Hymbercourt, holding up his hand
                        protestingly. "I know these men whom Count Calli has falsely accused. They
                        are not spies; they are not Swiss; neither are they enemies of Burgundy.
                        Were they so, I, my lord, would demand their death were they a thousand-fold
                        my friends. I stake my life upon their honesty. I offer my person and my
                        estates as hostages for  them, and make myself
                        their champion. Count Calli lies."
                    Hymbercourt's words caused a great commotion in the hall. Swords and daggers
                        sprang from the scabbards of the Italians, and cries of indignation were
                        uttered by the mercenaries, who saw their crime exposed, and by the
                        Burgundians, who hated the Italians and their dastardly methods. Charles
                        commanded silence, and Campo-Basso received permission to speak.
                    "Since when did my Lord d'Hymbercourt turn traitor?" said he. "His fealty has
                        always been as loud-mouthed as the baying of a wolf."
                    "I am a Burgundian, my lord," said Hymbercourt, ignoring the Italian and
                        addressing Charles. "I receive no pay for my fealty. I am not a foreign
                        mercenary, and I need not defend my loyalty to one who knows me as he knows
                        his own heart."
                    "My Lord d'Hymbercourt's honor needs no defence," said Charles. "I trust his
                        honesty and loyalty as I trust myself. He may be mistaken; he may be right.
                        Bring in these spies."
                    "Surely Your Grace will not contaminate your presence with these wretches,"
                        pleaded Campo-Basso. "Consider the danger to yourself, my dear lord. They
                        are desperate men, who would gladly give their lives to take yours and save
                        their country. I beg you out of the love I bear Your Grace, pause before  you bring these traitorous spies into your
                        sacred presence."
                    "Bring them before me!" cried the duke. "We will determine this matter for
                        ourselves. We have a score of brave, well-paid Italians who may be able to
                        protect our person from the onslaught of two manacled men."
                    On this same morning the guard had been to my cell with bread and water, and
                        had departed. I did not know, of course, whether it was morning, noon, or
                        night, but I had learned to measure with some degree of accuracy the lapse
                        of time between the visits of the guard, and was surprised to hear the rusty
                        lock turn long before the time for his reappearance. When the man entered my
                        cell, bearing his lantern, he said:—
                    "Come with me."
                    The words were both welcome and terrible. I could not know their meaning
                        — whether it was liberty or death. I stepped from the cell and,
                        while I waited for the guard to relock the door, I saw the light of a
                        lantern at the other end of a passageway. Two men with Max between them came
                        out of the darkness and stopped in front of me. Our wrists were manacled
                        behind us, and we could not touch hands. I could have wept for joy and grief
                        at seeing Max.
                    
                    "Forgive me, Max, for bringing you to this," I cried.
                    "Forgive me, Karl. It is I who have brought you to these straits," said Max.
                        "Which is it to be, think you, Karl, liberty or death?"
                    "God only knows," I answered.
                    "For your sake, Karl, I hope He cares more than I. I would prefer death to
                        the black cell I have just left."
                    We went through many dark passageways and winding stairs to the audience
                        hall.
                    When we entered the hall, the courtiers fell back, leaving an aisle from the
                        great double doors to the ducal throne. When we approached the duke, I bent
                        my knee, but Max simply bowed.
                    "Kneel!" cried Campo-Basso, addressing Max.
                    "If my Lord of Burgundy demands that I kneel, I will do so, but it is more
                        meet that he should kneel to me for the outrage that has been put upon me at
                        his court," said Max, gazing unfalteringly into the duke's face.
                    "Who are you?" demanded the duke, speaking to me.
                    "I am Sir Karl de Pitti," I replied. "Your Grace may know my family; we are
                        of Italy. It was once my good fortune to serve under your father and
                        yourself. My young friend is known as Sir Maximilian du Guelph."
                    
                    "He is known as Guelph, but who is he?" demanded Charles.
                    "That question I may not answer, my lord," said I, speaking in the Walloon
                        tongue.
                    "You shall answer or die," returned the duke, angrily.
                    "I hope my Lord of Burgundy will not be so harsh with us," interrupted Max,
                        lifting his head and speaking boldly. "We have committed no crime, and do
                        not know why we have been arrested. We beg that we may be told the charge
                        against us, and we would also know who makes the charge."
                    "Count Calli," said the duke, beckoning that worthy knight, "come forward and
                        speak."
                    Calli came forward, knelt to the duke, and said:
                    "I, my lord, charge these unknown men as being Swiss spies and assassins, who
                        seek to murder Your Grace and to betray Burgundy."
                    "You lie, you dog," cried Max, looking like an angry young god. "You lie in
                        your teeth and in your heart. My Lord of Burgundy, I demand the combat
                        against this man who seeks my life by treachery and falsehood. I waive my
                        rank for the sweet privilege of killing this liar."
                    "My Lord Duke," I exclaimed, interrupting Max, "if my Lord d'Hymbercourt is
                        in presence, I beg that I may have speech with him."
                    Hymbercourt stepped to my side, and the duke signified permission to
                        speak.
                    
                    "My Lord d'Hymbercourt," said I, turning to my friend, "I beg you to tell His
                        Grace that we are not spies. I may not, for reasons well known to you, give
                        you permission to inform His Grace who my young companion is, and I hope my
                        Lord of Burgundy will be satisfied with your assurance that we are honest
                        knights who wish only good to this land and its puissant ruler."
                    "Indeed, my Lord Duke, I was right," answered Hymbercourt. "Again I offer my
                        person and my estates as hostages for these men. They are not spies. They
                        are not of Switzerland, nor are they friends to the Swiss; neither are they
                        enemies of Burgundy. I doubt not they will gladly join Your Lordship in this
                        war against the cantons. These knights have been arrested to gratify revenge
                        for personal injury received and deserved by this traitorous Count
                        Calli."
                    "It is false," cried Campo-Basso.
                    "It is true — pitifully true, my lord," returned Hymbercourt. "This
                        young knight was at the moat bridge near Castleman's House under the Wall
                        talking with a burgher maid, Fräulein Castleman. Count Calli stole upon them
                        without warning and insulted the maiden. My young friend knocked down the
                        ruffian, and, in the conflict that ensued, broke Calli's arm. Your Grace may
                        have seen him carrying it in a sling until within the last forty-eight
                        hours.
                    "For this deserved chastisement Count Calli seeks  the young man's life by bearing false witness against him; and
                        with it that of my old friend, Sir Karl de Pitti. It is Burgundy's shame, my
                        lord, that these treacherous mercenaries should be allowed to murder
                        strangers and to outrage Your Grace's loyal subjects in the name of Your
                        Lordship's justice. Sir Maximilian du Guelph has demanded the combat against
                        this Count Calli. Sir Maximilian is a spurred and belted knight, and under
                        the laws of chivalry even Your Grace may not gainsay him."
                    "My lord, I do not fight assassins and spies," said Calli, addressing the
                        duke.
                    "I do," cried Max, "when they put injuries upon me as this false coward has
                        done. I will prove upon his body, my Lord Duke, who is the assassin and the
                        spy. My Lord d'Hymbercourt will vouch that my rank entitles me to fight in
                        knightly combat with any man in this presence. My wrists are manacled, my
                        lord, and I have no gage to throw before this false knight; but, my Lord of
                        Burgundy, I again demand the combat. One brave as Your Grace is must also be
                        just. We shall leave Count Calli no excuse to avoid this combat, even if I
                        must tell Your Grace my true rank and station."
                    "This knight," said Hymbercourt, addressing Charles and extending his hand
                        toward Max, "is of birth entitling him to meet in the lists any knight in
                        Burgundy, and I will gladly stand his sponsor."
                    
                    "My Lord d'Hymbercourt's sponsorship proves any man," said the duke, who well
                        knew that Campo-Basso and his friends would commit any crime to avenge an
                        injury, fancied or real.
                    "My Lord Duke, I pray your patience," said Campo-Basso, obsequiously. "No man
                        may impugn my Lord d'Hymbercourt's honesty, but may he not be mistaken? In
                        the face of the evidence against this man, may he not be mistaken? The six
                        men who were with Count Calli will testify to the treasonable words spoken
                        by this young spy."
                    "Does any other man in presence know these men?" asked the duke. No one
                        responded.
                    After a little time Hymbercourt broke silence.
                    "I am grieved and deeply hurt, my lord, that you should want other evidence
                        than mine against the witnesses who make this charge. I am a Burgundian.
                        These witnesses are Italians who love Your Grace for the sake of the gold
                        they get. I had hoped that my poor services had earned for me the right to
                        be believed, but if I may have a little time, I will procure another man
                        whose word shall be to you as the word of your father."
                    "Bring him into our presence," answered the duke. "We will see him to-morrow
                        at this hour."
                    "May I not crave Your Grace's indulgence for a half-hour?" pleaded
                        Hymbercourt. "I will have this man here within that time."
                    
                    "Not another minute," replied the duke. "Heralds, cry the rising."
                    "Oyez! Oyez! Oyez! His Grace, the Duke of Burgundy, is about to rise. His
                        Grace has risen," cried the herald.
                    The duke left the hall by a small door near the dais.
                    Hymbercourt was standing beside us when the captain of the guard approached
                        to lead us back to our cells.
                    "May we not have comfortable quarters, and may we not be placed in one cell?"
                        I asked, appealing to Hymbercourt. "I have been confined in a reeking,
                        rayless dungeon unfit for swine, and doubtless Sir Max has been similarly
                        outraged."
                    Hymbercourt put his hand into his pouch and drew forth two gold pieces. These
                        he stealthily placed in the captain's hand, and that worthy official
                        said:—
                    "I shall be glad to oblige, my lord."
                    Hymbercourt left us, and Campo-Basso, beckoning the captain to one side,
                        spoke to him in low tones. The captain, I was glad to see, was a
                        Burgundian.
                    After we left the hall we were taken to our old quarters. The captain
                        followed me into the cell, leaving his men in the passageway.
                    "My Lord Count ordered me to bring you here," he said; "but I will, if I can,
                        soon return with other  men who are not
                        Italians and will remove you to a place of safety."
                    "Am I not safe here? Is my friend in danger?" I asked.
                    The man smiled as though amused at my simplicity:—
                    "If you remain here to-night, there will be no need to hang you in the
                        morning. Our Italian friends have methods of their own that are simple and
                        sure. But I will try to find a way to remove you before — before
                        the Italians have time to do their work. I will see my Lord d'Hymbercourt,
                        and if the duke has not gone a-hunting, we will induce His Grace to order
                        your removal to a place of safety."
                    "But if the duke is gone, cannot you get the order when he returns?" I
                        asked.
                    "That will be too late, I fear," he answered, laughing, and with these
                        comforting remarks he left me.
                    After two or three hours — the time seemed days — I heard a
                        key enter the lock of my cell door. If the hand inserting the key was that
                        of an Italian, I might look for death. To my great joy the man was my
                        Burgundian captain.
                    "The duke had gone a-hunting," he said, "and I could not find my Lord
                        d'Hymbercourt; but Her Highness, the princess, asked me to remove you, and I
                        am willing to risk my neck for her sweet sake.  I am to place you in one of the tower rooms, out of the reach of our
                        Italian cutthroats."
                    "Will my young friend be with me?" I asked eagerly.
                    "Yes," responded the captain.
                    Again I met Max with a man-at-arms in the passageway outside my cell door,
                        and we all went up the steps together. We were hurried through dark passages
                        to a spiral stairway, which we climbed till my knees ached. But we were
                        going up instead of down, and I was overjoyed to have the aching leave my
                        heart for my knees.
                    The room in which the Burgundian left us was large and clean. There were two
                        beds of sweet straw upon the floor, and to my unspeakable joy there was a
                        bar on the door whereby it could be locked from within. There were also two
                        tubs of water for a bath. On a rude bench was a complete change of clothing
                        which had been brought by some kind hand from the inn. On an oak table were
                        two bottles of wine, a bowl of honey, a cellar of pepper, white bread, cold
                        meat, and pastry. A soul reaching heaven out of purgatory must feel as we
                        felt then. We were too excited to eat, so we bathed, dressed, and lay down
                        on the straw beds.
                    Before leaving us our captain had said:—
                    "Do not unbolt your door except to the password 'Burgundy.'"
                    
                    We slept till late in the afternoon. When we wakened the sun was well down in
                        the west, and we could see only its reflected glare in the eastern sky.
                        There was but one opening in the room through which the light could enter
                        — a narrow window, less than a foot wide. The light in the room was
                        dim even at noon, but the long darkness had so affected our eyes that the
                        light from the window was sufficient to illumine the apartment and to make
                        all objects plainly discernible. There was little to be seen. The arched
                        roof was of solid masonry; the walls were without a break save the narrow
                        window and the door. Through the window we could see only a patch of sky in
                        the east, reddened by the reflection of the sinking sun; but the sight was
                        so beautiful that Max and I were loath to leave it even for supper.
                    "We must eat before the light dies," said Max, whose young stomach was more
                        imperious than mine, "or we shall have to eat in the dark. I have had more
                        than enough of that."
                    "Fall to," I said, as we drew the stools to the table. With the first
                        mouthful of clean, delicious food my appetite returned, and I ate
                        ravenously. Had the repast been larger I believe we should have killed
                        ourselves. Fortunately it was consumed before we were exhausted, and we came
                        off alive and victorious. After supper darkness fell, and Max  sat beside me on the bench. He was very
                        happy, for he felt that our troubles would end with the night. I put my arm
                        over his neck and begged him to forgive me for bringing this evil upon
                        him.
                    "You shall not blame yourself, Karl," he protested. "There is no fault in
                        you. No one is to blame save myself; I should not have gone to the bridge. I
                        wonder what poor Yolanda is doing. Perhaps she is suffering in fear and is
                        ignorant of our misfortune. Perhaps she thinks I have broken my promise and
                        left Peronne. I can see her stamp her little foot, and I see her great eyes
                        flashing in anger. Each new humor in her seems more beautiful than the last,
                        Karl. Knowing her, I seem to have known all mankind — at least, all
                        womankind. She has wakened me to life. Her touch has unsealed my eyes, and
                        the pain that I take from my love for her is like a foretaste of heaven. I
                        believe that a man comes to his full strength, mental and moral, only
                        through the elixir of pain."
                    "We surely have had our share of late," I said dolefully.
                    "All will soon be well with us, Karl; do not fear. We shall be free
                        to-morrow, and I will kill this Calli. Then I'll go back to Styria a better,
                        wiser, stronger man than I could ever have been had I remained at home. This
                        last terrible experience has been the keystone of my regeneration. It has
                        taught me to be  merciful even to the guilty,
                        and gentle with the accused. No man shall ever suffer at my command until he
                        has been proved guilty. Doubtless thousands of innocent men as free from
                        crime and evil intent as we, are wasting their lives away in dungeons as
                        loath-some as those that imprisoned us."
                    "Calli will not fight you," I said.
                    "If he refuses, I will kill him at the steps of the throne of Burgundy, let
                        the result be what it may. God will protect me in my just vengeance. I will
                        then go home; and I'll not return to Burgundy till I do so at the head of an
                        army, to compel Duke Charles to behead Campo-Basso."
                    "What will you do about Yolanda, Max?" I asked.
                    The interference of the princess in our behalf had thrown more light on my
                        important riddle, and once again I was convinced that she was Yolanda.
                    "I'll keep her in my heart till I die, Karl," he responded, "and I pray God
                        to give her a happier life than mine can be. That is all I can do."
                    "Will you see her before you go?" I asked, fully intending that there should
                        be no doubt on the question.
                    "Yes, and then —" He paused; and, after a little time, I
                        asked:—
                    "And what then, Max?"
                    "God only knows what, Karl. I'm sure I don't," he answered.
                    
                    We talked till late into the night, lay down on our soft, clean beds of
                        straw, and were soon asleep.
                    I did not know how long I had been sleeping when I was wakened by a voice
                        that seemed to fill the room, low, soft, and musical as the tones of an
                        Æolian harp. I groped my way noiselessly in the dark to Max's bed and
                        aroused him. Placing my hand over his mouth to insure silence, I
                        whispered:—
                    "Listen!"
                    He rested on his elbow, and we waited. After a few seconds the voice again
                        resounded through the room, soft as a murmured ave, distinct as the notes of
                        a bird. Max clutched my hand. Soon the voice came again, and we heard the
                        words:—
                    "Little Max, do you hear? Answer softly."
                    "I hear," responded Max.
                    There was an uncanny note in the music of the voice. It seemed almost
                        celestial. We could not tell whence it came. Every stone in the walls and
                        ceiling, every slab in the floor seemed resonant with silvery tones. After
                        Max had answered there was a pause lasting two or three minutes, and the
                        voice spoke again:—
                    "I love you, Little Max. I tell you because I wish to comfort you. Do not
                        fear. You shall be free to-morrow. Do not answer. Adieu."
                    "Yolanda! Yolanda!" cried Max, pleadingly; but he received no answer. He put
                        his hand on my shoulder and said:—
                    
                    "It was Yolanda, Karl — ah, God must hate a child that He brings
                        into the world a prince."
                    For the rest of the night we did not sleep, neither did we speak. The morrow
                        was to be a day of frightful import to us, and we awaited it in great
                        anxiety.
                    When the morning broke and the sun shot his rays through the narrow window,
                        we carefully examined the floor and walls of our room, but we found no
                        opening through which the voice could have penetrated. In the side of the
                        room formed by the wall of the tower, the mortar had fallen from between two
                        stones, leaving one of them somewhat loose, but the castle wall at that
                        point was fully sixteen feet thick, and it was impossible that the voice
                        should have come through the layers of stone.
                    From my first acquaintance with Yolanda there had seemed to be a supernatural
                        element in her nature, an elfin quality in her face and manner that could
                        not be described. Max had often told me that she impressed him in like
                        manner. The voice in our stone-girt chamber, coming as it did from nowhere,
                        and resounding as it did everywhere, intensified that feeling till it was
                        almost a conviction, though I am slow to accept supernatural explanations
                        — a natural one usually exists. Of course, there are rare instances
                        of supernatural power vested in men and women, and Yolanda's great, burning
                        eyes caused me  at times, almost to believe
                        that she was favored with it.
                    The voice that we had heard was unquestionably Yolanda's, but by what strange
                        power it was enabled to penetrate our rock-ribbed prison and give tongues to
                        the cold stones I could not guess, though I could not stop trying. Here was
                        another riddle set by this marvellous girl for my solving. This riddle,
                        however, helped to solve the first, and confirmed my belief that Yolanda was
                        Mary of Burgundy.
                    After breakfast Max and I were taken to the great hall, where we found
                        Castleman standing before the ducal throne, speaking to Charles. The burgher
                        turned toward us, and as we approached I heard him say:—
                    "My lord, these men are not spies."
                    "Who are they?" demanded the duke.
                    Castleman gave our names and told the story of our meeting at Basel, after we
                        had escorted Merchant Franz from Cannstadt. Then he narrated Max's adventure
                        at the moat bridge, closing with:—
                    "Count Calli grossly insulted Fräulein Castleman, for which Sir Max chastised
                        him; and no doubt, my lord, this arrest has been made for revenge."
                    "Has the younger man name or title other than you have given?" asked
                        Charles.
                    The burgher hesitated before he answered:—
                    "He has, my lord, though I may not disclose it to Your Grace without his
                        permission, unless you  order me so to do upon
                        my fealty. That I humbly beg Your Grace not to do."
                    "I beg Your Grace not to ask me to disclose my identity at this time," said
                        Max. "I am willing, should you insist upon knowing who I am, to tell it
                        privately in Your Grace's ear; but I am travelling incognito with my friend,
                        Sir Karl de Pitti, and I beg that I may remain so. My estate is neither very
                        great nor very small, but what it is I desire for many reasons not to
                        divulge. These reasons in no way touch Burgundy, and I am sure Your Grace
                        will not wish to intrude upon them. Within a month, perhaps within a few
                        days, I will enlighten you. If you will permit me to remain in Peronne, I
                        will communicate my reasons to you personally; if I leave, I will write to
                        Your Grace. I give my parole that I will, within a month, surrender myself
                        to Your Lordship, if you are not satisfied, upon hearing my explanations,
                        that my word is that of an honorable knight, and my station one worthy of
                        Your Grace's respect. I hope my Lord d'Hymbercourt and my good friend
                        Castleman will stand as hostages for me in making this pledge."
                    Both men eagerly offered their persons and their estates as hostages, and the
                        duke, turning to the captain of the guard, said:—
                    "Remove the manacles from these knights."
                    The chains were removed, and the duke, coming 
                        down to the last step of the dais, looked into Max's face.
                    Max calmly returned the fierce gaze without so much as the faltering of an
                        eyelid.
                    "All step back save this young man," ordered the duke, extending his open
                        palm toward the courtiers.
                    We all fell away, but the duke said:—
                    "Farther back, farther back, I say! Don't crowd in like a pack of yokels at a
                        street fight!"
                    Charles was acting under great excitement. I was not sure that it was not
                        anger since his mien looked much like it. I did not know what was going to
                        happen, and was in an agony of suspense. Anything was possible with this
                        brutish duke when his brain was crazed with passion.
                    All who had been near the ducal throne moved back, till no one was within ten
                        yards of Charles save Max. The duke wore a dagger and a shirt of mail; Max
                        wore neither arms nor armor. After the courtiers stepped back from the
                        throne a deep, expectant hush fell upon the room. No one could guess the
                        intentions of this fierce, cruel duke, and I was terribly apprehensive for
                        Max's safety. Had Max been armed, I should have had no fear for him at the
                        hands of the duke or any other man.
                    Charles stepped from the dais to the floor beside Max, still gazing fixedly
                        into his face. The men were within four feet of each other. The silence  in the room was broken only by the heavy
                        breathing of excited courtiers. The duke's voice sounded loud and harsh when
                        he spoke to Max, and his breath came in hoarse gusts:—
                    "You are accused, Sir Knight, by credible witnesses of intent to murder me.
                        For such a crime it is my privilege to kill you here and now with my own
                        hand. What have you to say?"
                    Charles paused for a reply, drawing his dagger from its sheath. When Max saw
                        the naked weapon, I noticed that he gave a start, though it was almost
                        imperceptible. He at once recovered himself, and straightening to his full
                        height, stepped to within two feet of the duke.
                    "If I plotted or intended to kill you, my lord," said Max, less moved than
                        any other man in the room, "it is your right to kill me; but even were I
                        guilty I doubt if my Lord of Burgundy, who is noted the world over for his
                        bravery, would strike an unarmed man. If Your Grace wished to attack me, you
                        would give me arms equal to your own. If you should kill me, unarmed as I
                        am, you would be more pitiable than any other man in Burgundy. You would
                        despise yourself, and all mankind would spurn you."
                    "Do you not fear me?" asked the duke, still clutching the hilt of his
                        unsheathed dagger.
                    "I do not believe you have the least intent to kill me," answered Max, "but
                        if you have, you may  easily do so, and I
                        shall be less to be pitied than you. No, I do not fear you! Do I look it, my
                        lord?"
                    "No, by God, you don't look it. Neither have you cause to fear me," said
                        Charles. "There is not another man in Christendom could have stood this
                        ordeal without flinching."
                    To a brave man, bravery is above all the cardinal virtue. Charles turned
                        toward his courtiers and continued:—
                    "There is one man who does not fear me—man, say I? He is little more
                        than a boy. Men of Burgundy, take a lesson from this youth, and bear it in
                        mind when we go to war."
                    The duke began to unbuckle his shirt of mail, speaking as he did
                        so:—
                    "I'll soon learn who has lied. I'll show this boy that I am as brave as
                        he."
                    Charles turned to Calli.
                    "Sir Count, did you not say this knight wished to kill me, even at the cost
                        of his own life?"
                    "I so said, my lord, and so maintain upon my honor as a knight and upon my
                        hope of salvation as a Christian. I so heard him avow," answered Calli.
                    "I will quickly prove or disprove your words, Sir Count," said the duke,
                        removing his mail shirt and throwing it to the floor. Then he turned to Max
                        and offered him the hilt of his dagger: "If you would purchase my death at
                        the cost of your life,  here is my dagger, and
                        you may easily make the barter. I am unarmed. One blow from that great arm
                        of yours will end all prospects of war with your Switzerland."
                    Max hesitatingly took the dagger and looked with a puzzled expression from it
                        to the duke's face. Campo-Basso and his Italian friends moved toward their
                        lord as if to protect him, but Charles waved them back with a protesting
                        palm.
                    "Switzerland is not my native land, Your Grace, nor do I seek your life. Take
                        your dagger," said Max.
                    "I offer you better terms," said Charles. "If you wish to kill me, I now give
                        you safe conduct beyond the borders of Burgundy."
                    "My lord, you are mistaken," said Max, impatiently, tossing the dagger to the
                        floor and stepping back from the duke. A soft ripple of laughter was heard
                        in the ladies' gallery.
                    "No, it is not I that am mistaken," said Charles. "It is Campo-Basso and his
                        friends. Count Calli, prepare to give the combat to this knight, whoever he
                        may be, and God have mercy on your soul, for the day of your death is at
                        hand."
                    Another ripple of soft laughter came from the ladies' gallery.
                    "I cannot fight him," wailed Calli. "I am suffering from a broken arm. My
                        horse fell with me three weeks ago, as Your Grace well knows."
                    
                    "When your arm mends, you must fight and prove your cause, or by the soul of
                        God, you hang! We'll make a fête of this combat, and another of your
                        funeral. There shall be a thousand candles, and masses sufficient to save
                        the soul of Satan himself. My Lord Campo-Basso, let not the like of this
                        happen again. Vengeance in Burgundy is mine, not my Italians'. Heralds,
                        dismiss the company. These men are free."
                    All departed save Castleman, Hymbercourt, Max, and myself, who remained at
                        the duke's request.
                    "If you will remain at the castle, you are most welcome," said Charles,
                        addressing Max and me.
                    I would have jumped at the offer, but Max thanked the duke and declined.
                    "We will, with Your Grace's permission, remain at Grote's inn for a short
                        time and then ask leave to depart from Burgundy."
                    The duke answered:—
                    "As you will. I do not press you. If you change your mind, come to the
                        castle, and you will be very welcome."
                    He turned and, with brief adieu, left the great hall by the small door near
                        the dais. Castleman, Hymbercourt, and Max passed out through the great
                        doors, and I was about to follow them when I was startled by the voice I had
                        heard in the night:—
                    "Little Max, Little Max," came softly from the ladies' gallery.
                    
                    I paused to hear more, but all was silent in the great hall. The words could
                        have come from no other lips than Yolanda's—Mary's. True, I
                        reasoned, Yolanda might be one of the ladies of the court, perhaps a near
                        relative of the duke. Once the horrifying thought that he was her lover came
                        to my mind, but it fled instantly. There was no evil in Yolanda.
                    Max did not hear the voice. I intended to tell him of it when we should reach
                        the inn, and I thought to tell him also that I believed Yolanda was the
                        Princess Mary. I changed my mind, however, and again had reason to be
                        thankful for my silence.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII
                    A LIVE WREN PIE
                    
                        THE next day came the invitation to sup at Castleman's,
                        and we were on hand promptly at the appointed time — four o'clock.
                        Before leaving the inn I had determined to ask Castleman to satisfy my
                        curiosity concerning Yolanda. With good reason I felt that it was my duty
                        and my right to know certainly who she was. She might not be Mary of
                        Burgundy, but she surely was not a burgher girl, and in some manner she was
                        connected with the court of Duke Charles.
                    Max and I were sitting in the long room (it was on the ground floor and
                        extended across the entire front of the house) with Castleman when Frau Kate
                        entered followed by Yolanda and Twonette. The frau courtesied, and gave us
                        welcome. Twonette courtesied and stepped to her father's side. Yolanda gave
                        Max her hand and lifted it to be kissed. The girl laughed joyously, and,
                        giving him her other hand, stood looking up into his face. Her laughter soon
                        became nervous, and that change in a womanly 
                        woman is apt to be the forerunner of tears. They soon came to moisten
                        Yolanda's eyes, but she kept herself well in hand and said:—
                    "It has been a very long time, Sir Max, since last I saw you."
                    "A hard, cruel time for me, Fräulein. Your hotheaded duke gives strange
                        license to his murderous courtiers," answered Max.
                    "It has been a hard time for others, too," she responded. "Hard for uncle,
                        hard for tante, hard for Twonette — very hard for Twonette." She
                        spoke jestingly, but one might easily see her emotion.
                    "And you, Fräulein?" he asked smilingly.
                    "I — I dare not say how hard it has been for me, Little Max. Do you
                        not see? I fear — I fear I shall — weep — if I
                        try to tell you. I am almost weeping now. I fear I have grown gray because
                        of it," she answered, closing with a nervous laugh. Max, too, could hardly
                        speak. She smiled up into his face, and bending before him stood on tiptoe
                        to bring the top of her head under his inspection.
                    "You may see the white hairs if you look care-fully," she said.
                    Max laughed and stooped to examine the great bush of fluffy dark hair.
                    "I see not one white hair," he said.
                    "Look closely," she insisted.
                    He looked closely, and startled us all, including  Yolanda, by putting his lips to the fragrant, silky mass.
                    "Ah!" exclaimed Yolanda, stepping back from him and placing her hand to the
                        top of her head on the spot that he had kissed. She looked up to him with a
                        fluttering little laugh:—
                    "I — I did not know you were going to do that."
                    "Neither did I," said Max.
                    Castleman and his wife looked displeased and Twonette's face wore an
                        expression of amused surprise.
                    After a constrained pause Frau Katherine said:—
                    "Our guests are not in the habit of kissing us."
                    "No one has kissed you, tante," retorted Yolanda, "nor do they intend to do
                        so. Do not fear. I — I brought it on myself, and if I do not
                        complain, you may bear up under it."
                    "It certainly is unusual to —" began the frau.
                    "Tante," cried Yolanda, flushing angrily and stamping her foot. Tante was
                        silent.
                    "Your words night before last brought marvellous comfort to us, Fräulein,"
                        said Max. "Where were you, and how —"
                    "My words? Night before last?" asked Yolanda, in open-eyed wonder. "I have
                        not seen you since three weeks ago."
                    "You called to me in my prison in the tower," said Max. "You called to me by
                        the name you sometimes use."
                    
                    "Ah, that is wonderful," exclaimed Yolanda. "I wakened myself night before
                        last calling your name, and telling you not to fear. I was dreaming that you
                        were in danger, but I also dreamed that you would soon be free. Can it be
                        possible that the voice of a dreamer can travel to a distance and penetrate
                        stone walls? You almost make me fear myself by telling me that you heard my
                        call."
                    Like most persons, Max loved the mysterious, so he at once became greatly
                        interested. He would have discussed the subject further had not Yolanda
                        turned to me, saying:—
                    "Ah, I have not greeted Sir Karl."
                    She gave me her hand, and I would have knelt had she not prevented me by a
                        surprised arching of her eyebrows. My attempt to salute her on my knee was
                        involuntary, but when I saw the warning expression in her eyes, I quickly
                        recovered myself. I bowed and she withdrew her hand.
                    "Let us go to the garden," she suggested.
                    The others left the room, but Yolanda held back and detained me by a
                        gesture.
                    "You would have knelt to me," she said almost angrily.
                    "Yes, mademoiselle," I replied, "the movement was involuntary."
                    "I once warned you, Sir Karl, not to try to learn anything concerning me. I
                        told you that useless  knowledge was
                        dangerous. You have been guessing, and probably are very far wrong in your
                        conclusion. But whatever your surmises are, don't let me know them. Above
                        all, say nothing to Sir Max; I warn you! Unless you would see no more of me,
                        bear this warning in mind. Yolanda is a burgher girl. Treat her accordingly,
                        and impress the fact on Sir Max. Were I as great as the ill-tempered
                        Princess of Burgundy, whose estates you came to woo, I should still despise
                        adulation. Bah! I hate it all," she continued, stamping her foot. "I hate
                        princes and princesses, and do not understand how they can endure to have
                        men kneel and grovel before them. This fine Princess of Burgundy, I am told,
                        looks —" She paused and then went on: "I sometimes hate her most of
                        all. I am a burgher girl, I tell you, and I am proud of it. I warn you not
                        to make me other."
                    "Your warning, my lady, is—"
                    "Fräulein!" interrupted Yolanda, angrily stamping her foot, "or Yolanda
                        — call me either. If I give you the privilege, you should value it
                        sufficiently to use it."
                    "Yolanda, I will sin no more," I responded. Her face broke into a smile, and
                        she took my arm, laughing contentedly.
                    I walked out to the garden — Yolanda danced out — and we
                        sat with the others under the shade of the arbor vines. Castleman and Max
                        drank sparingly of  wine and honey, while I
                        sipped orange water with Yolanda, Twonette, and Frau Kate.
                    "What do you think of Burgundy, Sir Max?" asked the burgher.
                    "I like Grote's inn well," answered Max. "I like the castle dungeon ill. I
                        have seen little else of Burgundy save in our journey down the Somme. Then I
                        saw nothing but the road on the opposite bank. Had I tried to see the
                        country I should have failed; the dust-cloud we carried with us was
                        impenetrable." He turned to Yolanda, "That was a hard journey for you,
                        Fräulein."
                    "No, no," she cried, "it was glorious. The excitement was worth a lifetime of
                        monotony; it was delightful. I could feel my heart beat all the time, and no
                        woman is sure she lives until she feels the beating of her heart."
                    I suspected a double meaning in her words, but no trace of self-consciousness
                        was visible in her face.
                    "I have often wondered, Fräulein, if the papers reached the castle before the
                        duke arrived?" asked Max.
                    "What papers?" queried Yolanda.
                    "Why, the papers we made the mad race to deliver," answered Max.
                    "Oh, y-e-s," responded the girl, "they arrived just in time."
                    "And were delivered at the gate?" I suggested.
                    
                    A quick, angry glance of surprise shot from Yolanda's eyes, and rising from
                        her chair she entered the house. Twonette followed her, and the two did not
                        return for an hour. I was accumulating evidence on the subject of my
                        puzzling riddle, but I feared my last batch might prove expensive. I saw the
                        mistake my tongue had led me into. Many a man has wrecked his fortune by
                        airing his wit.
                    When Yolanda returned, she sat at a little distance from us, pouting
                        beautifully. The cause of her unmistakable ill-humor, of course, was known
                        only to me, and was a source of wonder to Max. At the end of five minutes,
                        during which there had been little conversation, Max, who was amused at
                        Yolanda's pouting, turned to her, and said:—
                    "The Fates owe me a few smiles as compensation for their frowns during the
                        last three weeks. Won't you help them to pay me, Fräulein?"
                    Her face had been averted, but when Max spoke she turned slowly and gave him
                        the smile he desired as if to say, "I am not pouting at you."
                    Her act was so childlike and her face so childishly beautiful that we all
                        smiled with amusement and pleasure. Yolanda saw the smiles and turned on us,
                        pouting though almost ready to laugh. She rose from her chair, stamped her
                        foot, stood irresolutely for a moment, and then breaking into a laugh, drew
                             her chair to our little circle —
                        next to Max — and sat down.
                    "Tante, is supper never to be served?" she asked. "I am impatient to see the
                        live wren pie."
                    "Live wren pie?" asked Max, incredulously.
                    "Yes. Have you never seen one?" asked Yolanda.
                    "Surely not," he replied.
                    "Ah, you have a treat in store," she exclaimed, clapping her hands
                        enthusiastically. "Uncle carves the pie, the wrens fly out, you open your
                        mouth, and the birds, being very small, fly down your throat and save you
                        the trouble of eating them. They are trained to do it, you know."
                    A chorus of laughter followed this remarkable statement. Max leaned forward,
                        rested his elbows on his knees, looked at the ground for the space of half a
                        minute, and said:—
                    "I was mistaken in saying that I had never partaken of the dish. While at
                        Basel I foolishly opened my mouth, and a beautiful little bird flew down my
                        throat to my heart."
                    Frau Castleman coughed, and the burgher moved in his chair and swallowed half
                        a goblet of wine. Twonette laughed outright at the pretty turn Max had made
                        upon Yolanda, and I ridiculously tried to keep my face expressionless.
                        Yolanda laughed flutteringly, and the long lashes fell.
                    
                    "That was prettily spoken, Sir Max," she said, smiling. "No Frenchman could
                        improve upon it. You are constantly surprising me."
                    "Are Frenchmen apt at such matters, Fräulein?" I asked.
                    "I have known but few Frenchmen," she responded. "You know Burgundy and
                        France are natural enemies, like the cat and the dog. I have little love for
                        the French. I speak only from hearsay."
                    "You will do well to learn to like them," I suggested. "Burgundy itself will
                        soon be French, if the Princess Mary weds the Dauphin."
                    By speaking freely of the princess, I hoped Yolanda might believe that,
                        whatever my surmises were concerning her identity, I did not suspect that
                        she was Mademoiselle de Burgundy.
                    Yolanda sighed, but did not answer. Silence fell upon our little party, and
                        after a long pause I turned to Twonette:—
                    "I remember that Franz told me at Basel, Fräulein "Twonette, that you and
                        this famous Princess Mary of Burgundy were friends."
                    "Yes," answered Twonette, with an effort not to smile, "she has, at times,
                        honored me with her notice."
                    "Out of that fact grows Twonette's serene dignity," laughed Yolanda. "On the
                        strength of this acquaintance she quite lords it over us at times, and is
                        always  reminding me of the many haughty
                        virtues of her friend as a pattern that I should follow. You see, I am
                        incessantly confronted with this princess."
                    I thought it was a pretty piece of acting, though the emphasis of her dislike
                        for the princess was unmistakably genuine.
                    "The duke has graciously invited us to the castle," I said, "and I hope to
                        have the honor of seeing the princess."
                    When I spoke of the duke's invitation, I at once caught Yolanda's
                        attention.
                    "You will not meet the princess if you go to the castle," said Yolanda. "She
                        is an ill-natured person, I am told, and is far from gracious to
                        strangers."
                    "I do not hope for such an honor," I replied. "I should like merely to see
                        her before I leave Burgundy. That is all the favor I ask at her hands. She
                        is a lady famed throughout all Europe for her beauty and her
                        gentleness."
                    "She doesn't merit her fame," responded Yolanda, carefully examining her
                        hands folded in her lap, and glancing nervously toward Max.
                    "Do you know Her Highness?" I asked.
                    "I — I have heard enough of her and have often seen her," she
                        replied. "She usually rides out with her ladies at this hour. From the upper
                        end of the garden you may soon see her come through the Postern gate, if you
                        care to watch."
                    
                    "I certainly should like to see her," I answered, rapidly losing faith in my
                        conclusion that Yolanda was the princess.
                    The Castlemans did not offer to move, but Yolanda, springing to her feet,
                        said, "Come," and led the way.
                    The upper end of the garden, as I have told you, was on the banks of the
                        Cologne at a point where it flowed into the castle moat. The castle wall,
                        sixty feet high at that point, bordered the west side of the garden. The
                        moat curved along the right side, and the river flowed past the upper end.
                        Castleman's house faced south, and stood on the lower end of the strip of
                        ground that lay between the castle wall and the moat. The Postern was
                        perhaps three hundred yards north from the upper end of Castleman's garden.
                        Since it was on the opposite side of the river, one could reach the Postern,
                        from Castleman's house, only by going up to the town bridge and back to the
                        castle by the street that followed the north side of the Cologne.
                    We all walked to the upper end of the garden, and stood leaning against the
                        low stone wall at the river's edge. We had waited perhaps ten minutes when
                        we heard a blare of trumpets and saw a small cavalcade of ladies and
                        gentlemen ride from the castle and pass over the drawbridge.
                    "The lady in scarlet is the duchess," said Castleman.
                    
                    "She is English," remarked Yolanda, "and loves bright colors."
                    "Which is the princess?" I asked of Yolanda, feeling that I also was acting
                        my part admirably. To my surprise she answered promptly:—
                    "She in blue with a falcon on her shoulder. Am I not right, uncle?"
                    "Yes," responded Castleman. Twonette confirmed the statement.
                    My air-castles fell noiselessly about my head. My dreams vanished like breath
                        from a cold mirror, and the sphinx-like face of my great riddle rose before
                        me in defiance.
                    After the cavalcade had passed I found myself with Yolanda a dozen paces from
                        the others.
                    "Fräulein," I said, "I want to confess I thought you were the Princess Mary
                        of Burgundy."
                    Yolanda laughed softly.
                    "I was sure you had some such absurd notion. I supposed you had seen her, and
                        had believed she was Yolanda, the burgher girl; that mistake has often been
                        made. You may see this princess at the castle, and I warn you not to be
                        deceived. I have the great honor, it is said, to resemble Her Highness as
                        one pea resembles another. I have been told that she has heard of the
                        low-born maiden that dares to have a face like hers, and she doubtless hates
                        me for it, just as I bear her no good-will for the same reason. When  two women greatly resemble each other, there
                        is seldom good feeling between them. Each believes the other is stealing
                        something of her personality, and a woman's vanity prompts her to resent it.
                        If you make the mistake with the princess that you made with me, I warn you
                        it will not be so easily corrected."
                    My poor riddle! My stony sphinx! My clinging hallucination! Again I should
                        have it with me, stalking at my side by day, lying by me at night, whirling
                        through my brain at all times, and driving me mad with its eternal question,
                        "Who is Yolanda?" The solution of my riddle may be clear to you as I am
                        telling you the story. At least, you may think it is, since I am trying to
                        conceal nothing from you. I relate this history in the order of its
                        happening, and wish, if possible, to place before you the manner in which
                        this question of Yolanda's identity puzzled me. If you will put yourself in
                        my place, you will at once realize how deeply I was affected by this
                        momentous, unanswered, unanswerable question, "Who is Yolanda?" and you will
                        understand why I could not see the solution, however clear you may believe
                        it to be to yourself.
                    We soon went in to supper and, after the peacock, the pheasants, and the
                        pastries were removed, we were served with a most delicious after-dish in
                        sparkling glass cups. It was frozen orange-water mixed with wine of
                        Burgundy. I had never tasted a  dish so
                        palatable. I had dined at the emperor's table in Vienna; I had lived in
                        Italy; I had sojourned in the East, where luxuries are most valued and used,
                        but I had never partaken of a more delicious supper than that which I ate at
                        the house of my rich burgher friend, George Castleman. There might have been
                        a greater showing of plate, though that was not lacking, but there could
                        have been no whiter linen nor more appetizing dishes than those which good
                        Frau Kate gave us that evening.
                    After the frozen wine had disappeared, a serving-maid brought in a stoneware
                        pan covered with a snowy pastry, made from the whites of eggs and clear
                        sugar. At its entry Yolanda clapped her hands and cried out with childish
                        delight. When the pan was placed before Castleman, she
                        exclaimed:—
                    "Be careful, uncle! Don't thrust the knife too deep, or you will kill the
                        birds."
                    Uncle Castleman ran the point of the knife around the outer edge of the
                        crust, and, with a twist of the blade, quickly lifted it from the pan, when
                        out flew a dozen or more wrens. Yolanda's delight knew no bounds. She sprang
                        from her chair, exclaiming:—
                    "Catch them! Catch them!" and led the way.
                    She climbed on chairs, tables, and window shelves, and soon had her hands
                        full of the demure little songsters. Max, too, was pursuing the wrens, and
                        Twonette, losing part of her serenity, actually caught  a bird. The sport was infectious, and soon fat old Castleman
                        was puffing like a tired porpoise, and sedate old Karl de Pitti was in the
                        chase. Frau Katherine grabbed desperately at a bird now and took her chair,
                        laughing and out of breath. Yolanda screamed with laughter, and after she
                        had caught six or seven birds and put them in the cage provided for them,
                        she asked Max to lift her in his arms that she might reach one resting on a
                        beam near the ceiling. Max gladly complied, and Yolanda, having caught the
                        bird, said:—"Now, Sir Max, open your mouth."
                    "I have already swallowed one," said Max, laughing, "and I will swallow none
                        other so long as I live."
                    As Max lowered her to the floor her arm fell about his neck for an instant,
                        and the great strong boy trembled at the touch of this weak girl.
                    Out to the garden we went again after supper, and when dusk began to fall,
                        Yolanda led Max to a rustic seat in the deep shadow of the vines. I could
                        not hear their words, but I learned afterward of the conversation.
                    When I thought Yolanda was the princess, I was joyful because of the marked
                        favor that she showed Max. When I thought she was a burgher girl, I felt
                        like a fussy old hen with a flock of ducks if he were alone with her. She
                        seemed then a bewitching little  ogress slowly
                        devouring my handsome Prince Max. That she was fair, entrancing, and lovable
                        beyond any woman I had ever known, only added to my anxiety. Would Max be
                        strong enough to hold out against her wooing? I don't like to apply the word
                        "wooing" to a young girl's conduct, but we all know that woman does her part
                        in the great system of human mating when the persons most interested do the
                        choosing; and it is right that she should. The modesty that prevents a woman
                        from showing her preference is the result of a false philosophy, and flies
                        in the face of nature. Her right to choose is as good as man's.
                    If Yolanda's wooing was more pronounced than is usual with a modest young
                        girl, it must be remembered that her situation was different. She knew that
                        Max had been restrained from wooing her only because of the impassable gulf
                        that lay between them. Ardor in Max when marriage was impossible would have
                        been an insult to Yolanda. His reticence for conscience' sake and for her
                        sake was the most chivalric flattery he could have paid her. She saw the
                        situation clearly, and, trusting Max implicitly, felt safe in giving rein to
                        her heart. She did not care to hide from him its true condition. On the
                        contrary she wished him to be as sure of her as she was of him, for after
                        all that would be the only satisfaction they would ever know.
                    I argued: If Yolanda were the princess, betrothed  to the Dauphin, the gulf between her and Max was as impassable
                        as if she were a burgher girl. In neither case could she hope to marry him.
                        Therefore, her girlish wooing was but the outcry of nature and was without
                        boldness.
                    The paramount instinct of all nature is to flower. Even the frozen Alpine
                        rock sends forth its edelweiss, and the heart of a princess is first the
                        heart of a woman, and must blossom when its spring comes. All the
                        conventions that man can invent will not keep back the flower. All created
                        things, animate and in-animate, have in them an uncontrollable impulse
                        which, in their spring, reverts with a holy retrospect to the great first
                        principle of existence, the love of reproduction.
                    Yolanda's spring had come, and her heart was a flower with the sacred bloom.
                        Being a woman, she loved it and cuddled it for the sake of the pain it
                        brought, as a mother fondles a wayward child. Max, being a man, struggled
                        against the joy that hurt him and, with a sympathy broad enough for two,
                        feared the pain he might bring to Yolanda. So this unresponsive-ness in Max
                        made him doubly attractive to the girl, who was of the sort, whether royal
                        or bourgeois, before whom men usually fall.
                    "I thought you had left me, Sir Max," she said, drawing him to a seat beside
                        her in the shade.
                    "I promised you I would not go," he responded, 
                        "and I would not willingly break my word to any one, certainly not to you,
                        Fräulein."
                    "I was angry when I heard you had left the inn," she said, "and I spoke
                        unkindly of you. There has been an ache in my heart ever since that nothing
                        but confession and remission will cure."
                    "I grant the remission gladly," answered Max. "There was flattery in your
                        anger."
                    The girl laughed softly and, clasping her hands over her knee, spoke with a
                        sigh.
                    "I think women have the harder part of life in everything. I again ask you to
                        promise me that you will not leave Peronne within a month."
                    "I cannot promise you that, Fräulein," answered Max.
                    "You will some day — soon, perhaps — know my reasons," said
                        Yolanda, "and if they do not prove good I am willing to forfeit your esteem.
                        That is the greatest hostage I can give."
                    "I cannot promise," answered Max, stubbornly.
                    "I offer you another inducement, one that will overmatch the small weight of
                        my poor wishes. I promise to bring you to meet this Mary of Burgundy whom
                        you came to woo. I cannot present you, but I will see that Twonette brings
                        about the meeting. I tell you, as I have already told Sir Karl, that it is
                        said I resemble this princess, so you must not mistake her for me."
                    
                    When Max told me of this offer I wondered if the girl had been testing him,
                        and a light dawned on me concerning her motives.
                    "I did not come to woo her," answered Max, "though she may have been a part
                        of my reason for coming. I knew that she was affianced to the Dauphin of
                        France. Her beauty and goodness were known to me through letters of my Lord
                        d'Hymbercourt, written to my dear old friend Karl. Because of certain
                        transactions, of which you do not know and of which I may not speak, I
                        esteemed her for a time above all women, though I had never seen her. I
                        still esteem her, but — but the other is all past now, Fräulein,
                        and I do not wish to meet the princess, though the honor would be far beyond
                        my deserts."
                    "Why do you not wish to meet her?" asked Yolanda, with an air of pleasure.
                        Max hesitated, then answered bluntly:—
                    "Because I have met you, Fräulein. You should not lead me to speak such
                        words."
                    Yolanda touched Max's arm and said frankly:—
                    "There can be no harm, Max. If you knew all, — if I could tell you
                        all, — you would understand. The words can harm neither of us." She
                        hesitated and, with drooping head, continued: "And they are to me as the sun
                        and the south wind to the flowers and the corn. You already know all that is
                        in my heart, or I would not speak so plainly. In all my life I have  known little of the sweet touch of human
                        sympathy and love, and, Max, my poor heart yearns for them until at times I
                        feel like the flowers without the sun and the corn without the rain,
                        — as if I will die for lack of them. I am almost tempted to tell
                        you all."
                    "Tell me all, Yolanda," entreated Max, "for I, too, have suffered from the
                        same want, though my misfortune comes from being born to a high estate. If
                        you but knew the lonely, corroding misery of those born to a station above
                        the reach of real human sympathy, you would not envy, you would pity them.
                        You would be charitable to their sins, and would thank God for your lowly
                        lot in life. I will tell you my secret. I am Maximilian of Hapsburg."
                    "I have known it since the first day I saw you at Basel," answered
                        Yolanda.
                    "I have felt sure at times that you did," responded Max, "though I cannot
                        think how you learned it. Will you tell me of yourself?"
                    The girl hung her head and hesitated. Once she lifted her face to speak, but
                        changed her mind.
                    "Please don't ask me now. I will tell you soon, but not now, not now. Be
                        patient with me. I do pity you. I do, I do. If we could help each other
                        — but we cannot, and there is no use longing for it. I sometimes
                        fear that your attitude is the right one, and that it is best that we should
                        part and meet no more."
                    
                    The proposition to part and meet no more was good in theory, but Max found
                        that the suggestion to make a fact of it frightened him.
                    "Let us not speak of that now," he said. "The parting will come soon enough.
                        You will surely deem me cold and unworthy, Fräulein, but you cannot
                        understand. One may not call a man hard and selfish who plucks out his eye
                        for the sake of a God-imposed duty, or who deliberately thrusts away
                        happiness and accepts a life of misery and heartache because of the chains
                        with which God bound him at his birth."
                    "Ah, I do understand, Max; I understand only too well," answered the
                        girl.
                    I have often wondered why Max did not suspect that Yolanda was the Princess
                        Mary; but when I considered that he had not my reasons to lead him to that
                        conclusion, I easily understood his blindness, for even I was unconvinced.
                        Had I not overheard Castleman's conversation with Yolanda on the road to
                        Strasburg, after meeting De Rose, the supposition that the burgher girl
                        travelling unattended with a merchant and his daughter could possibly be the
                        Princess Mary would have been beyond the credence of a sane man. The thought
                        never would have occurred to me. Even with Castleman's words always ringing
                        in my ears, I was constantly in doubt.
                    "There is no reason why one should deliberately hasten the day of one's
                        thralldom," said Yolanda,  softly. "If one may
                        be free and happy for an hour without breaking those terrible chains of
                        God's welding, is he not foolish to refuse the small benediction? The memory
                        of it may sweeten the years to come."
                    "To woman, such a memory is sweet," answered Max, striving to steel his heart
                        against the girl. "To men, it is a bitter regret."
                    To me he had spoken differently of his pain.
                    "Then be generous, Little Max, and give me the sweet memory," said the girl,
                        carried away by the swirling impulse of her heart.
                    "You will not need it," answered Max. "Your lot will be different from
                        mine."
                    "Yes, it will be different, Max — it will be worse," she cried
                        passionately, almost in tears. "I think I shall kill myself when you leave
                        Burgundy." She paused and turned fiercely upon him, "Give me the promise I
                        ask. I demand at least that consolation as my right — as a poor
                        return for what you take from me."
                    Max gently took her hand, which was at once lost in his great clasp.
                    "Fräulein, I will not leave Burgundy within a month, whatever the
                        consequences may be," he said tenderly.
                    "Upon your honor?" she asked, joyously clapping her hands.
                    
                    "Every promise I make, Fräulein, is on my honor," said Max, seriously.
                    "So it is, Little Max, so it is," she answered gently. Then they rose and
                        came to the table where Castleman and I were sitting.
                    Yolanda had gained her point and was joyful over her victory.
                    Frau Katherine was asleep in a high-backed chair. Twonette slept in a corner
                        of the arbor, her flaxen head embowered in a cluster of leaves and illumined
                        by a stray beam of moonlight that stole between the vines.
                    "I am going in now. Come, Twonette," said Yolanda, shaking that plump young
                        lady to arouse her. "Come, Twonette."
                    Twonette slowly opened her big blue eyes, but she was slower in
                        awakening.
                    "Twonette! Twonette!" cried Yolanda, pulling at the girl's hand. "I declare,
                        if you don't resist this growing drowsiness you will go down in history as
                        the 'Eighth Sleeper,' and will be left snoring on resurrection morn."
                    When Twonette had awakened sufficiently to walk, we started from the arbor to
                        the house. As we passed from beneath the vines, the frowning wall of the
                        castle and the dark forms of its huge towers, silhouetted in black against
                        the moon-lit sky, formed a picture of fierce and sombre gloom not soon to be
                        forgotten.
                    
                    "The dark, frowning castle reminds one of its terrible lord," said Max,
                        looking up at the battlements.
                    "It does, indeed," answered Yolanda, hardly above a whisper. Then we went
                        into the house.
                    "We hope to see you again for supper to-morrow evening, don't we, uncle?"
                        said Yolanda, addressing Max and me, and turning to Castleman.
                    "Yes — yes, to-morrow evening," said the burgher, hesitatingly.
                    Max accepted the invitation and we made our adieux.
                    At the bridge over the Cologne we met Hymbercourt returning to his house from
                        the castle. While we talked, the cavalcade of ladies and gentlemen that we
                        had watched from Castleman's garden cantered up the street.
                    "You will now see the princess," said Hymbercourt. "She comes with the duke
                        and the duchess. They left the castle at five, and have been riding in the
                        moonlight."
                    We stepped to one side of the street as the cavalcade passed, and I asked
                        Hymbercourt to point out the princess.
                    "She rides between the duke — the tall figure that you may recognize
                        by his long beard — and the page carrying a hooded falcon," he
                        answered.
                    Surely this evidence should have put my mind at rest concerning my
                        hallucination that Yolanda was  Mary of
                        Burgundy; but when we reached the inn and Max told me of his conversation
                        with Yolanda the riddle again sprang up like a jack-in-the-box. I felt that
                        I was growing weak in mind. Yolanda's desire to tell Max her secret, and her
                        refusal; her longing for human sympathy, and the lack of it; her wish that
                        he should remain in Peronne for a month — all these made me feel
                        that she was the princess.
                    I could not help hoping that Hymbercourt was mistaken in pointing out Her
                        Highness. She rode in the shadow of the buildings and the moon was less than
                        half full. Yolanda might have wished to deceive us by pointing out the
                        princess while we watched the cavalcade from Castleman's garden. The burgher
                        and Twonette might have been drawn into the plot against us by the impetuous
                        will of this saucy little witch. Many things, I imagined, had happened which
                        would have appeared absurd to a sane man — but I was not sane. I
                        wished to believe that Yolanda was the princess, and I could not get the
                        notion out of my head.
                    Yolanda's forwardness with Max, if she were Mary of Burgundy, could easily be
                        explained on the ground that she was a princess, and was entitled to speak
                        her mind. I was sure she was a modest girl, therefore, if she were of lowly
                        birth, she would have hesitated to speak so plainly to Max. So, despite
                        overwhelming evidence to the contrary, I refused to  be convinced that Yolanda was not Mademoiselle de Burgundy. I
                        loved the thought so dearly that I could not and would not part with it.
                        That night, while I lay pondering over the riddle, I determined to do no
                        more guessing, and let the Fates solve it for me. They might give me the
                        answer soon if I would "give it up."
                    The next evening we went to Castleman's house, but we did not see Yolanda.
                        Frau Kate said she was indisposed, and we ate supper without her. It was a
                        dull meal, — so much does a good appetite wait upon good company,
                        — and for the first time I realized fully the marvellous quality of
                        this girl's magic spell. Max, of course, was disappointed, and we walked
                        back to The Mitre in silence.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII
                    A BATTLE IN MID AIR
                    
                        A DAY or two after the supper of the wren pie, Max bought
                        from a pedler a gray falcon most beautifully marked, with a scarlet head and
                        neck, and we sent our squires to Hymbercourt, asking him to solicit from the
                        duke's seneschal, my Lord de Vergy, permission to strike a heron on the
                        marshes. The favor was easily obtained, and we went forth that afternoon to
                        try the new hawk.
                    The hours passed quickly. The hawk was perfectly trained, and as fierce as a
                        mountain wildcat. Its combats in mid air were most exciting. It would attack
                        its prey and drive it back to a point nearly over our heads. There it waged
                        the battle of death. It had killed three herons, all of which had fallen at
                        our feet, and we were returning home when a fourth rose from the marsh. We
                        were on a side road or path, perhaps five hundred yards from the main
                        highway.
                    At the moment Max gave wing to his bird, two ladies and three gentlemen came
                        up the road, returning to Peronne, and halted to witness the aërial 
                        
                         combat. That they were of the court, I could
                        easily see by their habits, though the distance was so great that I could
                        not distinguish their faces.
                    Never did hawk acquit itself more nobly. It seemed to realize that it had a
                        distinguished audience. The heron opened the battle desperately, and
                        persisted in keeping its course to the south. The hawk, not ready for battle
                        till the prey should be over our heads, circled round and round the heron,
                        constantly striking, but carefully avoiding the coup de
                            grace. After the birds had flown several hundred yards away from
                        us, and were growing small in the distance, the heron, less hardy than its
                        knightly foe, showed signs of weariness and confusion. It changed its
                        course, still flying away from us. This did not suit the hawk, and it
                        continued circling about its faltering prey with a vicious swiftness well
                        calculated to inspire terror. Its movements became so rapid that it appeared
                        to describe a gray circle about the heron. These circles, with the heron as
                        the centre, constantly grew smaller, and after a time we could see that the
                        birds were slowly but surely approaching us.
                    When they were almost over our heads, the hawk rose with incredible swiftness
                        above its prey, and dropped like a bolt of gray lightning upon the heron.
                        Then followed a struggle that lasted while the birds fell three hundred
                        feet. When within fifty feet of the  ground
                        the hawk suddenly spread its wings and stood motionless in mid air, watching
                        its vanquished foe as it fell to a spot within ten yards of where we stood.
                        The movement of the falcon in descending to us can only be described as a
                        settling or gradual sinking, with outstretched, motionless wings. When Max
                        piped, the bird flew to its master's wrist and held down its beak for the
                        hood.
                    At the close of the battle, the gentlemen of our little audience clapped
                        their hands, and the ladies waved their kerchiefs. Max and I raised our caps
                        and reined our horses toward the main road. As we approached, the ladies and
                        one of the gentlemen resumed their journey toward Cambrai Gate, but the
                        others awaited us. When we reached them we found, to our surprise, Duke
                        Charles and my Lord d'Hymbercourt.
                    "Ah, it is our unknown knight who was so eager to fight Count Calli,"
                        exclaimed the duke.
                    "And still eager, Your Grace," answered Max. He uncovered upon approaching
                        the duke, but after a moment said, "By Your Grace's leave," and resumed his
                        cap. I, of course, remained uncovered. The duke showed surprise and
                        irritation as he anwered:—
                    "Since you do not see fit to tell us who you are, you should have the grace
                        to remain uncovered."
                    Max glanced quickly at the duke's face, and removed his cap, as he answered,
                        smiling:—
                    
                    "If it pleases Your Grace, I will remain uncovered even though I be the Pope
                        himself."
                    The duke saw the humor of the situation and replied:—
                    "One who owns so noble a hawk may remain covered in any man's presence. Never
                        have I seen so rare a battle in mid air. The soul of Roland himself must
                        inhabit the bird."
                    "Will Your Grace accept the hawk?" Max asked.
                    "Gladly," answered the duke, "though I hesitate to deprive you of a bird to
                        which you must be attached."
                    "Do not hesitate to give me that pleasure, my lord," answered Max. "The bird
                        is yours. His name is Cæsar. I will send him to the castle this
                        evening."
                    "Do not send him," suggested the duke. "Double your kindness by bringing him
                        to-morrow at the noon hour, after the morning audience. We must now follow
                        the princess. Adieu, messieurs."
                    The duke touched his cap, and we bent almost to our horses' manes.
                    Charles and Hymbercourt rode forward at a brisk canter, and Max and I
                        followed slowly. We entered Cambrai Gate three or four minutes after the
                        duke and the princess.
                    Max, eager to exhibit his hawk to Yolanda, proposed that we ride directly to
                        Castleman's house.
                    
                    While we were crossing the Cologne bridge we saw the duke's party enter the
                        castle by the Postern, and as we turned a corner toward Castleman's the
                        ladies looked in our direction and the gentlemen lifted their caps.
                    "Yolanda will be delighted when she sees my hawk," said Max.
                    I did not answer, but I thought that Yolanda would not see the bird that
                        evening, since she had just entered the castle with her father. I was in
                        great glee of spirits; I had at last trapped the young lady. If she were not
                        at Castleman's house there could be but one answer to my riddle. I did not
                        merely believe that I should not find her there; I knew I should not.
                    Max and I hitched our horses, and when Castleman's front door opened, lo!
                        there stood Yolanda. Never in all my life have I taken such a fall.
                    Somewhat out of breath, Yolanda exclaimed:—
                    "Ah, Sir Max and Sir Karl, I saw you coming and ran to give you welcome."
                    She was in an ecstasy of glee, strangely out of proportion to the event, and
                        there was a look of triumph in her eyes.
                    After we entered the house Yolanda's laughter continued, and if it ceased for
                        a moment it broke out again without a pretext. She was always pleased to see
                        Max, and never failed to show her pleasure in 
                        laughter more or less; but Max's presence could hardly account for her high
                        merriment and the satisfaction she seemed to feel, as if a great victory had
                        been gained. My sense of utter defeat had nothing but Yolanda's peculiar
                        conduct to comfort it.
                    To the arbor we went, Yolanda carrying the hawk on her shoulder and caressing
                        it with her cheek. In the garden, when our adventures were related, Yolanda,
                        all excitement, could not keep her chair, but danced delightedly like a
                        child and killed a score of imaginary herons.
                    She stroked the falcon's wings, and when I said, "My lord the duke has
                        graciously consented to accept the bird," she turned upon Max, exclaiming in
                        mock anger:—
                    "The duke has graciously consented to accept the bird! I should think it
                        required little grace to accept such a gift, though much to give it. Why
                        don't you give the bird to me, Sir Max, if you are eager to part with
                        it?"
                    "I would gladly have given it to you, Fräulein," answered Max, "had I
                        supposed you could use it on the duke's marshes. Only nobles practise the
                        royal sport of falconry."
                    Yolanda glanced quickly from Max to Castleman, turned her face to the bird
                        upon her shoulder, and said, with a touch of dignity:—
                    "We receive small favors from court once in a 
                        while, don't we, uncle? We are not dirt under the nobles' feet, if we are
                        plain burgher folk, are we, uncle?"
                    "Don't you know, Fräulein, what great pleasure I should have taken in giving
                        you the bird?" asked Max.
                    Yolanda bent her head to one side, placed her cheek against the falcon's wing
                        and pouted. Her pout was prettier even than her smile, and that is saying a
                        great deal.
                    After a few minutes Yolanda started to walk up the garden path and Max
                        followed her, leaving the Castlemans and me under the arbor. Yolanda, still
                        pouting, carried Cæsar on her shoulder, lavishing caresses on the bird that
                        excited Max's bitterest envy. Max spoke at intervals, but she answered only
                        to the bird. After many futile efforts to make her speak, he
                        said:—
                    "If you won't talk to me, I'll go back to the arbor."
                    She turned to the bird: "We are willing, Cæsar, aren't we — if he
                        can go."
                    Max laughed and started toward the arbor.
                    "Tell him to come back, Cæsar. Tell him to come back," exclaimed Yolanda.
                    "I take no orders from a bird," declared Max, with pretended seriousness.
                        Then she turned toward him and her face softened. She smiled and the dimples
                             came, though there was a nervous tremor
                        in the upturned corners of her mouth that belied her bantering air and
                        brought Max quickly to her side. I saw the pantomime, though I did not hear
                        the words; and I knew that neither Max nor any other man could with-stand
                        the quivering smile that played upon Yolanda's lips and the yearning
                        invitation that was in her eyes. If Max did not soon take himself away from
                        Burgundy and lead himself out of this temptation, I feared that in the end
                        he would cast aside his ancient heritage, rend his sacred family ties, and
                        forego everything he possessed in response to this mighty cry of nature,
                        offering the one chance in life for happiness.
                    "Now you will give me the bird — I know you will," exclaimed
                        Yolanda.
                    A remnant of the pout still hovered about her lips, doing battle with the
                        dimples of a smile.
                    "I have already given him to the duke," answered Max.
                    "Tell the duke the bird escaped, or died suddenly of an apoplexy. Tell him
                        anything you like, but give me the hawk," said Yolanda.
                    "Would you have me lie, Fräulein?" asked Max, amused at her persistency. "I
                        cannot do that, even for you. If you insist upon having the bird, I may go
                        to the duke and withdraw my gift."
                    "Would you do that for me, Sir Max?" she asked, eagerly.
                    
                    "Ay, and a great deal more, Fräulein. I tremble at the thought of what you
                        could make me do," he answered.
                    "In the fiend's name, let the duke have the bird," cried Yolanda. "He will
                        pout more than I if you don't. He is of a sullen nature."
                    "Do you know the duke?" asked Max, suspecting for the first time that Yolanda
                        might be more intimate about the court than he had supposed.
                    "I have heard much of him from those who know him," answered Yolanda.
                    So the duke got Cæsar.
                    The next morning Hymbercourt came to the inn to accompany us to the castle.
                        While we were sipping a mug of wine at a garden table, he
                        said:—
                    "I do not want to be officious in your affairs, but I am convinced that it
                        will be well for you to tell the duke who you are. If you do not see fit to
                        do so, it were wise in you to leave Burgundy at your earliest
                        convenience."
                    "I cannot leave within a month," said Max. I knew the cause of his detention,
                        and, ignoring his remark, turned to Hymbercourt:—
                    "Do you want to give the reasons for your advice?"
                    "Yes, I am quite willing," he answered, "but I would not have my words
                        repeated."
                    "Of that you may rest assured," I answered.
                    "If you do not tell the duke who you are," said  Hymbercourt, "he will soon learn it from our Italian friends, who have
                        the fiend's own energy in the pursuit of vengeance. They will discover who
                        you are, and you will lose the advantage of a frank avowal. Duke Charles
                        admires Sir Max, but our liege lord is capricious and can easily fancy that
                        others are plotting to injure him. I am sure that he will now receive the
                        Count of Hapsburg graciously if you tell him that Sir Max is that person.
                        What he would do were he to learn the fact highly colored by his Italians, I
                        cannot say. These mercenaries have a strange influence over His Grace, and
                        there is not a nobleman in Burgundy who does not fear them."
                    "How will the duke feel concerning the old proposition of marriage?" I
                        asked.
                    "That, I hope, will be of no moment now, since the duke is arranging for the
                        immediate celebration of this marriage with the Dauphin. I am given to
                        understand that His Grace, the Bishop of Cambrai, secretary to the duke, has
                        received orders to draught a letter to King Louis expressing our lord's
                        pleasure. King Louis is so eager for the marriage, which will once more
                        bring Burgundy to the French kingship, that Duke Charles deems it
                        sufficiently courteous to express his intentions to Louis, rather than to
                        request the king's compliance. The duke's contempt for the king of France is
                        so great that he causes the letter to be written in English, a language
                        which Charles loves  because of the English
                        blood in his veins, and which Louis, with good reason, hates."
                    "Has this letter been despatched?" I asked, concealing as well as I could my
                        deep concern.
                    Max heard Hymbercourt's statement without even a show of interest. Had he
                        suspected that Hymbercourt was speaking of Yolanda's marriage, there surely
                        would have been a demonstration.
                    "No," answered Hymbercourt, "the letter has not been sent, but the duke will
                        despatch it at once. It will probably be the chief business of this
                        morning's audience. The duke wants the marriage celebrated before he leaves
                        for Switzerland. That will be within three or four weeks. I am not informed
                        as to the details of the ceremony, but I suppose the princess will be taken
                        to St. Denis, and will there be married. The unfortunate princess,
                        doubtless, has not yet been told of her impending fate, though she may have
                        heard of it by rumor. There will be tears and trouble when she learns of it,
                        for she has a strong dash of her father's temper. But —" He
                        shrugged his shoulders as if to say that her tears would count for
                        nothing.
                    Hymbercourt's words took the heart out of me; and when he left us for a
                        moment, I urged Max to leave Burgundy at once.
                    "I must see Yolanda and ask her to release me from my promise before I go,"
                        he said.
                    "You are surely not so weak as to allow a burgher girl to hold you?" I
                        asked.
                    
                    "The girl does not hold me," he answered. "I was so weak as to give my
                        promise, and that holds me."
                    "She will give you your release if you demand it," I suggested.
                    "If she does, I will go with you to-morrow. It is time that we were out of
                        Burgundy. I will forego even my combat with Calli to get away. I should not
                        have given Yolanda my promise; but she is so persuasive, and I pity her, and
                        — and, oh! Karl, I — the trouble is, I love her, and it is
                        like death to part from her forever. That is my weakness."
                    The poor, suffering boy leaned forward on the table and buried his face in
                        his arms.
                    "That isn't your weakness, Max, it's your strength," I responded. "Few men
                        are so unfortunate as to escape it. God must pity those who do. It may be
                        well to tell the duke who you are. If he is displeased, we may leave
                        Burgundy at once. If he receives you graciously, we may remain and you may
                        fight this Calli. That is the one duty that holds you in Peronne."
                    My heart was hardened with years, and its love of just vengeance was stronger
                        than young Max could feel. Besides, he was possessed by a softer passion;
                        and though he felt it his pleasant duty to fight Calli, vengeance held
                        second place in his breast.
                    Hymbercourt returned, and we started for the 
                        castle accompanied by our squires; all riding in fine state.
                    We arrived at the great hall before the duke had arisen from the morning
                        audience, and waited unobserved in the back part of the chamber. Our Irish
                        squire, Michael, carried Cæsar, hooded and belled. He was held by a golden
                        chain that we had bought from a goldsmith, notwithstanding our purse was
                        growing dangerously light.
                    There was a great stir in the hall as we entered. The courtiers were buzzing
                        like a swarm of bees discussing a new queen. Evidently matters of importance
                        had been under consideration. Campo-Basso, my Lord de Vergy, seneschal of
                        Burgundy, and the Bishop of Cambrai, clerk to the duke, were standing on the
                        second step of the dais, each with hand resting on knee, and leaning eagerly
                        toward the duke. Charles and these councillors were speaking in low tones,
                        and the courtiers of less degree were taking advantage of the intermission
                        in public business to settle the great question among themselves. Each petty
                        courtier felt that he could offer a suggestion that would be of great value,
                        could he but gain the duke's ear.
                    After a little time, Charles saw Hymbercourt with us, and sent a page to
                        fetch him. Hymbercourt left us, and soon we saw him in whispered
                        conversation with the duke. Soon after Hymbercourt had gone to  the ducal throne, Calli, with two Italians,
                        stopped four paces from where we were standing. He gazed insolently at Max,
                        and said in Italian to his companions:—
                    "There is the loutish outlander, who boasted before the duke that he would
                        fight me. He is a big callow fellow, and it would be a shame to stick the
                        swine."
                    Max, who understood the Italian language sufficiently to grasp Calli's
                        meaning, flushed angrily, but I touched his arm and he turned his back upon
                        the fellow. Then I spoke in tones that Calli could not fail to
                        hear:—
                    "Never turn your face from a cowardly foe, Max. He will, if he can, stab you
                        in the back. Your revenge will come when you send his soul to hell."
                    Calli grasped his dagger hilt and muttered something about the duke's
                        presence. The incident determined us in the course Max should take. He
                        should tell the duke who he was, remain in Burgundy to kill this fellow
                        Calli, and to meet such other fortune as the Fates might have in store for
                        him.
                    Hymbercourt and the duke spoke together for the space of five minutes,
                        evidently discussing a parchment that Charles held in his hand. Then the
                        duke resumed his seat, and handed the parchment to the Bishop of Cambrai,
                        when all save His Reverence  stepped from the
                        dais to the floor. A herald commanded silence, and the bishop
                        spoke:—
                    "It is the will of our most gracious lord that I announce to the court the
                        impending marriage of Her Grace, the Princess, Mademoiselle de Burgundy, to
                        the princely Dauphin of France, son to our lord's royal ally, King Louis.
                        His Grace of Burgundy hopes within three weeks to open his campaign against
                        the Swiss, and it is his intention to cause the marriage ceremony to take
                        place before his departure. When the details have been arranged, they will
                        be announced to the court."
                    The bishop had barely stopped speaking when the shutter in the chancel of the
                        ladies' gallery above the throne opened, and a voice rang through the vast
                        audience hall, like the tones of an alarm bell:—
                    "Make one more announcement, please, my Lord Bishop. Say that if this
                        wondrous ceremony is to come off within three weeks, the Dauphin of France
                        must be content with a dead bride."
                    No one saw the face of the speaker. The shutter closed, and a deep silence
                        fell upon the room. The duke sprang angrily to his feet; his face was like a
                        thunder-cloud. He looked toward the ladies' gallery, and stood for a moment
                        like the incarnation of wrath. A puzzled expression followed the glare of
                        anger; and within a moment he laughed, and waved his hands to the heralds,
                        directing them to cry the rising. The 
                        audience was dismissed, and the courtiers left the hall, laughing in
                        imitation of their lord and master.
                    Nothing could be more indicative of cruelty than the laughter that followed
                        the passionate protest of the unhappy princess. To the duke, and of course
                        to his courtiers, the girl's suffering and the fate that was in store for
                        her were mere matters of mirth. They laughed at her pain as savages laugh at
                        the agonies of a tortured victim.
                    I was so startled by the cry of the princess that for a time I could not
                        think coherently. My first clear thought was of Yolanda. If she were the
                        princess, this sacrifice that is practised without a protest throughout the
                        world had come home to me, for Yolanda had nestled in my heart. That she,
                        the gentle, the tender, the passionate, the sensitive, should be the victim
                        of this legalized crime; that she, innocent of all fault, save that she had
                        been born a girl, should be condemned to misery because the laws of chivalry
                        and the laws of God, distorted by men to suit their purposes, declared her
                        to be the chattel of her father, moved me as I was never moved before. My
                        sympathy for this rare, sweet girl, so capable of joy, so susceptible to
                        pain, almost brought tears to my eyes; for I could not help thinking that
                        she was the suffering princess.
                    When the courtiers had left the great hall Hymbercourt, Max, and I approached
                        the duke. Hymbercourt  and I made obeisance on
                        bended knee, but Max saluted the duke with a low bow. After the duke had
                        spoken, Max said:—
                    "I hope Your Grace has not forgotten your promise to honor me by accepting
                        the falcon you admired yesterday."
                    "I have not, my unknown friend," answered the duke.
                    Max took the bird from Michael and offered it to Charles, who accepted the
                        gift graciously. I looked toward Hymbercourt and he, understanding my
                        unspoken word, again bent his knee before the duke:—
                    "My gracious lord, it is the desire of this young knight that he be presented
                        to you in due form under his own name and title, though he would humbly ask
                        that he be permitted to retain the name by which he is known in Burgundy.
                        His reasons for so doing are good, though they would not interest Your
                        Grace. Have I my lord's permission to present him?"
                    "In God's name, yes!" exclaimed the duke, stirred by some irritation, but
                        spurred by curiosity.
                    "My lord," said Hymbercourt, speaking to the duke and extending his hand
                        toward Max, "it is my great honor to present to Your Grace his highness,
                        Maximilian, Count of Hapsburg."
                    "By the just God, my lord, you certainly have given us a surprise," said the
                        duke, stepping back and making no offer of his hand to Max. He passed  the falcon to a page, and continued, "What
                        business have these men at my court?"
                    "None, Your Grace, absolutely none," answered Max, standing proudly before
                        the duke and stead-fastly meeting his gaze. "It was my desire to see the
                        world and to learn something of its people before I undertook to govern my
                        own. My country is not rich and fat like this great land of Burgundy. I have
                        neither the means nor the inclination to travel in state; so my dear friend
                        and instructor, Sir Karl de Pitti, undertook to guide me and teach me in
                        this journey to the outer world. I would rather have missed seeing all other
                        countries than Burgundy, and of all the princes of the world Your Grace was
                        and is to me the most interesting. Your hand is the strongest, your courage
                        the bravest, and your land the richest in Europe. We heard at Metz that you
                        were here in Peronne; and now, my lord, you understand what business I have
                        in Burgundy."
                    I had never given the boy credit for so much adroitness. What the duke's
                        intentions were, immediately after Hymbercourt presented Max, I could not
                        have told, but his words sounded ominous, and the expression of his face was
                        anything but pleasant. Max, though not quarrelsome, was not given to the
                        soft answer that turneth away wrath; but on this occasion discretion came to
                        his rescue, and he made the soft answer with a dignity and boldness that  won Charles's respect. The duke's face
                        softened into a half-smile,—if anything so hard as his face can be
                        said to soften, — and he offered his hand to Max. He withdrew it
                        almost instantly from Max's grasp, and said:—
                    "Are you sure my armament against Switzerland is no part of the reason for
                        your presence in Burgundy?" Like all highly pugnacious men, he was
                        suspicious. "I have been told your father is a friend to the Swiss."
                    "Does Your Grace mean to ask if I am here in the capacity of a spy, as Calli
                        has charged?" asked Max, lifting his head and looking boldly into the duke's
                        face.
                    "I do not know," said the duke, hesitatingly. "I do not say you are. I do not
                        think you are, but —"
                    "I am glad Your Grace does not think we are spies, and am pleased to believe
                        that you would not put so great an insult upon us," answered Max, "else we
                        should ask permission to leave Burgundy at once. I am sure my lord knows we
                        are not spies. If Your Lordship had a son, would you send him forth as a spy
                        for the sake of Burgundy? Much less would you do it for another land. Your
                        Grace is misinformed. My father is not a friend to the Swiss; neither does
                        he hate them, though perhaps he has better cause to do so than has Your
                        Grace. Your quarrel with the Swiss is over a few  cart-loads of sheepskins. These same Swiss took from my father
                        our ancient homestead, the old Castle of Hapsburg, and the surrounding
                        territory of Aargau."
                    "I have heard of the spoliation, and have often wondered at your father's
                        meek submission," said the duke, with an almost imperceptible sneer. Like
                        Richard the Lion-hearted, of England, butchery was this duke's trade, and he
                        despised a man who did not practise it on all possible occasions. A pretext
                        for a quarrel is balm to the soul of a hero.
                    "The mountains of Switzerland, my lord, are the graveyard of foreign
                        soldiers," Max replied. "Old Hapsburg Castle is a mere hawks' crag, as its
                        name implies, and the half-score of mountain peaks my father lost with it
                        are not worth the life of his humblest subject. He loves his people, and
                        would not shed their blood to soothe his wounded pride. The man who makes
                        war should fight in the front rank."
                    "There is where I fight, young sir," returned Charles.
                    "The world knows that fact, my lord," responded Max. "My father cannot fight
                        at the head of his army, therefore, he makes war only in defence of his
                        people's hearths. It is possible that after consulting with my friend, Sir
                        Karl, I may ask the honor of serving with Your Grace against these  Swiss who despoiled my house. Is Your Grace
                        now satisfied that we are not Swiss spies? And are we welcome to sojourn for
                        a time in Peronne? Or shall we leave Burgundy and return to my father in
                        Styria, to tell him that you turned a guest and a friend from your
                        door?"
                    "You are very welcome, Sir Count, and you, Sir Karl," answered the duke,
                        giving his right hand to Max and familiarly offering me his left. This hard
                        duke had been beaten into a gracious mood by Max's adroit mixture of
                        flattery and boldness.
                    A soft answer may turn away wrath, but it may also involve the disagreeable
                        necessity of turning the other cheek. If it be not tempered by spirit, it is
                        apt to arouse contempt. The duke remained silent for the space of a minute
                        or two. He was evidently struggling to suppress a good impulse. Then he
                        turned to me and said, laughingly:—
                    "By my soul, Sir Karl, you have brought us a Roland and a Demosthenes in one.
                        Where learned you your oratory, Sir Count?"
                    "From a just cause, my lord," quickly retorted Max.
                    "I fear I have had the worst of this encounter, Hymbercourt," said the duke,
                        smiling, "and I see nothing left for me but apology."
                    "I sincerely hope Your Grace will not embarrass us by apologizing," said
                        Max.
                    
                    Charles hesitated, gave a short laugh, and apologized by placing his hand on
                        Max's shoulder.
                    "Let us go into the little parley room," he said. "Hymbercourt, lead the way
                        with Sir Max; Sir Karl and I will follow presently."
                    Max and Hymbercourt passed out at a small door near the throne, and the duke
                        turned to me:—
                    "I like the boy's modest boldness, and I hope that I may induce him and you
                        to accompany me against the Swiss. I would not accept his offer made on the
                        spur of the moment, but if, on talking it over with him, you make up your
                        minds to come with me, I will make it well worth your while. This war will
                        be but a May-day outing. We'll speak on the subject again. Meantime, I
                        understand that you and Sir Max wish to remain incognito at Peronne?"
                    "We do, Your Grace," I responded. "I fear it will be impossible to accept the
                        honor you have offered, but, as you have graciously said, we will, if you
                        wish, speak of it again."
                    "I am content," said the duke. "Let us follow Hymbercourt."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV
                    SIR KARL MEETS THE PRINCESS
                    
                        THE duke and I passed through the door by which Max and
                        Hymbercourt had left the hall, and entered a narrow passageway eight or ten
                        yards long, having two doors at the farther end. The door to the right, I
                        soon learned, led to the little parley room where Max and Hymbercourt had
                        gone. The door to the left opened into a staircase that led to the
                        apartments of the duchess. A narrow flight of stone steps that led from the
                        ladies' gallery opened into the passage, and, just as the duke entered in
                        advance of me, two ladies emerged from the stairs. They did not see me in
                        the shadow, and supposed that the duke was alone. The taller, who I soon
                        learned was the duchess, hastened down the passage and through the door
                        leading to her apartments. The smaller I at once recognized. She was
                        Yolanda.
                    "Father, you cannot mean to send me into France," she cried, trying to detain
                        the duke. "Kill me, father, if you will, but do not send me to that hated
                        land. I shall not survive this marriage a fortnight, and if I die, Burgundy
                        will go to our cousin of Bourbon."
                    
                    "Don't hinder me, daughter," returned the duke, impatiently. "Don't you see
                        we are not alone?"
                    Yolanda turned in surprise toward me, and the duke said:—
                    "Go by the right door, Sir Karl. I will be with you at once. I wish to speak
                        with the duchess."
                    He hurriedly followed his wife and left me alone with Yolanda.
                    "Fräulein, my intrusion was unintentional," I stammered. "I followed the duke
                        at his request."
                    "Fräulein!" exclaimed the girl, lifting her head and looking a very queen in
                        miniature. "Fräulein! Do you know, sir, to whom you speak?"
                    "I beg your pardon, most gracious princess," I replied. "Did you not command
                        me to address you as Fräulein or Yolanda?"
                    "My name, sir, is not Yolanda. You have made a sad mistake," said the
                        princess, drawing herself up to her full height. Then I thought of Yolanda's
                        words when she told me that she resembled the princess as one pea resembles
                        another.
                    The girl trembled, and even in the dim light I could see the gleam of anger
                        in her eyes. I was endeavoring to frame a suitable apology when she spoke
                        again:—
                    "Fräulein! Yolanda! Sir, your courtesy is scant to give me these names. I do
                        not know you, and — did I not tell you that if you made this
                        mistake with  the princess you would not so
                        easily correct it? That I — you — Blessed Virgin! I have
                        betrayed myself. I knew I should. I knew I could not carry it out."
                    She covered her face with her hands and began to weep, speaking while she
                        sobbed:—
                    "My troubles are more than I can bear."
                    I wished to reassure her at once:—
                    "Most Gracious Princess — Yolanda — your secret is safe
                        with me. You are as dear to me as if you were my child. You have nestled in
                        my heart and filled it as completely as one human being can fill the heart
                        of another. I would gladly give my poor old life to make you happy. Now if
                        you can make use of me, I am at your service."
                    "You will not tell Sir Max?" she sobbed.
                    She was no longer a princess. She was the child Yolanda.
                    "As I hope for salvation, no, I will not tell Sir Max," I responded.
                    "Sometime I will give you my reasons," she said.
                    "I wish none," I replied.
                    After a short pause, she went on, still weeping gently:—
                    "If I must go to France, Sir Karl, you may come there to be my Lord
                        Chamberlain. Perhaps Max should not come, since I shall be the wife of
                        another, and — and there would surely be trouble. Max should not
                        come."
                    
                    She stepped quickly to my side. Her hand fell, and she grasped mine for an
                        instant under the folds of her cloak; then she ran from the passage, and I
                        went to the room where Max and Hymbercourt were waiting.
                    After a few moments the duke joined us. Wine was served, but Charles did not
                        drink. On account of the excessive natural heat of his blood he drank
                        nothing but water. His Grace was restless; and, although there was no lack
                        of courtesy, I fancied he did not wish us to remain. So after our cups were
                        emptied I asked permission to depart. The duke acquiesced by rising, and
                        said, turning to Max:—
                    "May we not try our new hawk together this afternoon?"
                    "With pleasure, Your Grace," responded Max.
                    "Then we'll meet at Cambrai Gate near the hour of two," said the duke.
                    "I thank Your Grace," said Max, bowing.
                    On our way back to the inn, I told Max of my meeting with the princess, and
                        remarked upon her resemblance to Yolanda.
                    "You imagined the resemblance, Karl. There can be but one Yolanda in the
                        world," said Max. "Her Highness, perhaps, is of Yolanda's complexion and
                        stature, — so Yolanda has told me, — and your imagination
                        has furnished the rest."
                    "Perhaps that is true," said I, fearing that I had already spoken too
                        freely.
                    
                    So my great riddle was at last solved! The Fates had answered when I "gave it
                        up." I was so athrill with the sweet assurance that Yolanda was the princess
                        that I feared my secret would leap from my eyes or spring unbidden from my
                        lips.
                    I cast about in my mind for Yolanda's reasons in wishing to remain Yolanda to
                        Max, and I could find none save the desire to win his heart as a burgher
                        girl. That, indeed, would be a triumph. She knew that every marriageable
                        prince in Europe coveted her wealth and her estates. The most natural desire
                        that she or any girl could have would be to find a worthy man who would seek
                        her for her own sake. As Yolanda, she offered no inducement save herself.
                        The girl was playing a daring game, and a wise one.
                    True, there appeared to be no possibility that she could ever have Max for
                        her husband, even should she win his heart as Yolanda. In view of the
                        impending and apparently unavoidable French marriage, the future held no
                        hope. But when her day of wretchedness should come, she would, through all
                        her life, take comfort from the sweetest joy a woman can know —
                        that the man she loved loved her because she was her own fair self, and for
                        no other reason. There would, of course, be the sorrow of regret, but that
                        is passive, while the joy of memory is ever active.
                    When Max and I had departed, the duke turned to Hymbercourt and
                        said:—
                    
                    "The bishop's letter is not sufficiently direct. It is my desire to inform
                        King Louis that this marriage shall take place at once — now! Now! It will effectually keep Louis from allying with
                        Bourbon and Lorraine, or some other prince, while I am away from home. They
                        all hate me, but not one of the cowards would say 'Booh!' unless the others
                        were back of him. A word from Louis would kindle rebellion in Liege and
                        Ghent. This war with Switzerland is what Louis has waited for; and when I
                        march to the south, he will march into Burgundy from the west unless he has
                        a counter motive."
                    "That is but too true, my lord," said Hymbercourt.
                    "But if my daughter marries the Dauphin, Louis will look upon Burgundy as the
                        property of the French kingship in the end, and the marriage will frighten
                        Bourbon and Lorraine to our feet once more. This hypocrite, Louis, has
                        concocted a fine scheme to absorb Burgundy into his realm by this marriage
                        with my daughter. But I'll disappoint his greed. I'll whisper a secret in
                        your ear, Hymbercourt, — a secret to be told to no one else. I'll
                        execute this treaty of marriage now, and will use my crafty foe for my own
                        purposes so long as I need him; but when I return from Switzerland, I will
                        divorce my present duchess and take a fruitful wife who will bear me a son
                        to inherit  Burgundy; then King Louis may keep
                        the girl for his pains."
                    The duke laughed, and seemed to feel that he was perpetrating a great joke on
                        his rival.
                    "But your brother-in-law, Edward of England, may object to haying his sister
                        divorced," suggested Hymbercourt.
                    "In that case we'll take a page from King Louis' book," answered Charles.
                        "We'll use gold, Hymbercourt, gold! I shall not, however, like Louis, buy
                        Edward's ministers! They are too expensive. I'll put none of my gold in
                        Hastings's sleeve. I'll pension Shore's wife, and Edward will not trouble
                        himself about his sister. He prefers other men's sisters. Do not fear,
                        Hymbercourt; the time has come to meet Louis' craft with craft."
                    "And Your Grace's unhappy daughter is to be the shuttlecock, my lord?"
                        suggested Hymbercourt.
                    "She will serve her purpose in the weal of Burgundy, as I do. I give my life
                        to Burgundy. Why should not this daughter of mine give a few tears? But her
                        tears are unreasonable. Why should she object to this marriage? Even though
                        God should hereafter give me a son, who should cut the princess out of
                        Burgundy, will she not be queen of France? What more would the perverse girl
                        have? By God, Hymbercourt, it makes my blood boil to hear you, a man of
                        sound reason, talk like a fool. I hear the same  maudlin protest from the duchess. She, too, is under the spell of this
                        girl, and mourns over her trumped-up grief like a parish priest at a
                        bishop's funeral."
                    "But, my lord, consider the creature your daughter is to marry," said
                        Hymbercourt. "He is but a child, less than fourteen years of age, and is
                        weak in mind and body. Surely, it is a wretched fate for your daughter."
                    "I tell you the girl is perverse," interrupted the duke. "She would raise a
                        storm were the Dauphin a paragon of manliness. He is a poor, mean wretch,
                        whom she may easily rule. His weakness will be her advantage. She is strong
                        enough, God knows, and wilful enough to face down the devil himself. If
                        there is a perverse wench on all the earth, who will always have her own way
                        by hook or by crook, it is this troublesome daughter of mine. She has the
                        duchess wound around her finger. I could not live with them at Ghent, and
                        sent them here for the sake of peace. When she is queen of France she will
                        also be king of that realm — and in God's name what more could the
                        girl ask?"
                    "But, my lord, let me beg you to consider well this step before you take it.
                        I am sure evil will come of it," pleaded Hymbercourt.
                    "I have considered," answered the duke. "Let me hear no more of this rubbish.
                        Two women dinning it into my ears morning, noon, and night are quite  enough for my peace of mind. I hear
                        constantly, 'Dear father, don't kill me. Spare your daughter,' and 'Dear my
                        lord, I beg you not to sacrifice the princess, whom I so love.' God's mercy!
                        I say I am tired of it! This marriage shall take place at once! Now, now,
                        now, do you hear, Hymbercourt? Tell the bishop to write this letter in
                        English. We will make the draught as bitter as possible for Louis. He hates
                        the sight of an English word, and small wonder. Direct the bishop to make
                        the letter short and to the point. Tell him to say the marriage shall take
                        place now. Have him use the word now. Do
                        you understand?"
                    "Yes, my lord," answered Hymbercourt.
                    "Order him to fetch the missive immediately to the apartments of the duchess.
                        It shall be read, signed, and despatched in the presence of my daughter and
                        my wife, so that they may know what they have to expect. I'll see that I'm
                        bothered no more with their tears and their senseless importunities."
                    "I'll carry out your instructions," said Hymbercourt, bowing and taking his
                        leave.
                    The duke went to his wife's parlor and fell moodily into a chair. The duchess
                        was sitting on a divan, and the princess was weeping in her arms. After a
                        long silence, broken only by Mary's half-smothered sobs, the duke turned
                        sharply upon the women:—
                    "For the love of God, cease your miserable whimpering,"  growled his lordship. "Is not my life full of vexations
                        without this deluge of tears at home? A whimpering woman will do more to
                        wear out the life of a man than a score of battling enemies. Silence, I say;
                        silence, you fools!"
                    Mary and the duchess were now unable to control themselves. Charles rose
                        angrily and, with his clenched hand raised for a blow, strode across the
                        room to the unhappy women. Clinging to each other, the princess and Duchess
                        Margaret crouched low on the divan. Then this great hero, whom the world
                        worships and calls "The Bold," bent over the trembling women and upbraided
                        them in language that I will not write.
                    "God curse me if I will have my life made miserable by a pair of fools,"
                        cried the duke. "I am wretched enough without this useless annoyance.
                        Enemies abroad and disobedience in my own family will drive me mad!"
                    The women slipped from the divan to the floor at the duke's feet, and clung
                        to each other. The duchess covered the princess to protect her from the
                        duke's blow, and, alas! took it herself. Charles stepped back, intending to
                        kick his daughter, but the duchess again threw herself on Yolanda and again
                        received the blow. By that time the duke's fury was beyond all measure, and
                        he stooped to drag his wife from Yolanda that he might vent his wrath upon
                        the sobbing  girl. The duchess, who was a
                        young, strong woman, sprang to her feet and placed herself between Yolanda,
                        lying on the floor, and the infuriated duke.
                    "You shall not touch the child, my lord!" cried the duchess. "Though she is
                        your child, you shall not touch her if I can help it. Twice, my lord, you
                        have almost killed your daughter in your anger, and I have sworn to prevent
                        a recurrence of your brutality or to die in my attempt to save her."
                    She snatched a dagger from her bosom, and spoke calmly: "Now come, my lord;
                        but when you do so, draw your dagger, for, by the Virgin, I will kill you if
                        you do not kill me, before you shall touch that girl. Before you kill me, my
                        lord, remember that my brother of England will tear you limb from limb for
                        the crime, and that King Louis will gladly help him in the task. Come, my
                        husband! Come, my brave lord! I am but a weak woman. You may easily kill me,
                        and I will welcome death rather than life with you. When I am out of the
                        way, you may work your will on your daughter. Because I am your wife, my
                        brother has twice saved you from King Louis. You owe your domain and your
                        life to me. I should sell my life at a glorious price if my death purchased
                        your ruin. Come, my lord!"
                    The duke paused with his hand on his dagger; 
                        
                         but he knew that his wife's words were true,
                        and he realized that his ruin would follow quickly on the heels of her
                        death.
                    "You complain that the world and your own family are against you, my lord,"
                        said the duchess. "It is because you are a cruel tyrant abroad and at home.
                        It is because you are against the world and against those whom you should
                        protect and keep safe from evil. The fault is with you, Charles of Burgundy.
                        You have spoken the truth. The world hates you, and this girl — the
                        tenderest, most loving heart on earth — dreads you as her most
                        relentless enemy. If I were in your place, my lord, I would fall upon my
                        sword."
                    Beaten by his wife's just fury, this great war hero walked back to his chair,
                        and the duchess tenderly lifted Mary to the divan.
                    "He will not strike you, child," said Margaret. Then she fell to kissing
                        Yolanda passionately, and tears came to her relief.
                    Poor Yolanda buried her face in her mother's breast and tried to smother her
                        sobs. Charles sat mumbling blasphemous oaths. At the expiration of half an
                        hour, a page announced the Bishop of Cambrai and other gentlemen. The duke
                        signified that they were to be admitted; and when the bishop entered the
                        room, Charles, who was smarting from his late defeat, spoke
                        angrily:—
                    
                    "By the good God, my Lord Bishop, you are slow! Does it require an hour to
                        write a missive of ten lines? If you are as slow in saving souls as in
                        writing letters, the world will go to hell before you can say a mass."
                    "The wording was difficult, Your Grace," replied the bishop obsequiously.
                        "The Lord d'Hymbercourt said Your Grace wished the missive to be written in
                        English, which language my scrivener knows but imperfectly. After it was
                        written I received Your Lordship's instructions to use the word 'now,' so I
                        caused the letter to be rewritten that I might comply with your wishes."
                    "Now" is a small word, but in this instance it was a great one for Yolanda,
                        as you shall soon learn.
                    "Cease explaining, my Lord Bishop, and read me the missive," said the duke,
                        sullenly.
                    The bishop unfolded the missive, which was in a pouch ready for sealing.
                        Yolanda stopped sobbing that she might hear the document that touched so
                        closely on her fate. Her tear-stained face, with its childlike pathos, but
                        served to increase her father's anger.
                    "Read, my Lord Bishop! Body of me, why stand you there like a wooden
                        quintain?" exclaimed the duke. "By all the gods, you are slow! Read, I
                        say!"
                    "With pleasure, my lord," answered the bishop.
                    
                    "To His Majesty, King Louis of France, Charles, Duke of Burgundy and Count of
                        Charolois, sends this Greeting:—
                    "His Grace of Burgundy would recommend himself to His Majesty of France, and
                        would beg to inform the most puissant King Louis that the said Charles, Duke
                        of Burgundy, will march at the head of a Burgundian army within three weeks
                        from the date of these presents, against the Swiss cantons, with intent to
                        punish the said Swiss for certain depredations. Therefore, the said Charles,
                        Duke of Burgundy and Count of Charolois, begs that His Majesty of France
                        will now move toward the immediate consummation of the treaty existing
                        between Burgundy and France, looking to the marriage of the Princess Mary,
                        Mademoiselle de Burgundy, with the princely Dauphin, son to King Louis; and
                        to these presents said Charles, Duke of Burgundy, requests the honor of an
                        early reply.
                    "We recommend Your Majesty to the protection of God, the Blessed Virgin, and
                        the Saints."
                    "Words, words, my Lord Bishop," said Charles. "Why waste them on a graceless
                        hypocrite?"
                    "I thought only to be courteous," returned the bishop.
                    "Why should we show King Louis courtesy?" asked the duke. "Is it because we
                        give him our daughter to be the wife of his bandy-shanked, half-witted son?
                        There is small need for courtesy, my Lord Bishop. We could not insult this
                        King Louis, should we try, while he sees an advantage to be gained. Give me
                        the letter, and I will sign it, though I despise your whimpering courtesy,
                        as you call it."
                    Charles took the letter, and, going to a table near a window, drew up a
                        chair.
                    
                    "Give me a quill," he said, addressing the bishop. "Did you not bring one, my
                        lord?"
                    "Your Grace — Your Grace," began the bishop, apologetically.
                    "Do you think I am a snivelling scrivener, carrying quill and ink-well in my
                        gown?" asked the duke. "Go to your parlor and fetch ink and quill," said
                        Charles, pointing with the folded missive toward Yolanda.
                    "A page will fetch the quill and ink, my lord," suggested the duchess.
                    "Go!" cried the duke, turning angrily on the princess. Yolanda left the room,
                        weeping, and hastened up the long flight of steps to her parlor. It was the
                        refinement of cruelty in Charles to send Yolanda for the quill with which he
                        was to sign the instrument of her doom.
                    Still weeping, Yolanda hurried back with the writing materials, but before
                        entering the room she stopped at the door to dry her tears and stay her
                        sobs. When she entered, she said:—
                    "There is the quill, father, and there is the ink."
                    She placed them before the duke and stood trembling with one hand on the
                        table. After a moment she spoke in a voice little above a
                        whisper:—
                    "You will accomplish nothing, my lord, my father, by sending the letter. I
                        shall die before this marriage can take place. I am willing to obey you,
                        but, father, I shall die. Ah, father, pity me."
                    
                    She fell upon her knees before the duke and tried to put her hands about his
                        shoulders. He repulsed her, and, taking up the quill, signed the letter.
                        After he had affixed his signature and had sealed the missive with his
                        private seal, he folded the parchment and handed it to the bishop,
                        saying:—
                    "Seal the pouch, my lord, and send Byron, the herald, here to receive our
                        personal instructions."
                    "The herald has not yet returned from Cambrai, my lord," said De Vergy, who
                        stood near by. "He is expected between the hours of five and six this
                        evening."
                    "Leave the letter, my lord," said Charles, "and send Byron to me when he
                        arrives. I shall be here at six o'clock to give him full instructions."
                    The letter was deposited in a small iron box on the table, and the duke left
                        the room, followed closely by the lords and pages.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV
                    THE CROSSING OF A "T"
                    
                        YOLANDA and her stepmother remained on the divan in
                        silence for fully an hour after the duke had left. The duchess was first to
                        speak.
                    "Be resigned, sweet one, to your fate. It is one common to women. It was my
                        hard fate to be compelled to marry your father. It was your mother's, poor
                        woman, and it killed her. God wills our slavery, and we must submit. We but
                        make our fate harder by fighting against it."
                    Yolanda answered with convulsive sobs, but after a while she grew more
                        calm.
                    "Is there nothing I can do to save myself?" she asked.
                    "No, sweet one," answered the duchess.
                    "Has God put a curse upon women, mother?" asked Yolanda.
                    "Alas! I fear He has," answered Margaret. "The Holy Church teaches us that He
                        punishes us for the sin of our mother Eve, but though He punishes us, He
                        loves us, and we are His children. He knows what is best for us here and
                        hereafter."
                    
                    "He certainly is looking to my future good, if at all,"
                        sighed Yolanda. "But I do believe in God's goodness, mother, and I am sure
                        He will save me. Holy Virgin! how helpless a woman is." She began to weep
                        afresh, and the duchess tried to soothe her.
                    "I believe I will pray to the Virgin. She may help us," said the girl, in a
                        voice that was plaintively childlike.
                    "It is a pious thought, Mary," answered the duchess.
                    Yolanda slipped from the divan to the floor, and, kneeling, buried her face
                        in her mother's lap. She prayed aloud:—
                    "Blessed Virgin, Thou seest my dire need. Help me. My prayer is short, but
                        Thou, Blessed Lady, knowest how fervent it is." The duchess crossed herself,
                        bowed her head, and murmured a fervent "Amen."
                    Yolanda rose from her prayer with a brighter face, and exclaimed almost
                        joyfully:—
                    "It was impious in me to doubt God's love, mother. I do believe I heard the
                        Blessed Virgin say, 'Help is at hand.' At least, I felt her words,
                        mother."
                    Yolanda moved about the room aimlessly for several minutes and by chance
                        stopped at the table. She started to take up the quill and ink-well to carry
                        them back to her parlor, which was in Darius 
                        (Darius was the name of the tower that rose from the castle battlements
                        immediately above Castleman's House under the Wall), and her eyes rested on
                        the small iron box in which the letter to King Louis had been deposited. An
                        unconscious motive, perhaps it was childish curiosity, prompted her to
                        examine the missive. She took the pouch from the box and found it unsealed.
                        She listlessly drew out the missive and began to read, when suddenly her
                        face grew radiant with joy. She ran excitedly to her mother, who was sitting
                        on the divan, and exclaimed:—
                    "Oh! mother, the sweet Blessed Virgin has sent help!"
                    "In what manner, child?" asked the duchess, fondling Yolanda's hair while the
                        girl knelt beside her.
                    "Here, mother, here! Here is help; here in this very letter that was intended
                        to be my undoing. I cannot wait to thank the Holy Mother." She crossed
                        herself and buried her face in her mother's lap while she thanked the
                        Virgin.
                    "What is it, Mary, and where is the help?" asked Margaret, fearing the girl's
                        mind had been touched by her troubles.
                    "Listen!" cried Yolanda.
                    Her excitement was so great that she could hardly see the words the bishop's
                        scrivener had written.
                    
                    "Listen, listen! Father in this letter first tells the king that he
                        — that is, father, you understand — is going to war with
                        Lorraine — no, with Bourbon. I am wrong again. Father is so
                        constantly warring with some one that I cannot keep track of his enemies
                        — against the Swiss. See, mother, it is the Swiss. He says he will
                        go — will start — will begin the war — no, I am
                        wrong again. I can hardly see the words. He says he will march at the head
                        of a Burgundian army — poor soldiers, I pity them — within
                        three weeks. Ah, how short that time seemed when I heard the letter read an
                        hour ago. How long it is now! I wish he would march to-morrow. Three long
                        weeks!"
                    "But, my dear, how will that help you?" asked the duchess. "In what manner
                        will—"
                    "Do not interrupt me, mother, but hear what follows. Father says he will
                        march in three weeks and 'begs that His Majesty of France will now move toward the immediate consummation of the treaty existing
                        between Burgundy and France looking to the marriage of the Princess,
                        Mademoiselle de Burgundy, with the princely Dauphin, son to King Louis.' In
                        that word 'now,' mother, lies my help."
                    "In what manner does help lie in the word 'now,' child?" asked the
                        duchess.
                    "In this, mother. 'Now' is a little word of three letters, n-o-v. See,
                        mother, the letter 'v' is not perfectly  made.
                        We will extend the first prong upward, cross it and make 't' of it, using
                        the second prong as a flourish. Then the letter will read, 'begs that His
                        Majesty of France will not move toward the immediate
                        consummation of the treaty.' What could be more natural than that my father
                        should wish nothing of importance to occur until after this war with
                        Switzerland is over? The French king, of course, will answer that he will
                        not move in the matter, and his letter will throw father into a delightful
                        frenzy of rage. It may even induce him to declare war against France, and to
                        break off the treaty of marriage when he returns from Switzerland. He has
                        often done battle for a lesser cause. It will at least prevent the marriage
                        for the present. It may prevent it forever."
                    "Surely that cannot be; King Louis will immediately explain the mistake to
                        your father," suggested Margaret.
                    "But father, you know, will not listen to an explanation if he fears it may
                        avert blows," returned Yolanda; "and he will be sure not to believe King
                        Louis whose every word he doubts. I shall enjoy King Louis' efforts to
                        explain. 'Hypocrite,' 'liar,' 'coward,' 'villain,' will be among father's
                        most endearing terms when speaking of His Majesty. If by chance the error of
                        'not' for 'now' be discovered, the Bishop of Cambrai and father will swear
                        it is  King Louis who has committed the
                        forgery. But should the worst come, our 't' will have answered its purpose,
                        at least for the present. The bishop may suffer, but I care not. He did his
                        part in bringing about this marriage treaty, bribed, doubtless, by King
                        Louis' gold. In any case, we have no reason to constitute ourselves the
                        bishop's guardians. We have all we can do to care for ourselves —
                        and more."
                    She sprang to her feet and danced about the room, ardently kissing the letter
                        she had so recently dreaded.
                    "Mary, you frighten me," said the duchess. "If we should be discovered in
                        changing this letter, I do believe your father would kill us. I do not know
                        that it would be right to make the alteration. It would be forgery, and
                        that, you know, is a crime punishable by death."
                    "We shall not be discovered," said Mary. "You must have no
                        part in this transaction, mother. Father would not kill me; I am too
                        valuable as a chattel of trade. With my poor little self he can buy the
                        good-will of kings and princes. I am more potent than all his gold. This
                        alteration can be no sin; it is self-defence. Think how small it is, mother.
                        It is only a matter of the crossing of a 't.' But I care not how great the
                        crime may be; I believe, mother, I would commit murder to save myself from
                        the fate father wishes to put upon me."
                    
                    "You frighten me, child," said Margaret. "I tremble in terror at what you
                        propose to do."
                    "I, too, am trembling, mother," sighed Yolanda, "but you must now leave the
                        room. You must know nothing of this great crime."
                    The girl laughed nervously and tried to push her mother from the room.
                    "No, I will remain," said the duchess. "I almost believe that you are right,
                        and that the Virgin has prompted you to do this to save yourself."
                    "I know she has," answered Yolanda, crossing herself. "Now leave me. I must
                        waste no more time."
                    "I will remain with you, Mary," said Margaret, "and I will myself make the
                        alteration. Then I'll take all the blame in case we are discovered."
                    Margaret rose, walked over to the table, and took up the quill. She trembled
                        so violently that she could not control her hand.
                    "No, mother, you shall not touch it," cried Yolanda, snatching the parchment
                        from the countess and holding it behind her. "If I would let you, you could
                        not make the alteration; see, your hand trembles! You would blot the
                        parchment and spoil all this fine plan of mine. Give me the quill, mother!
                        Give me the quill!"
                    She took the quill from Margaret's passive hand and sat down at the table.
                        Spreading the missive  before her, she dipped
                        the quill in the ink-well, and when she lifted it, a drop of ink fell upon
                        the table within a hair's breadth of the parchment.
                    "Ah, Blessed Virgin!" cried Yolanda, snatching the missive away from the ink
                        blot. "If the ink had fallen on the parchment, we surely had been lost. I,
                        too, am trembling, and I dare not try to make the alteration now. What a
                        poor, helpless creature I am, when I cannot even cross a 't' to save myself.
                        Blessed Virgin, help me once more!"
                    But help did not come. Yolanda's excitement grew instead of subsiding, and
                        she was so wrought upon by a nameless fear that she began to weep. Margaret
                        seated herself on the divan and covered her face with her hands. Yolanda
                        walked the floor like a caged wild thing, uttering ejaculatory prayers to
                        the Virgin. Again she took up the quill, but again put it down,
                        exclaiming:—
                    "I have it, mother! There is a friend of whom I have often told you
                        — Sir Karl. He will help us if I can bring him here in time. If
                        father has left the castle, I'll take the letter to my parlor and fetch Sir
                        Karl. He is a brave, strong old man and his hand will not tremble."
                    Yolanda left the room and soon returned.
                    "Father has gone to the marshes," she whispered excitedly. "We have ample
                        time if I can find Sir Karl."
                    
                    She took the missive, the ink, and the quill to her parlor in Darius Tower,
                        and hurried to Castleman's house. How she got there I will soon tell
                        you.
                    She found Twonette sewing, and hastily explained her wishes.
                    "Run, Twonette, to The Mitre, and fetch me Sir Karl. I don't want Sir Max to
                        know that I am sending. I think Sir Max has gone falconing with father; I
                        pray God he has gone, and I pray that Sir Karl has not. Tell Sir Karl to
                        come to me at once. If he is not at the inn send for him. If you love me,
                        Twonette, make all haste. Run! Run!"
                    Twonette's haste was really wonderful. When she found me her cheeks were like
                        red roses, and she could hardly speak for lack of breath. For the first and
                        last time I saw Twonette shorn of her serenity.
                    The duke had not invited me to go hawking, and fortunately I had stayed at
                        home cuddling the thought that Yolanda was the Princess Mary, and that my
                        fair Prince Max had found rare favor in her eyes.
                    "Yolanda wants you at my father's house immediately," said Twonette, when I
                        stepped outside the inn door. "The need is urgent beyond measure." Whereupon
                        she courtesied and turned away. Twonette held that words were not made to be
                        wasted, so I asked no questions. I almost ran to Castleman's  house, and was taken at once to a large room
                        in the second story. It was on the west side of the house immediately
                        against the castle wall. The walls of the room were sealed with broad oak
                        panels, beautifully carved, and the west end of the apartment —
                        that next the castle wall—was hung with silk tapestries. When I
                        entered the room I found Yolanda alone. She hurriedly closed the door after
                        me and spoke excitedly:—
                    "I am so glad Twonette found you, Sir Karl. I am in dire need. Will you help
                        me?"
                    "I will help you if it is in my power, Yolanda," I answered. "You can ask
                        nothing which I will not at least try to do."
                    "Even at the risk of your life?" she asked, placing her hand upon my arm.
                    "Even to the loss of my life, Yolanda," I replied.
                    "Would you commit an act which the law calls a crime?" she asked, trembling
                        in voice and limb.
                    "I would do that which is really a crime, if I might thereby serve you to
                        great purpose," I answered. "God often does apparent evil that good may come
                        of it. An act must be judged as a whole, by its conception, its execution,
                        and its result. Tell me what you wish me to do, and I will do it without an
                        'if' — God giving me the power."
                    "Then come with me."
                    She took my hand and led me to the end of the 
                        room next the castle wall. There she held the draperies to one side while
                        she pushed back one of the oak panels. Through this opening we passed, and
                        the draperies fell together behind us. After Yolanda had opened the panel a
                        moment of light revealed to me a flight of stone steps built in the heart of
                        the castle wall, which at that point was sixteen feet thick. When Yolanda
                        closed the panel, we were in total darkness. She took my left hand in her
                        left and with her right arm at my back guided me up the long, dark stairway.
                        While mounting the steps, she said:—
                    "Now, Sir Karl, you have all my great secrets — at least, they are
                        very great to me. You know who I am, and you know of this stairway. No one
                        knows of it but my mother, uncle, aunt, Twonette, and my faithful
                        tire-woman, Anne. Even my father does not know of its existence. If he knew,
                        he would soon close it. My grandfather, Duke Philip the Good, built it in
                        the wall to connect his bedroom with the house of his true friend, burgher
                        Castleman. Some day I'll tell you the story of the stairway, and how I
                        discovered it. My bedroom is the one my grandfather occupied."
                    The stairway explained to me all the strange occurrences relating to
                        Yolanda's appearances and disappearances at Castleman's house, and it will
                        do the same for you.
                    
                    After we had climbed until I felt that surely we must be among the clouds, I
                        said:—
                    "Yolanda, you must be leading me to heaven."
                    "I should like to do that, Sir Karl," she responded, laughing softly.
                    "I would gladly give my life to lead you and Max to heaven," said I.
                    "Ah, Sir Karl," she answered gently, pressing my hand and caressingly placing
                        her cheek against my arm. "I dare not even think on that. If he could and
                        would take me, believing me to be a burgher girl, he would truly lead me to
                        heaven."
                    After a pause, while we rested to take a breath, I said: "What is it you want
                        me to do, Yolanda? I am unarmed."
                    "I shall not ask you to do murder, Sir Karl," she said, laughing nervously. I
                        fancied I could see a sparkle of mirth in her eyes as she continued: "It is
                        not so bad as that. Neither is there a dragon for you to overthrow. But I
                        shall soon enlighten you — here we are at the top of the
                        steps."
                    At the moment she spoke I collided with a heavy oak partition, in which
                        Yolanda quickly found a moving panel, and we entered a dimly lighted room. I
                        noticed among the furniture a gorgeously tapestried bed. A rich rug, the
                        like of which I had seen in Damascus, covered the floor. The stone walls
                        were draped with silk tapestry, and a jewelled lamp was  pendant from the vaulted ceiling. This was Yolanda's bedroom,
                        and truly it was a resting-place worthy of the richest princess in
                        Christendom. I felt that I was in the holy of holies. I found difficulty in
                        believing that the childlike Yolanda could be so important a personage in
                        the politics of Europe. She seemed almost to belong to me, so much at that
                        time did she lean on my strength.
                    Out of her sleeping apartment she led me to another and a larger room,
                        lighted by broad windows cut through the inner wall of the castle, which at
                        that point was not more than three or four feet thick. This was Yolanda's
                        parlor. The floor, like that of the bedroom, was covered with a Damascus
                        rug. The windows were closed by glass of crystal purity, and the furniture
                        was richer than any I had seen in the emperor's palace.
                    Yolanda led me to a table, pointed to a chair for me, and drew up one for
                        herself. At that moment a lady entered, whom Yolanda ran to meet. The
                        princess took the lady's hand and led her to me:—
                    "Sir Karl, this is my mother. As you already know, she is my stepmother, but
                        I forget that in the love I bear her, and in the sweet love she gives to
                        me."
                    I bent my knee before the duchess, who gave me her hand to kiss,
                        saying:—
                    "The princess has often spoken to me of you, Sir  Karl. I see she has crept into your heart. She wins all who know
                        her."
                    "My devotion to Her Highness is self-evident and needs no avowal," I
                        answered, "but I take pleasure in declaring it. I am ready to aid her at
                        whatever cost."
                    "Has the princess told you what she wants you to do?" asked the duchess.
                    I answered that she had not, but that I was glad to pledge myself
                        unenlightened. I then placed a chair for the duchess, but, of course,
                        remained standing. Yolanda resumed her chair, and said:—
                    "Fetch a chair, Sir Karl. We are glad to have you sit, are we not,
                        mother?"
                    "Indeed we are," said Margaret. "Please sit by the table, and the princess
                        will explain why she brought you here."
                    "I believe I can now do it myself, mother," said Yolanda, taking a folded
                        parchment from its pouch. "See, my hand is perfectly steady. Sir Karl has
                        given me strength."
                    She spread the parchment before her, and, taking a quill from the table,
                        dipped it in the ink-well.
                    "I'll not need you after all, Sir Karl. I find I can commit my own crime,"
                        she said, much to my disappointment. I was, you see, eager to sin for her. I
                        longed to kill some one or to do some other deed of valiant and perilous
                        villany.
                    
                    Yolanda bent over the missive, quill in hand, but hesitated. She changed her
                        position on the chair, squaring herself before the parchment, and tried
                        again, but she seemed unable to use the quill. She placed it on the table
                        and laughed nervously.
                    "I surely am a great fool," she said. "When I take the quill in my hand, I
                        tremble like a squire on his quintain trial. I'll wait a moment, and grow
                        calm again," she added, with a fluttering little laugh peculiar to her when
                        she was excited. But she did not grow calm, and after she had vainly taken
                        up the quill again and again, her mother said:—
                    "Poor child! Tell Sir Karl what you wish him to do."
                    Yolanda did so, and then read the missive. I did not know the English
                        language perfectly, but Yolanda, who spoke it as if it were her mother
                        tongue, translated as she read. I had always considered the island language
                        harsh till I heard Yolanda speak it. Even the hissing "th" was music on her
                        lips. Had I been a young man I would doubtless have made a fool of myself
                        for the sake of this beautiful child-woman. When she had finished reading
                        the missive, she left her chair and came to my side. She bent over my
                        shoulder, holding the parchment before me.
                    "What I want to do, but can't — what I want you to do is so small
                        and simple a matter that it is almost amusing. I grow angry when I think
                        that I  cannot do so little a thing to help
                        myself; but you see, Sir Karl, I tremble and my hand shakes to that extent I
                        fear to mar the page. I simply want to make the letter 't' on this parchment
                        and I can't. Will you do it for me?"
                    "Ay, gladly," I responded, "but where and why?" Then she pointed out to me
                        the word "nov" in the manuscript and said:—
                    "A letter 't,' if deftly done, will make 'not' instead of 'nov.' Do you
                        understand, Sir Karl?"
                    I sprang to my feet as if I had been touched by a sword-point. The thought
                        was so ingenious, the thing itself was so small and the result was so
                        tremendous that I stood in wonder before the daring girl who had conceived
                        it. I made no answer. I placed the parchment on the table, unceremoniously
                        reached in front of the duchess for the quill, and in less time than one can
                        count three I made a tiny ink mark not the sixteenth part of an inch long
                        that changed the destinies of nations for all time to come.
                    I placed the quill on the table and turned to Yolanda, just in time to catch
                        her as she was about to fall. I was frightened at the sight of her pale face
                        and cried out:—
                    "Yolanda! Yolanda!"
                    Margaret quickly brought a small goblet of wine, and I held the princess
                        while I opened her lips and poured a portion of the drink into her mouth. I
                        had  in my life seen, without a tremor,
                        hundreds of men killed, but I had never seen a woman faint, and the sight
                        almost unmanned me.
                    Stimulated by the wine Yolanda soon revived; and when she opened her eyes and
                        smiled up into my face, I was so joyful that I fell to kissing her hands and
                        could utter no word save "Yolanda, Yolanda." She did not at once rise from
                        my arms, but lay there smiling into my face as if she were a child. When she
                        did rise she laughed softly and said, turning to the duchess:—
                    "'Yolanda' is the name by which Sir Karl knows me. You see, mother, I was not
                        mistaken in deeming him my friend."
                    Then she turned suddenly to me, and taking my rough old hand in hers, lifted
                        it to her lips. That simple act of childish gratitude threw me into a fever
                        of ecstasy so great that death itself could have had no terrors for me. He
                        might have come when he chose. I had lived through that one moment, and even
                        God could not rob me of it.
                    Yolanda moved away from me and took up the parchment.
                    "Don't touch it till the ink dries," I cried sharply.
                    She dropped it as if it were hot, and the duchess came to me, and graciously
                        offered her hand:—
                    "I thank you with my whole heart, not only for what you have done, but for
                        the love you bear the  princess. She is the
                        one I love above all others, and I know she loves me. I love those who love
                        her. As the French say, 'Les amies de mes amies sont mes
                            amies.' I am a poor helpless woman, more to be pitied than the
                        world can believe. I have only my gratitude to offer you, Sir Karl, but that
                        shall be yours so long as I live."
                    "Your Grace's reward is far too great for the small service I have rendered,"
                        I replied, dropping to my knee. I was really beginning to live in my
                        sixtieth year. I was late in starting, but my zest for life was none the
                        less, now that I had at last learned its sweetness through these two
                        gracious women.
                    When we had grown more composed, Yolanda explained to me her hopes regarding
                        the French king's answer to the altered missive, and the whole marvellous
                        possibilities of the letter "t" dawned upon my mind. The princess bent over
                        the parchment, watching our mighty "t" while the ink was drying, but the
                        process was too slow for her, so she filled her cheeks and breathed upon the
                        writing. The color returned to her face while I watched her, and I felt that
                        committing a forgery was a small price to pay for witnessing so beautiful a
                        sight. Yolanda's breath soon dried the ink, and then we examined my work. I
                        had performed wonders. The keenest eye could not detect the alteration.
                        Yolanda, as usual, sprang from the deepest purgatory of trouble to the
                        seventh  heaven of joy. She ran about the
                        room, singing, dancing, and laughing, until the duchess warned her to be
                        quiet. Then she placed her hand over her mouth, shrugged her shoulders,
                        walked on tiptoe, and spoke only in whispers. Margaret smiled affectionately
                        at Yolanda's childish antics and said: —
                    "I think the conspirators should disperse. I hope, Sir Karl, that I may soon
                        meet you in due form. Meantime, of course, it is best that we do not know
                        each other."
                    After examining the missive for the twentieth time, Yolanda placed it in its
                        pouch and turned to the duchess.
                    "Take it, mother, to the iron box, and I will lead Sir Karl back to Uncle
                        Castleman's," she said.
                    The duchess graciously offered me a goblet of wine, and after I had drunk,
                        Yolanda led me down the stairway to the House under the Wall. While
                        descending Yolanda called my attention to a loose stone in the wall of the
                        staircase.
                    "The other end of this stone," she said, "penetrates the wall of the room
                        that you and Sir Max occupied the night before you were liberated. The
                        mortar has fallen away, and it was here that I spoke to you and told you not
                        to fear."
                    Here was another supernatural marvel all too easily explained.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI
                    PARTICEPS CRIMINIS
                    
                        T
                        HAT evening after supper Max and I walked over to
                        Castleman's. The evening was cool, and we were sitting in the great parlor
                        talking with Castleman and Twonette when Yolanda entered. The room was fully
                        fifty feet long, and extended across the entire front of the house. A huge
                        chimney was built at the east end of the room, and on either side of the
                        fireplace was a cushioned bench. A similar bench extended across the entire
                        west end of the room. When Yolanda entered she ran to me and took my
                        hand.
                    "Come, Sir Karl, I want to speak with you," she said.
                    She led me to the west end of the room, sat down on the cushioned bench, and
                        drew in her skirts that I might sit close beside her.
                    "I want to tell you about the missive, Sir Karl," she whispered, laughing and
                        shrugging her shoulders in great glee. "Mother returned it to the box, and
                        when I left you I hurried back and haunted the room, fearing that some one
                        might meddle with the parchment.  Near the
                        hour of six o'clock father entered. I was sitting on the divan, and he sat
                        down in his great chair, of course taking no notice of me — I am
                        too insignificant for so great a person to notice, except when he is
                        compelled to do so. I was joyful in my heart, but I conjured up all my
                        troubles that I might make myself weep. I feared to show any change in
                        myself, so I sobbed aloud now and then, and soon father turned angrily
                        toward me. 'Are you still there?' he asked. 'Yes, father,' I answered, as if
                        trying to stifle my sobs. 'Are you really going to send that cruel letter to
                        King Louis?'"
                    "Cruel, indeed," I interrupted.
                    "Ah, yes! Well, father made no reply, and I went over to him and began to
                        plead. I should have wanted to cut my tongue out had I succeeded, but I had
                        little fear. Father is not easily touched by another's suffering, and my
                        tears only hardened his heart. Well, of course, he repulsed me; and soon a
                        page announced Byron the herald and the Bishop of Cambrai. Father took the
                        packet from the iron box, and put his fingers in the pouch, as if he were
                        going to take out the letter. He hesitated, and during that moment of
                        halting I was by turns cold as ice and hot as fire. Finally his resolution
                        took form, and he drew out the missive. I thought I should die then and
                        there, when he began to look it over. But after a careless glance he put it
                        back in the pouch, and  threw it on the table
                        in front of the bishop. I could hardly keep from shouting for joy. He had
                        failed to see the alteration, and in case of its discovery, he might now be
                        his own witness against King Louis, should that crafty monarch dare to alter
                        my father's missive by so much as the crossing of a 't'. If father hereafter
                        discovers anything wrong in the letter, he will be able to swear that King
                        Louis was the evil doer, since father himself put the letter in the pouch
                        with his own hands. Father will never suspect that a friend came to me out
                        of far-away Styria to commit this crime."
                    "I rejoice that I came," I said.
                    "And I," she answered. "I feared the bishop would read the letter, but he did
                        not. He tied the ribbon, softened the lead wafer over the lamp flame, and
                        placed it on the bow-knot; then he stamped it with father's small seal. When
                        it was finished I did not want to laugh for joy — when one is very
                        happy one wants to weep. That I could safely do, and I did. The bishop
                        handed the letter to Byron, and father spoke commandingly: 'Deliver the
                        missive to the French king before you sleep or eat, unless he has left
                        Paris. If he has gone to Tours, follow him and loiter not.' 'And if he is
                        not in Tours, Your Grace?' asked Byron. 'Follow him till you find him,'
                        answered father, 'if you must cross the seas.' 'Shall I do all this without
                        eating or sleeping?'  asked Byron. Father rose
                        angrily, and Byron said: 'If Your Grace will watch from the donjon
                        battlements, in five minutes you will see me riding on your mission. When
                        Your Grace sees me riding back, it will be, I fear, the ghost of Byron.'
                    "It was a wearisome task for me to climb the donjon stairs, but I knew father
                        would not be there to watch Byron set out, and I felt that one of the family
                        should give him God-speed; so alone, and frightened almost out of my wits, I
                        climbed those dark steps to the battlements, and gazed after Byron till he
                        was a mere speck on the horizon down toward Paris. I pray God there may be a
                        great plenty of trouble grow out of the crossing of this 't'. Father is
                        always saying that women were put on earth to make trouble, so I'll do what
                        little I can to make true His Lordship's words." She threw back her head,
                        laughing softly. "Is it not glorious, Sir Karl?"
                    "Indeed, Princess —" I began, but she clapped her hand over my mouth
                        and I continued, "Indeed, Yolanda, the plan is so adroit and so effective
                        that it fills me with admiration and awe."
                    "I like the name Yolanda," said she, looking toward Max, who was sitting with
                        Twonette on one of the benches by the chimney.
                    "And I, too, like it," I responded. "I cannot think of you as the greatest
                        and richest princess in Europe."
                    
                    "Ah, I wish I, too, could forget it, but I can't," she answered with a sigh,
                        glancing from under her preposterously long lashes toward Max and
                        Twonette.
                    "How came you to take the name Yolanda?" I asked.
                    "Grandfather wished to give me the name in baptism," she answered, "but Mary
                        fell to my lot. I like the present arrangement. Mary is the name of the
                        princess — the unhappy, faulty princess. Yolanda is my name. Almost
                        every happy hour I have ever spent has been as Yolanda. You cannot know the
                        wide difference between me and the Princess Mary. It is, Sir Karl, as if we
                        were two persons."
                    She spoke very earnestly, and I could see that there was no mirth in her
                        heart when she thought of her-self as the Princess Mary; she was not
                        jesting.
                    "I don't know the princess," I said laughingly, "but I know Yolanda."
                    "Yes; I'll tell you a great secret, Sir Karl. The Princess Mary is not at all
                        an agreeable person. She is morose, revengeful, haughty, cold —"
                        here her voice dropped to a whisper, "and, Sir Karl, she lies — she
                        lies. While Yolanda — well, Yolanda at least is not cold, and I
                        — I think she is a very delightful person. Don't you?"
                    There was a troubled, eager expression in her eyes that told plainly she was
                        in earnest. To Yolanda the princess was another person.
                    
                    "Yolanda is very sure of me," I answered.
                    "Ah, that she is," answered the girl. You see, this was a real case of
                        billing and cooing between December and May.
                    A short silence followed, during which Yolanda glanced furtively toward Max
                        and Twonette.
                    "You spoke of your grandfather," said I, "and that reminds me that you
                        promised to tell me the story of the staircase in the wall."
                    "So I did," answered Yolanda, haltingly. Her attention was at the other end
                        of the room.
                    "Do you think Twonette a very pretty girl?" she asked.
                    "Yes," I answered, surprised at the abrupt question. I caught a glimpse of
                        Yolanda's face and saw that I had made a mistake, so I continued hastily:
                        "That is — yes — yes, she is pretty, though not beautiful.
                        Her face, I think, is rather dollish. It is a fine creation in pink and
                        white, but I fear it lacks animation."
                    "Now for the stairway in the wall," said Yolanda, settling herself with the
                        pretty little movements peculiar to her when she was contented. "As I told
                        you, grandfather built it. Afterward he ceded Peronne to King Louis, and for
                        many years none of our family ever saw the castle. A few years ago King
                        Louis ceded it to my father. Father has never lived here, and has visited
                        Peronne only once in a while, for the  purpose
                        of looking after his affairs on the French border. The castle is very
                        strong, and, being here on the border at the meeting of the Somme and the
                        Cologne, it has endured many sieges, but it has never been taken. It is
                        called 'Peronne La Pucelle.'
                    "Father's infrequent visits to the castle have been brief, and all who have
                        ever known of the stairway are dead or have left Burgundy, save the good
                        people in this house, my mother, my tire-woman, and myself. Three or four
                        years ago, when I was a child, mother and I, unhappy at Ghent and an
                        annoyance to father, came here to live in the castle, and — and
                        — I wonder what Sir Max and Twonette find to talk about —
                        and Twonette and I became friends. I love Twonette dearly, but she is a sly
                        creature, for all she is so demure, and she is bolder than you would think,
                        Sir Karl. These very demure girls are often full of surprises. She has been
                        sitting there in the shadow with Sir Max for half an hour. That, I say,
                        would be bold in any girl. Well, to finish about the staircase: my bedroom,
                        as I told you, was my grandfather's. One day Twonette was visiting me, and
                        we — we — Sir Max, what in the world are you and Twonette
                        talking about? We can't hear a word you say."
                    "We can't hear what you are saying," retorted Max.
                    "I wish you were young, Sir Karl," whispered Yolanda, "so that I might make
                        him jealous."
                    
                    "Shall we come to you?" asked Max.
                    "No, no, stay where you are," cried Yolanda; then, turning to me, "Where did
                        I stop?"
                    "Your bedroom —" I suggested.
                    "Yes—my bedroom was my grandfather's. One day I had Twonette in to
                        play with me, and we rummaged every nook and corner we could reach. By
                        accident we discovered the movable panel. We pushed it aside, and spurring
                        our bravery by daring each other, we descended the dark stairway step by
                        step until we came suddenly against the oak panel at the foot. We grew
                        frightened and cried aloud for help. For-tunately, Tante Castleman was on
                        the opposite side of the panel in the oak room, and — and
                        —"
                    She had been halting in the latter part of her narrative and I plainly saw
                        what was coming.
                    "Tante Castleman was—was— It was fortunate she —
                        was in —" She sprang to her feet, exclaiming: "I'm going to tell
                        Twonette what I think of her boldness in sitting there in the dark with Sir
                        Max. Her father is not here to do it." And that was the last I heard of the
                        stairway in the wall.
                    Yolanda ran across the room to the bench by the fireplace and stamped her
                        foot angrily before Twonette.
                    "It—it is immodest for a girl to sit here in the deep shadow beside
                        a gentleman for hours together.  Shame,
                        Twonette! Your father is not here to correct you."
                    Castleman had left the room.
                    Twonette laughed, rose hurriedly, and stood by Yolanda in front of Max.
                        Yolanda, by way of apology, took Twonette's hand, but after a few words she
                        coolly appropriated her place "in the deep shadow beside a gentleman." A
                        princess enjoys many privileges denied to a burgher girl. When a girl
                        happens to be both, the burgher girl is apt to be influenced by the
                        princess, as the princess is apt to be modified by the life of the burgher
                        girl. Presently Yolanda said:—
                    "Please go, Twonette, and mix a bowl of wine and honey. Yours is delicious.
                        Put in a bit of allspice, Twonette, and pepper, beat it well, Twonette, and
                        don't spare the honey. Now there's a good girl. Go quickly, but don't hurry
                        back. Haste, you know, Twonette, makes waste, and you may spoil the
                        wine."
                    Twonette laughed and went to mix the wine and honey. I walked back to the
                        other end of the room, and sat down by a window to watch the night gather
                        without. I was athrill with the delightful thought that, all unknown to the
                        world, unknown even to himself, Max, through my instrumentality, was wooing
                        Mary of Burgundy within fifty feet of where I sat. He was not, of course,
                        actively pressing his suit, but all unconsciously he was taking the best
                        course to win her heart forever and ever. Now, with a  propitious trick of fortune, my fantastic dream, conceived in
                        far-off Styria, might yet become a veritable fact. By what rare trick this
                        consummation might be brought about, I did not know, but fortune had been
                        kind so far, and I felt that her capricious lady-ship would not abandon
                        us.
                    Yolanda turned to Max with a soft laugh of satisfaction, settled her skirts
                        about her, as a pleased woman is apt to do, and said contentedly:
                        —
                    "There, now!"
                    "Fräulein, you are very kind to me," said Max.
                    "Yes — yes, I am, Sir Max," she responded, beaming on him. "Now,
                        tell me what you and Twonette have been talking about."
                    "You," answered Max.
                    A laugh gurgled in her throat as she asked: —
                    "What else?"
                    "I'll tell you if you will tell me what you and Sir Karl were saying," he
                        responded.
                    "Ah, I see!" she exclaimed, clapping her hands gleefully. "You were
                        jealous."
                    "I admit it," he answered, so very seriously that one might have thought him
                        in earnest. "And you, Fräulein?"
                    "I jealous?" she responded, with lifted eyebrows. "You are a vain man, Sir
                        Max. I was not jealous — only — only a tiny bit —
                        so much —" and she measured the extent of her jealousy on the pink
                        tip  of her little finger. "I am told you were
                        falconing with the Duke of Burgundy to-day. If you go in such fine company,
                        I fear we shall see little of you."
                    "There is no company finer than — than —" Max checked his
                        tongue.
                    "Say it, Max, say it," she whispered coaxingly, leaning toward him.
                    "Than you, Fräulein." The girl leaned back contentedly against the wall, and
                        Max continued: "Yes, his lordship was kind to me, and most gracious. I
                        cannot believe the stories of cruelty I hear of him. I have been told that
                        on different occasions he has used personal violence on his wife and
                        daughter. If that be true, he must be worse than the brutes of the field,
                        but you may be sure, Yolanda, the stories are false."
                    "Alas! I fear they are too true," responded the girl, sighing in memory of
                        the afternoon.
                    "He is a pleasing companion when he wishes to be," said Max, "and I hear his
                        daughter, the princess, is much like him."
                    "Heavens!" exclaimed Yolanda, "I hope she is like him only when he is
                        pleasing."
                    "That is probably true," said Max.
                    "There is where I am really jealous, Max — this princess —"
                        she said, leaning forward and looking up into his face with unmistakable
                        earnestness.
                    "Why?" asked Max, laughing.
                    
                    "Because men love wealth and high estate. There are scores of men —
                        at least, so I have been told — eager to marry this princess, who
                        do not even know that she is not hideous to look upon and vixenish in
                        temper. They would take her gladly, with any deformity, physical, mental, or
                        moral, for the sake of possessing Burgundy."
                    "But I am told she is fair and beautiful," said Max.
                    "Believe it not," said Yolanda, sullenly. "Whoever heard of a rich princess
                        who was not beautiful? Anne and Joan, daughters of King Louis, are always
                        spoken of as paragons of beauty; yet those who know tell me these royal
                        ladies are hideous. King Louis has nicknamed Joan 'The Owlet' because she is
                        little, ill-shapen, and black. Anne is tall, large of bone, fat, and sallow.
                        He should name her 'The Giantess of Beaujeu'; and the little half-witted
                        Dauphin he should dub 'Knight of the Princely Order of House Rats.'"
                    That she was deeply in earnest there could be no doubt.
                    "I hope you do not speak so freely to others," said Max. "If His Grace of
                        Burgundy should hear of your words he might —"
                    "I hope you will not tell him," said Yolanda, laughing. "But this Mary!" she
                        continued, clinging stubbornly to the dangerous topic. "You came to woo her
                        estates, and in the end you will do so."
                    
                    I am convinced that the girl was intensely jealous of herself. When she
                        feared that Max might seek the Princess Mary, her heart brooded over the
                        thought that he would do so for the sake of her wealth and her domains.
                    "I have told you once, Fräulein, what I will do and what I will not. For your
                        own sake and mine I'll tell you no more," said Max.
                    "If I were a great princess," said Yolanda, pouting and hanging her head,
                        "you would not speak so sharply to me." Evidently she was hurt by Max's
                        words, though they were the expression, not of his displeasure, but of his
                        pain.
                    "Fräulein, forgive me; my words were not meant to be sharp. It was my pain
                        that spoke. You torture me and cause me to torture myself," said Max. "To
                        keep a constant curb on one's ardent longing is exhausting. It takes the
                        heart out of a man. At times you seem to forget that my silence is my great
                        grief, not my fault. Ah, Fräulein! you cannot understand my longing and my
                        struggle."
                    "I do understand," she answered plaintively, slipping her hand into his, "and
                        unless certain recent happenings have the result I hope for, you, too, will
                        understand, more clearly than you now do, within a very short time."
                    She covered her face with her hands. Her words mystified Max, and he was on
                        the point of asking her  to explain. He loved
                        and pitied her, and would have put his arm around her waist to comfort her,
                        but she sprang to her feet, exclaiming: —
                    "No, no, Little Max, let us save all that for our farewell. You will not have
                        long to wait."
                    Wisdom returned to Max, and he knew that she was right in helping him to
                        resist the temptation that he had so valiantly struggled against since
                        leaving Basel.
                    All that I had really hoped for in Styria, all our fair dreams upon the
                        castle walls of Hapsburg, had come to pass. Max had, beyond doubt, won the
                        heart of Mary of Burgundy, but that would avail nothing unless by some good
                        chance conditions should so change that Mary would be able to choose for
                        her-self. In such case, ambition would cut no figure in her choice. The
                        chains of duty to family, state, and ancestry that bound Max's feet so
                        firmly would be but wisps of straw about Yolanda's slender ankles. She would
                        have no hesitancy in making her choice, were she free to do so, and states
                        might go hang for all she would care. Her heart was her state. Would she
                        ever be able to choose? Fortune had been kind to us thus far; would she
                        remain our friend? She is a coquette; but the heart of a coquette, if truly
                        won, is the most steadfast of all.
                    Twonette brought in the wine and honey: Castleman soon returned and lighted
                        the lamp, and we  all sat talking before the
                        small blaze in the fireplace, till the great clock in the middle of the room
                        chimed the hour of ten. Then Yolanda ran from us with a hurried good night,
                        and Max returned with me to the inn.
                    I cannot describe the joy I took from the recurring thought that I was
                        particeps criminis with the Princess of Burgundy in the commission of a
                        crime. At times I wished the crime had been greater and its extenuation far
                        less. We hear much about what happens when thieves fall out, but my
                        observation teaches me that thieves usually remain good friends. The bonds
                        of friendship had begun to strengthen between Yolanda and me before she
                        sought my help in the perpetration of her great crime. After that black
                        felony, they became like links of Milan chain. I shared her secrets, great
                        and small.
                    One day while Yolanda and I were sitting in the oak room, — the room
                        from which the panel opened into the stairway in the wall, — I said
                        to her: —
                    "If your letter 't' causes a break with France, perhaps Max's opportunity may
                        come."
                    "I do not know — I cannot hope," she responded dolefully. "You see,
                        when father made this treaty with Francs, he was halting between two men in
                        the choice of a husband for me. One was the Dauphin, son to King Louis, whom
                        father hates with every  breath he draws. The
                        other was the Duke of Gelders, whom father really likes. Gelders is a brute,
                        Sir Karl. He kept his father in prison four years, and usurped his domain.
                        He is a drunkard, a murderer, and a profligate. For reasons of state father
                        chose the Dauphin, but if the treaty with France is broken, I suppose it
                        will be Gelders again. If it comes to that, Sir Karl — but I'll not
                        say what I'll do. My head is full of schemes from morning till night, and
                        when I sleep my poor brain is a whirl of visions. Self-destruction,
                        elopement, and I know not what else appeal to me. How far is it to Styria,
                        Sir Karl?" she asked abruptly.
                    "Two or three hundred leagues, perhaps — it may be more," I
                        answered. "I do not know how far it is, Yolanda, but it is not far enough
                        for your purposes. Even could you reach there, Styria could not protect
                        you."
                    "I was not thinking of — of what you suppose, Sir Karl," she said
                        plaintively.
                    "What were you thinking of, Yolanda?" I asked.
                    "Of nothing — of — of — a wild dream of hiding
                        away from the world in some unknown corner, at times comes to me in my sleep
                        — only in my sleep, Sir Karl — for in my waking hours I
                        know it to be impossible. The only pleasant part of being a princess is that
                        the world envies you; but what a poor bauble it is to buy at the frightful
                        price I pay!"
                    
                    "I have been on mountain tops," I answered philosophically, "and I find that
                        breathing grows difficult as one ascends."
                    "Ah, Sir Karl," she answered tearfully, "I believe I'll go upstairs and
                        weep."
                    I led her to the moving panel and opened it for her. Without turning her face
                        she held back her hand for me to kiss. Then she started up the dark stone
                        steps, and I knew that she was weeping. I closed the panel and sat on the
                        cushioned bench. To say that I would have given my old life to win happiness
                        for her but poorly measures my devotion. A man's happiness depends entirely
                        on the number and quality of those to whom his love goes out. Before meeting
                        Yolanda I drew all my happiness from loving one person — Max. Now
                        my source was doubled, and I wished for the first time that I might live my
                        life again, to lay it at this girl's feet.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII
                    TRIAL BY COMBAT
                    
                        MAX had waited until Calli's arm was mended to bring up
                        the subject of the trial by combat; but when he would have taken it before
                        the duke, I dissuaded him by many pretexts, and for a few days it was
                        dropped. But soon it was brought forward in a most unpleasant way. Max and I
                        were in the streets of Peronne one afternoon, and as we approached a group
                        of ragged boys, one of them cried out: —
                    "There is the fellow that challenged Count Calli, but won't fight him!"
                    Max turned upon the boy, caught him roughly by the shoulder, and asked him
                        where he got his information. The frightened boy replied that his father was
                        a hostler in the duke's stables, and had heard Count Calli say that the
                        fellow who had challenged him was "all gauntlet but no fight."
                    We at once sought Hymbercourt, who, on being closely questioned, admitted
                        that the Italians in the castle were boasting that the stranger who seemed
                        so eager to fight when Calli's arm was lame, had lost his courage now that
                        the arm was healed.
                    
                    Of course I was in a deal of trouble over this combat, and heartily wished
                        the challenge had never been given, though I had all faith in Max's strength
                        and skill. I, who had fought constantly for twenty years, had trained him
                        since his tenth birthday. I had not only trained him; I had introduced him
                        to the lists at eighteen — he being well grown, strong of limb, and
                        active as a wildcat. I waged him against a famous tilt-yard knight, and Max
                        held his own man-fully, to his great credit and to my great joy. The battle
                        was a draw. My first great joy in life came a few months afterward, when Max
                        unhorsed this same knight, and received the crown of victory from the queen
                        of the lists.
                    But this combat would be a battle of death. Two men would enter the lists;
                        one would die in the course.
                    Max could, with propriety, announce his title and refuse to fight one so far
                        beneath him as Calli; but even my love for the boy and my fear of the
                        outcome, could not induce me to advise this. The advice would have been
                        little heeded had I given it. Max was not one in whose heart hatred could
                        thrive, but every man should have a just sense of injury received, and no
                        one should leave all vengeance to God. In Max's heart this sense was almost
                        judicial. The court of his conscience had convicted Calli of an unforgivable
                        crime, and he felt that it was his God-appointed duty to carry out the
                        sentence.
                    
                    While I had all faith in Max's strength and skill, I also knew Calli to be a
                        strong, time-hardened man, well used to arms. What his skill was, I could
                        not say, but fame proclaimed it great. It would need to be great to kill
                        Max, boy though he was, but accidents are apt to happen in the lists, and
                        Calli was treacherous. I was deep in trouble, but I saw no way out but for
                        Max to fight. So, on the morning after our conversation with Hymbercourt,
                        Max and I sought admission to the duke's audience. Charles had been
                        privately told of our purpose and of course was delighted at the prospect of
                        a battle to the death.
                    A tournament with, mayhap, a few broken heads furnished him great enjoyment;
                        but a real battle between two men, each seeking the other's life, was such
                        keen pleasure to his savage, blood-loving nature, that its importance could
                        hardly be measured. Charles would have postponed his war against the Swiss,
                        I verily believe, rather than miss this combat between Max and Calli.
                    The duke hurried through the business of the morning, and then turned toward
                        Max, signifying that his time had come. Max stepped before the ducal throne,
                        made his obeisance, and said: —
                    "May it please Your Highness to recall a wage of battle given by me some
                        weeks ago, in this hall and in this august presence, to one who calls
                        himself  Count Calli? The cause of my
                        complaint against the said Calli I need not here rehearse. I have waited to
                        repeat my defiance until such time as Count Calli's arm should mend. I am
                        told that he is now strong; and, most gracious Lord Charles, Duke of
                        Burgundy, I again offer my wage of battle against this said knight and
                        demand the trial by combat."
                    Thereupon he drew an iron gauntlet from his girdle and threw it clanking on
                        the stone floor. The gauntlet lay untouched for the space of a minute or
                        two; and the duke turned toward Calli and Campo-Basso, who stood surrounded
                        by their Italian friends at the right of the throne. After a long pause
                        Charles said: —
                    "Will Count Calli lift the gage, or shall we appoint a court of heraldry to
                        determine whether or no the combat shall take place?"
                    There was a whispered conversation among the Italians, after which
                        Campo-Basso addressed the duke.
                    "My most gracious lord," said he, "the noble Count Calli is loath to lift the
                        gage of an unknown man, and would make bold to say that he will not do so
                        until he is satisfied that he who so boastingly offers it is worthy in
                        blood, station, and knighthood to stand before him."
                    "For all that I will stand surety," said Hymbercourt, turning to the duke and
                        to Campo-Basso.
                    
                    "The Lord d'Hymbercourt's honor is beyond reproach," replied the Italian,
                        "but Count Calli must have other proof."
                    Hymbercourt was about to make an angry reply, but he was silenced by the
                        duke's uplifted hand.
                    "We will ourself be surety for this knight," said Charles.
                    "We cannot gainsay Your Lordship's surety, most gracious duke," returned
                        Campo-Basso; "but with all meekness and humility we would suggest, with Your
                        Grace's permission, that when a man jeopards his life against another he
                        feels it his right to know at least his foe's name."
                    "Count Calli must content himself with knowing that the knight's name is Sir
                        Maximilian du Guelph. If Count Calli is right and his cause just, God will
                        give him victory, and the whole world shall know of his deed. If he is in
                        the wrong and his cause unjust, may God have mercy on his soul."
                    A long pause ensued during which Max stood before the duke, a noble figure of
                        manly beauty worthy the chisel of a Greek sculptor. The shutter in the
                        ladies' gallery was ajar and I caught a glimpse of Yolanda's pale,
                        tear-stained face as she looked down upon the man she loved, who was to put
                        his life in peril to avenge her wrong.
                    "We are wasting time, Count Calli," spoke the duke. "Take up the gage or
                        demand a court. The  charge made by Sir Max
                        will certainly justify a court of chivalry in ordering the combat. The truth
                        or falsity of that charge you and Sir Max must prove on each other's bodies.
                        His desire to remain unknown the court will respect; he has ample precedent.
                        If you are convinced by the word of our Lord d'Hymbercourt and myself that
                        he is of birth and station worthy to engage with you in knightly and mortal
                        combat, you can ask no more. Few courts of chivalry, I take it, would hold
                        the evidence inconclusive. Take up or leave the gage, Sir Count, and do one
                        or the other at once."
                    Calli walked over to the gauntlet and, taking it from the floor, held it in
                        his right hand while he bent his knee before the duke. He did not look
                        toward Max, but turned in the direction of his friends and tucked the
                        gauntlet in his girdle as he strode away.
                    "We appoint this day twelve days, on a Sunday afternoon, for the combat,"
                        said Charles. "Then these men shall do their endeavor, each upon the other;
                        and may God give victory to the right!"
                    That evening, as usual, Max and I were at Castleman's. Yolanda did not come
                        down till late, but when she came she clung silently to Max, and there was a
                        deep pathos in her every word and glance. As we left, I went back and
                        whispered hurriedly to her: —
                    
                    "Have no fear, dear one. Our Max will take no harm."
                    My words were bolder than my heart, but I thought to comfort her.
                    "I have no fear, Sir Karl," she said, in a trembling voice. "There is no man
                        so strong and brave as Max. He is in the right, and God is just. The Blessed
                        Virgin, too, will help him. It would be sacrilege to doubt her. I do not
                        doubt. I do not fear, Sir Karl, but, oh, my friend —" Here she
                        buried her face on my breast and wept convulsively. Her words, too, had been
                        bolder than her heart — far bolder.
                    The brooding instinct in me — the faint remnant of mother love, that
                        kind Providence has left in every good man's heart — longed to
                        comfort her and bear her pains. But I was powerless to help her, and, after
                        all, her suffering was wholesome. In a moment she continued, sobbing while
                        she spoke: —
                    "But — oh! if by any mischance Max should fall; if by treachery or
                        accident — oh, Sir Karl, my heart is breaking. Do not let Max
                        fight." These words were from her woman's heart. "His station will excuse
                        him, but if the affair has gone too far for him to withdraw, tell him to
                        — to leave Burgundy, to run away, to—"
                    "Yolanda, what are you saying?" I asked. "Would you not rather see him dead
                        than a coward?"
                    
                    "No, no, Sir Karl," she cried, wrought almost to a frenzy by her grief and
                        fear. "No, no, anything but dead."
                    "Listen to reason, Yolanda," I answered. "I, who love Max more than I love
                        the blood of my heart, would kill him with my own hand rather than have
                        cause to call him coward and speak the truth."
                    "No, no," she cried desperately, grasping my hand. "Do not let him fight. Ah,
                        Sir Karl, if you bear me any love, if my grief and unhappy lot have touched
                        your heart, even on the smallest spot, I pray you, do this thing for me. Do
                        not let Max fight with this Count Calli. If Max falls —"
                    "But Max will not fall," I answered boldly. "He has overthrown better men
                        than Calli."
                    "Has he? Ah, tell me, has he? He is little more than a boy. I seem older than
                        he at times, and it is hard to believe what you say, though I know he is
                        strong, and that fear has no place in his heart. Tell me, whom has he
                        overthrown?"
                    "Another time, Yolanda," I responded soothingly, "but this I say now to
                        comfort you. Calli is no match for our Max. In the combat that is to come,
                        Max can kill him if he chooses, barring accidents and treachery. Over and
                        above his prowess, his cause, you know, is just, and for that reason God
                        will be with him."
                    "Yes, yes," sobbed Yolanda, "and the Virgin, too."
                    
                    The Virgin was a woman in whom she could find a woman's sympathy. She trusted
                        God and stood in reverent awe of Him; but one could easily see that the
                        Virgin held her heart and was her refuge in time of trouble. When I turned
                        to leave she called me back, saying: —
                    "I have a mind to tell Max the truth — to tell him who I am."
                    "I would not do so now," I answered, fearing, perhaps with good reason, the
                        effect of the disclosure on Max. "After the combat, if you wish to tell him
                        —"
                    "But if he should fall?" said the girl, beginning to weep again and clinging
                        desperately to my arm. "If he should fall, not knowing who I am?"
                    "Max will not fall, Yolanda. Dismiss that fear from your heart."
                    My bold words served a double purpose. They at least partially satisfied
                        Yolanda, and they strengthened me.
                    Of course Max and I at once began to prepare for the combat. The charger we
                        had captured from the robbers on the Rhine now came to our hand as if sent
                        by Providence. He was a large, active horse, with limbs like steel. He was
                        an intelligent animal, too, and a good brain is almost as valuable in a
                        horse as in a man. He had evidently borne arms all his  life, for when we tried him in the tilt-yard we found him
                        trained at every point.
                    There was no heavy plate at the Peronne armorer's large enough for Max, so
                        Hymbercourt dropped a hint to Duke Charles, and His Grace sent two beautiful
                        suits to our inn. One was of Barcelona make, the other an old suit which we
                        judged had come from Damascus. I tried the latter with my sword, and spoiled
                        a good blade. Although the Damascus armor was too heavy by a stone, we chose
                        it, and employed an armorer to tighten a few nuts, and to adjust new straps
                        to the shoulder plates and arm pieces.
                    We caused lists to be built outside the walls, and Max worked eight hours a
                        day to harden himself. He ran against me, against our squires, who were
                        lusty big fellows, and now and then against Hymbercourt, who was a most
                        accomplished knight.
                    Yolanda was prone to coax Max not to fight, and her fear showed itself in
                        every look and gesture. Her words, of course, could not have turned him, but
                        her fears might have undermined his self-confidence. So I pointed out to her
                        the help he would get from encouragement, and the possible hurt he would
                        take were her fears to infect him. After my admonition, her efforts to be
                        cheerful and confident almost brought tears to my eyes. She would sing, but
                        her song was joyless. She would banter Max and would run  imaginary courses with him, taking the part
                        of Calli, and always falling dead at Max's feet; but the moment of
                        relaxation brought a haunting, terrified expression to her eyes. The corners
                        of her sweet mouth would droop, effacing the cluster of dimples that played
                        about her lips, and the fair, childish face, usually so joyful, wore the
                        mask of grief. For the first time in her life real happiness had come, not
                        within her grasp, but within sight; and this combat might snatch it from
                        her.
                    Once when I was helping Max to buckle on his armor for a bout at practice, he
                        said: —
                    "Yolanda seems to treat this battle as a jest. She laughs and banters me as
                        if it were to be a justing bout. I wonder if she really has a heart?"
                    "Max, I am surprised at your dulness," I said. "Do you not see her manner is
                        assumed, though her fear is small because of her great faith in your
                        prowess?"
                    "I'll try to deserve her faith," answered Max.
                    When at last the day arrived, Max was in prime condition. At the inn we
                        carefully adjusted the armor and fitted it on him. One of our squires led
                        the charger, carefully trapped, to the lists, which had been built in an
                        open field outside the town, west of the castle.
                    Max and I, accompanied by Hymbercourt and two 
                        other friends, rode down to Castleman's, and Max entered the house for a few
                        minutes. Yolanda had told him that she would not be at the lists, and Max
                        felt that it were better so.
                    Twonette and her father had gone to the lists when we reached the House under
                        the Wall, but Yolanda and Frau Kate were awaiting us. There was a brief
                        greeting and a hurried parting — tearful on Yolanda's part. Then we
                        rode around to the Postern and entered the courtyard of the castle. Crossing
                        the courtyard, we passed out through the great gate at the keep, and soon
                        stood demanding admission to the lists.
                    The course, was laid off north and south, the sun being in the southwest. The
                        hour of battle was fixed at four o'clock, and the combat was to continue
                        till sundown, if neither champion fell before that time. The pavilion for
                        the duke and the other spectators was built at the west side of the false
                        lists — a strip of ground ten feet wide, extending entirely around
                        the true lists, but separated from it by a barrier or railing three feet
                        high.
                    It was an hour after we left Castleman's house before Max and I entered the
                        false lists. As I expected, the princess was sitting in the pavilion with
                        her father and Duchess Margaret. A veil partly concealed her features, and
                        when Max rode down the false lists to make his obeisance before the duke and
                             the duchess, he could not know that the
                        white face of Yolanda looked down upon him. I was sorry to see the princess
                        in the pavilion, because I knew that if an untoward fate should befall Max,
                        a demonstration would surely follow in the ducal gallery.
                    At the gate of the true lists, Max was met by a priest, who heard his oath,
                        and by a herald, who read the laws and the agreement relating to the combat.
                        A court of heraldry had decided that three lances should be broken, after
                        which the champions, if both alive, should dismount and continue the fight
                        with battle-axes of whatever weight they might choose. If either knight
                        should be disabled, it was the other's right to kill him.
                    After Max had entered the true lists the gates were closed, and Hymbercourt,
                        myself, and our squires stood outside the barrier at the north end of the
                        false lists, — the north being Max's station on the course.
                    Max sat his charger, lance in rest; Calli waited in the south, and these two
                        faced each other with death between them.
                    When all was ready the heralds raised their banners, and the duke gave the
                        word of battle. There was a moment of deep silence, broken by the thunder of
                        tramping hoofs, as horses and men rushed upon each other. Calli and Max met
                        in mid-course, and the din of their contact was like the report of a cannon.
                        Each horse fell back upon its haunches; 
                        
                         each rider bent back upon his horse. Two
                        tough yule lances burst into a hundred splinters. Then silence ensued,
                        broken after a moment by a storm of applause from the pavilion.
                    The second course was like the first, save that Max nearly unhorsed Calli by
                        a marvellous helmet stroke. The stroke loosened Calli's helmet by breaking a
                        throat-strap, but neither he nor his friends seemed to notice the mishap,
                        and the third course was begun without remedying it. When the champions were
                        within ten yards of each other, a report like the discharge of an arquebuse
                        was heard, coming apparently from beneath the pavilion. I could not say
                        whence the report came — I was too intent upon the scene in the
                        lists to be thoroughly conscious of happenings elsewhere — but come
                        it did from somewhere, and Max's fine charger plunged forward on the lists,
                        dead. Max fell over his horse's head and lay half-stunned upon the
                        ground.
                    Above the din rose a cry, a frantic scream, that fairly pierced my heart.
                        Well I knew the voice that uttered it. The people in the pavilion rose to
                        their feet, and cries of "Treachery! treachery!" came from all directions.
                        Calli was evidently expecting the shot, for just before it came he reined in
                        his horse, and when Max fell the Italian instantly brought his charger to a
                        standstill and began to dismount with all the speed his heavy  armor would permit. When safely down, he
                        unclasped his battle-axe from the chain that held it to his girdle and
                        started toward Max, who was lying prone upon the ground. Cries of "Shame!
                        shame!" came from the pavilion, but no one, not even the duke, dared to
                        interfere; it was Calli's right to kill Max if he could.
                    I had covered my eyes with my hand, thinking that surely the boy's hour had
                        come. I removed my hand when I heard the scream, and I have thanked God ever
                        since for prompting me to do that little act, for I saw the most beautiful
                        sight that my eyes have ever beheld. Calli had reached his prostrate foe and
                        was standing over him with battle-axe uplifted to deal the blow of death. At
                        that same moment Yolanda sprang from the duke's side, cleared the low
                        railing in front of the ducal box, and jumped to the false lists six or
                        eight feet below. Her gown of scarlet and gold shone with dazzling radiance
                        in the sunlight.
                    Calli was facing the pavilion, and Yolanda's leap probably attracted his
                        attention. However that may have been — perhaps it was because of
                        Calli's haste, perhaps it was the will of God — the blow fell
                        short, and Calli's battle-axe, glancing from Max's helmet, buried itself in
                        the hard ground. While Calli was struggling to release his axe, Yolanda
                        cleared the low barrier of the true lists, sped across the intervening  space like a flash of red avenging flame, and
                        reached Max not one second too soon, for Calli's axe was again uplifted. She
                        fell upon Max, and had the axe descended she would have received the blow.
                        Calli stepped back in surprise, his heel caught on the toe of Max's iron
                        boot, he fell prone upon his back, and the weight of his armor prevented him
                        from rising quickly. The glancing blow on Max's helmet had roused him, and
                        when he moved Yolanda rose to her knees beside him.
                    "Let me help you," she cried, lifting Max's mailed hand to her shoulder; Max
                        did so, and by help of the frail girl he drew himself to his knees and then
                        to his feet. Meantime, Calli was attempting to rise. I can still see the
                        terrible picture. Calli's panting horse stood near by with drooping head.
                        Max's charger lay quivering in the convulsions of death. Calli, whose helmet
                        had dropped from his head when he fell, lay resting on his elbow, half risen
                        and bareheaded. Max stood deliberately taking his battle-axe from his girdle
                        chain, while Yolanda still knelt at his feet. Battle-axe in hand, Max
                        stepped toward Calli, who had risen to his knees. The expression on the
                        Italian's face I shall never forget. With bared head and upturned face he
                        awaited the death that he knew he deserved. Max lifted his battle-axe to
                        give the blow. I wondered if he would give it. He lowered the axe, and a
                        shout went up from the pavilion: —
                    
                    "Kill him! Kill him!"
                    He lifted the axe again, and a silence like the hush of death fell upon the
                        shouting audience. Again Max hesitated, and I distinctly heard Yolanda, who
                        was still upon her knees, whisper: —
                    "Kill him! Kill him!"
                    Then came the shouts of a thousand voices, thrilling me to the marrow:
                        —
                    "Kill him! Kill him!" and I knew that if I were standing in Max's shoes,
                        Calli would die within a moment. I also remember wondering in a flash of
                        thought if Max were great enough to spare him. Again the battle-axe came
                        slowly down, and the din in the pavilion was deafening: —
                    "Kill him! Kill him!"
                    Again the battle-axe rose; but after a pause, Max let it fall to the ground
                        behind him; and, turning toward the girl, lifted her with his mailed hands
                        to her feet. When she had risen Max looked into her face, and, falling back
                        a step, exclaimed in a voice hushed by wonder: —
                    "Yolanda!"
                    His words coming to the girl's ears, like a far-away sound, from the
                        cavernous recesses of his helmet, frightened her.
                    "No, no, my name is not Yolanda. You are mistaken. You do not know me. I
                        — I am the princess. You do not know me."
                    
                    Her words were prompted by two motives: she wished to remain unknown to Max,
                        and she feared lest her father should come to know that a great part of her
                        life was spent as a burgher girl. Her hands were clasped at her breast; her
                        face was as pale as a gray dawn; her breath came in feeble gusts, and her
                        words fell haltingly from her lips. She took two steps forward, her eyes
                        closed, and she began to fall. Max caught her and lifted her in his strong
                        arms. On great occasions persons often do trivial acts. With Yolanda held
                        tightly in the embrace of his left arm, Max stooped to the ground and picked
                        up his battle-axe with his right hand. Then he strode to the north end of
                        the lists and placed the girl in my arms.
                    "Yolanda," he said, intending to tell me of his fair burden.
                    "No, Max," I whispered, as he unfastened his helmet. "Not Yolanda, but the
                        princess. The two resemble each other greatly."
                    "Yolanda," returned Max, doggedly. "I know her as a mother knows her
                        first-born."
                    Not one hundred seconds had elapsed between the report of the arquebuse and
                        the placing of Yolanda in my arms; but hardly had Max finished speaking when
                        a dozen ladies crowded about us and took possession of the unconscious
                        princess.
                    After the duke had set on foot a search for the  man who had fired the arquebuse, he came down to the false lists and
                        stood with Hymbercourt and me, discussing the event. Campo-Basso said that
                        his heart was "sore with grief," and the Italians jabbered like monkeys. One
                        of them wanted to kiss Max for sparing his kinsman's life, but Max thrust
                        him off with a fierce oath. The young fellow was in an ugly mood, and if I
                        had been his enemy, I would sooner have crossed the path of a wounded lion
                        than his. He was slow to anger, but the treachery he had encountered had
                        raised all of Satan that was in him. Had he stood before Calli thirty
                        seconds longer that treacherous heart would have ceased to beat.
                    While we were standing in the false lists, speaking with the duke, an Italian
                        approached Max, bowed low, and said: —
                    "The noble Count Calli approaches to thank you for your mercy and to extol
                        your bravery."
                    Max turned his head toward the centre of the course, and saw Calli surrounded
                        by a crowd of jabbering friends who were leading him toward us. A black
                        cloud — a very mist from hell — came over Max's face. He
                        stooped and took his battle-axe from the ground. I placed my hand on the
                        boy's arm and warningly spoke his name: —
                    "Max!" After a pause I continued, "Leave murder to the Italians."
                    Max uttered a snort of disdain, but, as usual, he  took my advice. He turned to Campo-Basso, still grasping his
                        battle-axe: —
                    "Keep that fellow away from me," he said, pointing toward Calli. "My merciful
                        mood was brief. By the good God who gave me the villain's life, I will kill
                        him if he comes within reach of my axe."
                    An Italian ran to the men who had Calli in charge, and they turned at once
                        and hurried toward the south gate of the lists. All this action was very
                        rapid, consuming only a minute or two, and transpired in much less time than
                        it requires to tell of it.
                    While our squires were removing Max's armor, I heard the duke say:
                        —
                    "Arrest Calli. We will hold him until the shot is explained. If he was privy
                        to it, he shall hang or boil." Then the duke, placing his hand on Max's
                        shoulder, continued: "You are the best knight in Christendom, the bravest,
                        the most generous, and the greatest fool. Think you Calli would have spared
                        you, boy?"
                    "I am not Calli, my lord," said Max.
                    "You certainly are not," returned the duke.
                    Visions of trouble with France growing out of Yolanda's "t," and of a
                        subsequent union between Max and the princess, floated before my mind, even
                        amidst the din that surrounded me. Taking the situation by and large, I was
                        in an ecstasy of joy. Max's  victory was a
                        thousand triumphs in one. It was a triumph over his enemy, a triumph over
                        his friends, but, above all, a triumph over himself. He had proved himself
                        brave and merciful, and I knew that in him the world had a man who would
                        leave it better and happier than he found it.
                    Calli was arrested and brought to the duke's presence. Of course he denied
                        all knowledge of the shot that had killed Max's horse. Others were
                        questioned, including three Italian friars wearing cassocks and cowls, who
                        bore a most wondrous testimony.
                    "Your Grace," said one of the friars, "we three men of God can explain this
                        matter that so nearly touches the honor of our fair countryman, the noble
                        Count Calli."
                    "In God's name, do so," exclaimed the duke.
                    "This is the explanation, most gracious lord. When the third course was
                        preparing, we three men of God prayed in concert to God the Father,"
                        — all the friars crossed themselves, — "God the Son, and
                        God the Holy Ghost, to save our countryman, and lo! our prayers were most
                        graciously answered; for, noble lord, at the moment when this most valiant
                        knight was about to kill our friend, we each heard a report marvellously
                        like to the discharge of an arquebuse. At the same instant a fiery shaft
                        descended from the palm of a mighty hand in the heavens, and the horse of
                        this valiant and most generous knight, Sir Max, fell dead, stricken by the
                        hand of God."
                    
                    I had no doubt that this absurd explanation would be received with scorn and
                        derision; but the friar knew his audience, and I did not. His statement was
                        not really accepted as true, but it was not cast aside as utterly absurd. I
                        saw that it might easily be believed.
                    "Why did not others see your wondrous shaft from the hand of God?" I
                        asked.
                    "Because, noble lord," answered the friar, "our eyes were looking upward in
                        prayer. All others were fixed on this worldly combat."
                    The explanation actually seemed to explain.
                    Just then the men who had been sent out to seek evidence concerning the shot
                        returned, and reported that no arquebuse was to be found. The lists were
                        surrounded by an open field, and a man endeavoring to escape would have been
                        seen.
                    "Did you search all places of possible concealment for an arquebuse?" asked
                        the duke.
                    "All, my lord," answered the men, who were Burgundians and to be trusted.
                    Faith in the friar's absurd story was rapidly gaining ground, and several of
                        the Italian courtiers, emboldened by encouragement, affirmed upon their hope
                        of salvation and their knightly honor that they, too, had witnessed the
                        descent of the shaft from heaven. Touch a man on his superstitions, and he
                        will believe anything you tell him. If you assure him that an  honest friend has told you so and so, he may
                        doubt you, but tell him that God tells you, and he will swallow your hook.
                        If you would have your lie believed, tell a great one.
                    Charles, more credulous and gullible than I should have believed, turned to
                        Hymbercourt. He spoke reverentially, being, you understand, in the presence
                        of a miracle: —
                    "This is a wondrous happening, my lord," said the duke.
                    "If it happened, Your Grace," returned Hymber-court, "it certainly was
                        marvellous."
                    "Don't you think it did happen? Do not you believe that this bolt came from
                        the hand that was seen by these worthy friars?" asked the duke.
                    "The shaft surely did not come from a just God, my lord," returned
                        Hymbercourt.
                    "Whence, then, did it come?" asked the duke. "No arquebuse has been found,
                        and a careful scrutiny has been made."
                    "Aye!" echoed the friars. "Whence else did it come? Whence, my Lord
                        d'Hymbercourt, whence?"
                    I had noticed our Irish servant Michael standing near one of the friars. At
                        this point in the conversation the Irishman plucked me by the sleeve,
                        pointed to a friar, and whispered a word in my ear. Like a stone from a
                        catapult I sprang on the friar indicated, threw him to the ground, and drew
                        from under his black cassock an arquebuse.
                    
                    "Here is the shaft from God!" I exclaimed, holding the arquebuse up to view.
                        Then I kneeled on the prostrate wretch and clutched his throat. Anger
                        gathered in my brain as lightning clusters about a mountain top. I threw
                        aside the arquebuse and proceeded to kill the canting mendicant. I do not
                        know that I killed him; I hope I did. I cannot speak with certainty on that
                        point, for I was quickly thrown away from him by the avenging mob that
                        rushed upon us and tore the fellow limb from limb. The other friars were set
                        upon by the populace that had witnessed the combat from without the lists,
                        and were beaten so unmercifully that one of them died. Of the other's fate I
                        know nothing, but I have my secret desires.
                    "Kill the Italians! Murder the assassins! Down with the mercenaries," cried
                        the populace, who hated the duke's guard. The barriers were broken down, and
                        an interesting battle ensued. Surely the people got their full satisfaction
                        of blood and excitement that day. The Italians drew their swords, but, being
                        separated, they were at a disadvantage, though their assailants carried only
                        staves. I expected the duke to stop the fight, but he withdrew to a little
                        distance and watched it with evident interest. My interest was more than
                        evident; it was uproarious. I have never spent so enjoyable a day. The fight
                        raged after Max and I left, and there was many a sore  head and broken bone that night among the Italian mercenaries
                        of the Duke of Burgundy.
                    When Max and I returned to Peronne, we went to the noble church of St. Jean
                        and offered our humble gratitude. Max, having thrown off his anger, proposed
                        to buy a mass for the dead friar; but I was for leaving him in purgatory
                        where he belonged, and Max, as usual, took my advice.
                    On reaching the inn, Max cried loudly for supper. His calmness would have
                        done credit to a hardened warrior. There was at least one hardened warrior
                        that was not calm. I was wrought almost to a pitch of frenzy and could not
                        eat, though the supper prepared by Grote was a marvel in its way. The old
                        man, usually grave and crusty, after the manner of German hosts, actually
                        bent his knee to Max and said: —
                    "My poor house has entertained kings and princes; but never has it had so
                        great an honor as that which it now has in sheltering you."
                    That night the duke came with Hymbercourt to honor us at the inn. Each spoke
                        excitedly and warmly. Max seemed to be the only calm man in Peronne.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVIII
                    YOLANDA OR THE PRINCESS?
                    
                        AFTER these adventures we could no longer conceal Max's
                        identity, and it soon became noised about that he was Count of Hapsburg. But
                        Styria was so far away, and so little known, even to courtiers of
                        considerable rank, that the fact made no great stir in Peronne. To Frau Kate
                        and Twonette the disclosure came with almost paralyzing effect.
                    The duke remained with us until late in the night, so Max and I did not go
                        over to the House under the Wall. When we were alone in our room, Max
                        said:
                    "The Princess Mary has treated me as if I were a boy."
                    "She saved your life," I returned. "Calli would certainly have killed you had
                        she not acted quickly."
                    "I surely owe her my life," said Max, "though I have little knowledge of what
                        happened after I fell from my horse until I rose to my feet by her help. I
                        complain of her conduct in deceiving me by pretending to be a burgher
                        maiden. It was easily done, Karl, but ungraciously."
                    "You are now speaking of Yolanda," I said, not 
                        knowing what the wishes of the princess might be in regard to enlightening
                        him. He looked at me and answered: —
                    "Karl, if a woman's face is burned on a man's heart, he knows it when he sees
                        it."
                    "You know Yolanda's face, certainly, and I doubt if Yolanda will thank you
                        for mistaking another's for it."
                    "I have made no mistake, Karl," he answered.
                    "I am not so sure," I replied. "The girl you placed in my arms seemed taller
                        by half a head than Yolanda. I noticed her while she was standing. She
                        seemed rounder and much heavier in form; but I, too, thought she was
                        Yolanda, and, after all, you may be right."
                    "I caught but a glimpse of her face, and that poorly," said Max. "It is
                        difficult to see anything looking downward out of a helmet; one must look
                        straight ahead. But the glimpse I had of her face satisfied me."
                    "Do not be too sure, Max. I once took another man for myself." Max laughed.
                        "I am sure no one could have told us apart. He was the Pope, and I his
                        cousin. Yolanda herself once told me — I believe she has also told
                        you — that she has the honor to resemble the princess."
                    I did not wish to lie to Max, and you will note that I did not say the
                        princess was not Yolanda.  Still, I wished him
                        to remain ignorant upon the important question until Yolanda should see fit
                        to enlighten him. I was not sure of her motive in maintaining the alias,
                        though I was certain it was more than a mere whim. How great it was I could
                        not know. Should she persist in it I would help her up to the point of
                        telling Max a downright falsehood. There I would stop.
                    We spent two evenings at Castleman's, but did not see Yolanda. On the first
                        evening, after an hour of listlessness, Max hesitatingly asked:
                        —
                    "Where is Yo — that is, the princess has not been here this
                        evening."
                    "The princess!" exclaimed Frau Kate. "No, she has not been here this evening
                        — nor the duke, nor the king of France. No titled person, Sir
                        Count, save yourself, has honored us to-day. Our poor roof shelters few
                        such."
                    "I mean Yolanda," said Max. Good-natured Frau Kate laughed softly, and
                        Twonette said, with smiling serenity: —
                    "Yolanda's head will surely be turned, Sir Count, when she hears you have
                        called her the princess. So much greatness thrust upon her will make it
                        impossible for us to live with her."
                    "She rules us all as it is, sweet soul," said Castleman.
                    "Yolanda is ill upstairs, Sir Count," said Frau  Kate. "She wanted to come down this evening, but I commanded otherwise.
                        Twonette, go to her. She will be lonely."
                    Twonette rose, courtesied, and departed. This splendid bit of acting almost
                        made me doubt that Yolanda was the princess, and it shook Max's conviction
                        to its very foundation.
                    I wish to warn you that the deception practised upon Max by Yolanda will seem
                        almost impossible, except on the hypothesis that Max was a very simple
                        fellow. But the elaborate scheme designed and executed by this girl, with
                        the help of the Castlemans and myself, — all of whom Max had no
                        reason to distrust, — would have deceived any man. Max, though
                        simple and confiding where he trusted, — judging others' good faith
                        by his own, — was shrewd for his years, and this plan of Yolanda's
                        had to be faultless, as it really was, to mislead him.
                    On the morning of the fourth day after the trial by combat, Yolanda made her
                        appearance at Castleman's, looking pale and large-eyed. Max and I had walked
                        down to the House under the Wall before going to dine with the duke. Soon
                        after we were seated Twonette left, and within five minutes Yolanda came
                        suddenly upon us in the long parlor. She ran to Max, grasping both his
                        hands. For a moment she could only say, "Max, Max," and he remained
                        silent.
                    When she recovered control of her voice she said: —
                    
                    "How proud we are of you, Sir Max! Uncle and aunt have told me how brave and
                        merciful you were at the combat."
                    "Your Highness surely knows all that can be told on the subject, since you
                        were there and took so active a part in the adventure," answered Max. "It is
                        I who should be grateful, and I am. I owe my life to Your Highness."
                    "You honor me too much, Sir Max," said Yolanda, looking up with surprise and
                        bowing low before him. "Let my elevation be gradual that I may grow
                        accustomed to my rank. Make of me first a great lady, and then, say, a
                        countess. Afterward, if I prove worthy, call me princess."
                    "We will call you a princess now, Your Highness," answered Max, not to be
                        driven from his position.
                    "Very well," cried Yolanda, with a laugh and a sweeping courtesy. "If you
                        will have me a princess, a princess I'll be. But I will not be the Princess
                        of Burgundy. She saved your life, and I am jealous of her — I hate
                        her."
                    She stamped her foot, and the angry gleam in her eyes was genuine. There
                        could be no doubt that she was jealous of the princess. I could not account
                        for her unique attitude toward herself save on one hypothesis: she was, even
                        to herself, two distinct persons. Yolanda was a happy burgher girl; Mary was
                        a wretched princess. The two widely differing 
                        conditions under which she lived were so distinct, and were separated by a
                        gulf so broad, that to her the princess and the burgher girl were in no way
                        related.
                    With change of condition there was always a change of person. The unhappy
                        princess would come down the stairway in the wall; God would kindly touch
                        her, and lo! she was transformed into a happy Yolanda. Yolanda's light feet
                        would climb the dark stone steps, and God was once more a frowning father.
                        There must also be added Max's share in her emotions. Perhaps she feared the
                        princess as she would have dreaded a rival; since she longed with all her
                        passionate, tender heart to win Max for herself only. It would have been an
                        easy task, as princess, to win him or any man; but if she could win him as
                        Yolanda, the burgher girl, the prize would be the greatest that could fall
                        to a woman.
                    The true situation dawned upon me as I stood before Max and watched Yolanda.
                        I thought of her adroit plan to make trouble with France, and I wanted to
                        shout for joy. The impossible might yet happen. God's hand surely had been
                        in our journeying to Burgundy. Max might yet win this peerless princess,
                        this priceless girl; or, reverse it if you choose, Mary of Burgundy might
                        win this peerless man, and might at the same time attain the unutterable joy
                        of knowing that she had won him for her own sake.
                    
                    Perhaps her yearning had led her to hope that he might in the end be willing
                        to fling behind him his high estate for the sake of a burgher girl. Then,
                        when she had brought him to that resolution, what a joy it would be to turn
                        upon him and say: "I am not a burgher girl. I am Princess Mary of Burgundy,
                        and all these things which you are willing to forego for my sake you may
                        keep, and you may add to them the fair land of Burgundy!" Her high estate
                        and rich domains, now the tokens of her thralldom, would then be her joy,
                        since she could give them to Max.
                    While these bright hopes were filling my mind, Yolanda was playing well her
                        part. She, too, evidently meant to tell no lies, though she might be forced
                        to act many. Her fiery outburst against the Princess of Burgundy astonished
                        Max and almost startled me. Still, the conviction was strong with him that
                        Yolanda was Mary.
                    "If — if you are the princess, Yo — Yolanda," said Max,
                        evidently wavering, "it were ungracious to deceive me."
                    "But I am the princess," cried Yolanda, lifting her head
                        and walking majestically to and fro. "Address me not by that low, plebeian
                        name, Yolanda."
                    She stepped upon a chair and thence to the top of the great oak table that
                        stood in the middle of the room. Drawing the chair up after her she placed
                             it on the table, and, seating herself on
                        this improvised throne, lifted one knee over the other, after the manner of
                        her father. She looked serenely about her in a most amusing imitation of the
                        duke, and spoke with a deep voice:—
                    "Heralds!"
                    No one responded. So she filled the office of herald herself and cried
                        out:—
                    "Oyez! Oyez! The princess now gives audience!" Resuming the ducal voice, she
                        continued, "Are there complaints, my Lord Seneschal?" A pause. "Ah, our
                        guards have stolen Grion's cow, have they? The devil take Grion and his cow,
                        too! Hang Grion for complaining." A pause ensues while the duke awaits the
                        next report. "The Swiss have stolen a sheepskin? Ah, we'll skin the Swiss.
                        My Lord Seneschal, find me fifty thousand men who are ready to die for a
                        sheepskin. Body of me! A sheep-skin! I do love it well."
                    Yolanda's audience was roaring with laughter by this time, but her face was
                        stern and calm.
                    "Silence, you fools," she cried hoarsely, but no one was silent, and Max
                        laughed till the tears came to his eyes. Yolanda on her throne was so
                        irresistibly bewitching that he ran to her side, grasped her about the
                        waist, and unceremoniously lifted her to the floor. When she was on her
                        feet, he raised her hand to his lips and kissed it, saying:—
                    
                    "Yolanda or Mary — it's all one to me. There is not another like you
                        in all the world."
                    She drew herself up haughtily: "Sir, this indignity shall cost you dear," and
                        turning her back on him she moved away three or four paces. Then she stopped
                        and glanced over her shoulder. His face had lost its smile, and she knew the
                        joke had gone far enough; so the dimples began to cluster about the
                        quivering corners of her mouth, the long black lashes fell for a moment, a
                        soft radiance came to her eyes, and she asked:—
                    "Which shall it be, Sir Max, Yolanda or the princess?"
                    "Yolanda," cried Max, huskily, while he held out his hands to her. Quick as
                        the movement of a kitten, she sprang to him and allowed his arms to close
                        about her for one brief moment. While one might count ten she rested her
                        head on his breast, but all too quickly she turned her face to his and
                        whispered:—
                    "Are you sure? Is it Yolanda?"
                    "Yes, yes, Yolanda. Thank God! it is Yolanda," he replied, placing his hand
                        before his eyes. She slipped from his arms, and Max, too deeply moved to
                        speak, walked over to the window and looked out upon the frowning walls of
                        Peronne the Impregnable. There was irony for you!
                    Probably Max was not sure that Yolanda was Yolanda; but, if he was,
                        conviction had come  through his emotions, and
                        it might be temporary. He was, however, soon to be convinced by evidence so
                        cunningly constructed that he was compelled to abandon the testimony of his
                        own eyes and accept that of seemingly incontestable facts.
                    "We are to dine privately with the duke at twelve o'clock," I said, while Max
                        was standing at the window.
                    "Indeed?" asked Yolanda, arching her eyebrows; surprise and displeasure
                        evident in her voice. She glanced at the great clock, then looked toward
                        Max, and said:—
                    "It lacks but thirty minutes of that time now, and I suppose I shall soon
                        lose you."
                    Max turned from the window, saying:—
                    "Yes, we must go, or we shall be late."
                    "Does the princess dine with you?" asked Yolanda.
                    "I do not know, Fräulein," answered Max. There-upon Yolanda left the room
                        pouting, and we took our departure, having promised to return to Castleman's
                        after dinner.
                    We went at once to the castle; and thirty minutes after leaving Castleman's
                        we were in the small parlor or talking room of Duchess Margaret, where the
                        famous letter to the king of France had been signed by Duke Charles. When we
                        entered we saw the duchess and the princess sitting upon the divan.  The duke was in his great oak chair, and
                        Hymber-court and two other gentlemen were standing near by. I made obeisance
                        to Charles on bended knee. He rose to receive Max, and, after a slight
                        hesitation, offered his hand, saying:—
                    "You are welcome, my Lord Count."
                    A year had passed since I had heard Max addressed as "my lord," and the words
                        sounded strange to my ears. I turned quickly toward the princess, expecting
                        to see a sparkle of mirth in her eyes, but Yolanda's ever present smile was
                        wholly lacking. The countenance of the princess was calm, immovable, and
                        expressionless as a mirror. I could hardly believe that it was the radiant,
                        bedimpled, pouting face I had just seen at Castleman's, and for the first
                        time in all my experience I realized that I was face to face with a dual
                        personality. The transformation was so complete that I might easily have
                        been duped had I not known beyond peradventure the identity of Yolanda and
                        Mary.
                    After the duke had kindly saluted Max, His Grace presented us to the ladies.
                        When the princess rose to receive us, she seemed at least half a head taller
                        than Yolanda. Her hair was hidden, and her face seemed fuller. These changes
                        were probably wrought by her head-dress, which towered in two great curved
                        horns twelve inches high. She wore a long, flowing gown that trailed two
                        yards behind her, and this  added to her
                        apparent height. Max had seen Yolanda only in the short skirts of a burgher
                        girl's costume.
                    When Max rose, after kneeling before the princess, he gazed into her eyes,
                        but the glance he received in hot and strong; the princess was cold, clear
                        water. The one was exhilarating, at times intoxicating; the other was
                        chilling. The face of the princess, though beautiful, was touched with
                        disdain. Every attitude was one of dignity and hauteur. Her words, and her
                        voice was that of her father's daughter. Yolanda was a girl; the princess
                        was a woman. The metamorphosis was complete, and Max's hallucination, I felt
                        sure, would be cured. The princess's face was not burned on his heart,
                        whatever might be true of Yolanda's. I can give no stronger testimony to the
                        marvellous quality of the change this girl had wrought in herself than to
                        tell you that even I began to doubt, and wonder if Yolanda had tricked me.
                        The effect on Max was instantaneous. After looking into the princess's face,
                        he said:—
                    "I wish to thank Your Highness for saving my life. I surely had been killed
                        but for your timely help."
                    The situation bordered on the ridiculous.
                    "Do not thank me, my Lord Count," responded the princess, in cold and
                        measured words. "I should have done the same for any man in your hard case.
                             I once saved a yokel in like manner. Two
                        common men were fighting with staves. One would have beaten the other to
                        death had I not entered the lists and parted them. Father feared a similar
                        exhibition on my part and did not wish me to attend your combat. He says now
                        that I shall go to no more. I certainly made myself ridiculous. I enjoy a
                        fair fight, whatever the outcome may be, but I despise murder. My act was
                        entirely impersonal, Sir Count."
                    "On the lists I addressed Your Highness as 'Yolanda,'" said Max. "Your
                        resemblance to one whom I know well was so great as to deceive me."
                    I was eager to take Max away from the dangerous situation, but I could not.
                        The duke, the courtiers, and myself had moved several paces from Max and the
                        princess. I, however, kept my eyes and ears open to what occurred between
                        them.
                    "Yes," returned the princess, haughtily, "I remember you so addressed me. I
                        have heard of the person to whom you refer. She is, I believe, a niece of
                        one Castleman, a burgher of Peronne. I know Castle-man's daughter—a
                        simple creature, with no pretence of being else. It has been said that
                        — what do they call her? Yolanda, I believe — resembles me
                        in some respects and is quite proud of the distinction. I am sure I thank no
                        one for the compliment, since she is a low creature, but I accept your
                        apology, my Lord Count."
                    
                    "I do not apologize, Your Highness," answered Max, in tones of equal hauteur.
                        "You probably do not know the lady of whom you speak."
                    The princess seemed to increase by an inch or two in stature as she drew
                        herself up, and answered:—
                    "Of course we do not know her."
                    "If you knew her, Your Highness would apologize," retorted Max.
                    Seeing the angry color mounting to his face, I stepped to his side and joined
                        in the conversation. Presently dinner was announced, and I rejoiced when we
                        parted from the princess. Turning our faces toward the ladies, we moved
                        backward from the room, and went with the duke to the dinner hall.
                    Compared with Castleman's daily fare, the duke's dinner was almost
                        unpalatable. We had coarse beef, coarse boar's meat, coarse bread,
                        — not black, but brown. Frau Kate's bread was like snow. The sour
                        wine on the duke's table set our teeth on edge, though it was served in huge
                        golden goblets studded with rare gems. At each guest's plate was a jewelled
                        dagger. The tablecloth was of rich silk, soiled by numberless stains. Leeks
                        and garlic were the only vegetables served.
                    Nothing of importance occurred at the table, but after dinner the duke
                        abruptly offered Max a large sum of gold to accompany him to Switzerland.
                        Max thanked His Grace and said he would give him an  answer soon. The duke urged an early reply, and Max
                        said:—
                    "With Your Grace's permission we will attend tomorrow's morning audience, and
                        will make our answer after Your Lordship has risen."
                    Charles acquiesced, and we soon left the castle. The duke, as I have already
                        told you, was very rich. Hymbercourt once told me that he had two hundred
                        and fifty thousand gold crowns in his coffers at Luxembourg. That was
                        probably more than the combined treasuries of any two kings in Europe could
                        show. Max and I were short of money, and the sum that the duke offered
                        seemed enormous. Neither Max nor his father, Duke Frederick, had ever
                        possessed as much money at one time.
                    While we were leisurely walking across the court-yard toward the Postern,
                        three ladies and two gentlemen, accompanied by outriders and pages carrying
                        falcons, rode by us and passed out through the Postern. We followed, and
                        overtook them at the town end of the drawbridge, where they had halted. When
                        we came up to them, we recognized the duchess and the princess. The duchess
                        bowed smilingly, but the princess did not speak, though she looked in our
                        direction.
                    The cavalcade turned to the left, and went up a narrow street toward Cambrai
                        Gate, evidently bound for the marshes. Max and I walked straight ahead
                        toward the Cologne bridge, intending, as we had  promised, to go back to Castleman's. Two hundred yards up the street I
                        glanced back, and saw a lady riding through the Postern, back to the castle.
                        I knew at once that the princess had returned, and I was sure of meeting
                        Yolanda, — sweet, smiling, tender Yolanda, — at the dear
                        old House under the Wall. I did not like the princess; she was cold,
                        haughty, supercilious, and perhaps tinged with her father's cruelty. I
                        longed ardently for Yolanda to come out of her skin, and my heart leaped
                        with joy at the early prospect.
                    I was right in my surmise. Yolanda's sweet face, radiant with smiles and soft
                        with dimples, was pressed against the window-pane watching for us when we
                        crossed the moat bridge at Castleman's door.
                    "To see her face again is like coming back to heaven; isn't it, Karl?" said
                        Max.
                    Yolanda ran to the door and opened it.
                    "I am glad you did not stay with her," she said, giving a hand to Max and to
                        me, and walking into the room between us. She was like a child holding our
                        hands.
                    I had seen the world and its people in all its phases, and I prided myself on
                        my shrewdness, but without my knowledge of the stairway in the wall, I would
                        have sworn that Yolanda had played a trick on me by leading me to believe
                        that she was the  Princess Mary. Even with
                        full knowledge of all the facts, I found myself doubting. It is small cause
                        for wonder, therefore, that Max was deceived.
                    "Uncle is at the shop," said Yolanda. "Tante is at a neighbor's, and
                        Twonette, of course, is asleep. We three will sit here on this bench with no
                        one to disturb us, and I shall have you both all to myself. No! There! I'll
                        sit between you. Now, this is delightful."
                    She sat between us, crossed her knees — an unpardonable crime, Frau
                        Kate would have thought — and giving a hand to Max and to me, said
                        contentedly:—
                    "Now, tell me all about it."
                    I was actually on the point of beginning a narrative of our adventures, just
                        as if she did not already know them, — so great was the spell she
                        had thrown over me, — when Max spoke:—
                    "We had a poor dinner, but a kind host, there-fore a fine feast. The duke has
                        asked us to go to Switzerland with him. Judging by the enormous sum he
                        offers for our poor services, he must believe that he will need no other
                        help to conquer the Swiss."
                    "Yes — yes, that is interesting," said Yolanda, hastily, "but the
                        princess — tell me of her."
                    "She is a very beautiful princess," answered Max.
                    "Yes — I suppose she is," answered Yolanda. "I  have it dinned into my ears till I ought to believe it; but
                        tell me of her manner, her conversation, her temper. What of them?"
                    "She is a most beautiful princess," answered Max, evidently intending to
                        utter no word against Her Highness, though as a matter of fact he did not
                        like her at all. "I am sure she deserves all the good that fame speaks of
                        her."
                    Yolanda flung our hands from her, sprang to her feet, and faced us
                        angrily.
                    "That's the way with all men. A rich princess, even though she be a cold
                        devil, is beautiful and good and gentle and wise and true and quick of wit.
                        Men care not what she is if her house be great and rich and powerful. If her
                        domains are fat and broad, she deserves 'all the good that fame speaks of
                        her.' She can win no man for herself. She cannot touch a man's heart; she
                        can only satisfy his greed. You went to the castle, Sir Max, to see this
                        princess. You want Burgundy. That is why you are in Peronne!"
                    The girl's passionate outburst was sincere, and showed me her true motive for
                        deceiving Max. Her plan was not the outgrowth of a whim; it was the result
                        of a tremendous motive conceived in the depths of her soul. She had found
                        the man she loved, and was talking her own way to win him, if she could, for
                        herself. She judged all men by the standard that  she had just announced. She would never believe in the love of
                        a man who should woo her as Princess Mary of Burgundy.
                    Her words came near accomplishing more than she desired. When she stopped
                        speaking, Max leaned forward and gently took her hand.
                    "Yolanda, this princess is nothing to me, and I swear to you that I will
                        never ask her to marry —"
                    A frightened gleam came to the girl's eyes when she understood the oath that
                        Max was about to take, and she quickly placed her hand over his mouth. Max
                        was swearing too much.
                    "You shall not make that oath, Little Max," she said. "You shall not say that
                        you will never marry her, nor shall you say that you will never marry any
                        one else. You must remain free to choose the right wife when the right time
                        comes. You must tread the path that God has marked out for you. Perhaps it
                        leads to this princess; no one can tell. If so, you must accept your fate,
                        Sir Max." She sighed at the mere thought of so untoward a fate for Max.
                    "I need make no oath not to marry the princess," answered Max. "She is beyond
                        my reach, even though I were dying for love of her."
                    "And you are not dying for love of her, are you?" asked Yolanda, again taking
                        the seat between Max and me.
                    "No," he responded.
                    
                    "Nor for love of any woman?" she asked, looking toward Max.
                    "I'll not say that," he replied, laughing softly, and taking her hands
                        between his.
                    "No, no," she mused, looking in revery out the window. "No, we will not say
                        that."
                    I have always been as unsentimental as a man well can be, but I believe, had
                        I been in Max's place, I should have thrown away my crown for the sake of
                        Yolanda, the burgher girl. I remember wondering if Max would be strong
                        enough finally to reach the same conclusion. If he should be, my faith in
                        Yolanda's powers led me to believe that she would contrive a plan to make
                        him her husband, despite her father, or the devil and all his imps.
                    There is a power of finesse in the feminine mind that no man may fully
                        compass, and Yolanda, in that respect, was the flower of her sex. That she
                        had been able to maintain her humble personality with Max, despite the fact
                        that she had been compelled to meet him twice as princess, proved her
                        ability. Of course, she had the help of good old Castleman and his sweet
                        Frau Kate, serene Twonette, and myself; but with all this help she probably
                        would have failed without the stairway in the wall.
                    When we left Castleman's, I did not bring up the subject of Mary and Yolanda.
                        Max walked silently beside me until we had nearly reached the inn, when he
                        said:—
                    
                    "I am almost glad I was wrong, Karl. I would not have Yolanda other than she
                        is. At times, wild thoughts suggest themselves to me; but I am not so weak
                        as to give way to them. I drive them off and clench my teeth, determined to
                        take the misery God doles out to me. I am glad we are soon to leave
                        Burgundy. The duke marches in three days, and it is none too soon for
                        me."
                    "Shall not we return to Burgundy?" I asked. "I want you to see Paris and
                        Brussels, and, if possible, London before we return to Styria. Don't you
                        think it best that we come back to Peronne after this war?"
                    "You are right, Karl; we must come back," he answered. "I do not fear.
                        Yolanda. I am not weak."
                    "I sometimes wonder if we know our strength from our weakness," I suggested.
                        "There is doubtless much energy wasted by conscientious men striving in the
                        wrong direction, who fancy they are doing their duty."
                    "You would not have me marry Yolanda?" asked Max, a gleam of light coming to
                        his eyes.
                    "I do not know, Max," I responded. "A rare thing has happened to you. You
                        have won a marvellous love from a marvellous woman. She takes no pains to
                        conceal it. She could not hide it if she would. What you feel, only you and
                        God know."
                    
                    "Only God," cried Max, huskily. "Only God. I cannot measure it."
                    "My dear boy," said I, taking his arm, "you are at a point where you must
                        decide for yourself."
                    "I have decided," returned Max. "If my father and mother were not living, I
                        might — I might — bah! there is but one life for me. I am
                        doomed. I make myself wretched by resistance."
                    "When we return to Peronne, you will know your mind," I answered
                        soothingly.
                    "I know my mind now," he answered. "I know that I would give half the years
                        of my life to possess Yolanda; but I also know the fate that God has marked
                        out for me."
                    "Then you know more than many a wise man thrice your age can boast," said
                        I.
                    The duke's armies had been gathering throughout Burgundy. Men had come in
                        great numbers to camp near Peronne, and the town was noisy with martial
                        preparations. Contrary to Hymbercourt's advice, the duke was leaving Peronne
                        Castle guarded by only a small garrison. Charles had great faith in the
                        strength of Peronne the Impregnable, and, although it was near the French
                        border, he trusted in its strength and in his treaty with King Louis. He
                        knew from experience that a treaty with Louis would bind that crafty monarch
                        only so long as it was to  his interest to
                        remain bound; but Louis' interest in maintaining the treaty seemed greater
                        than Burgundy's, and Charles rested on that fact. Peronne was to be left
                        captained by the duchess and Mary, and garrisoned by five score men-at-arms,
                        who were either too old or too young to go to war.
                    Without discussing the duke's offer, Max and I decided to accept it, though
                        for different reasons. Max needed the gold; he also sniffed battle, and
                        wanted the excitement and the enterprise of war. I had all his reasons, and
                        still another; I wanted to give Yolanda time to execute her plans.
                    The war with Switzerland would probably be short. Max would be with the duke,
                        and would, I hoped, augment the favor with which Charles already honored
                        him. Should Yolanda's letter make trouble with France, Duke Charles might be
                        induced, through his personal feelings, to listen to Max's suit. If Charles
                        returned from Switzerland victorious — and no other outcome seemed
                        possible — he would no longer have reason to carry out the marriage
                        treaty with France. It had been made largely for the purpose of keeping
                        Louis quiet while Charles was absent. Anything might happen; everything
                        might happen, while Max was with Charles in Switzerland and Yolanda at home
                        making trouble with France.
                    The next day, by appointment, we waited on the duke at the morning audience.
                        When we entered  the great hall, the urgent
                        business had been transacted, and half a score of lords and gentlemen stood
                        near the dais, discussing some topic with the duke and with one another. We
                        moved near the throne, and I heard Charles say to Campo-Basso and
                        Hymbercourt:—
                    "Almost three weeks have passed since our message to France, and we have had
                        no answer. What think you, gentlemen, of the delay?"
                    "His Majesty is not in Paris, or delays answering," said Hymbercourt.
                    "By the Host, if I could think that King Louis were holding Byron and
                        delaying an answer, I would change my plans and march on Paris rather than
                        on Switzerland."
                    "I fear, my lord," said Campo-Basso, with a sympathetic desire to make
                        trouble, if possible, "that His Majesty delays an answer while he frames one
                        that shall be elusive, yet conciliatory. King Louis, Your Grace knows,
                        thinks many times before each word he speaks or writes."
                    "If he has intentionally delayed this answer, I'll give him cause to think
                        many times after his words," said Charles.
                    Conversations of like nature had occurred on several occasions since the
                        sending of the missive to Louis, and they offered the stormy duke
                        opportunity to vent his boastfulness and spleen. While Charles was pouring
                             out his wrath against his brother-in-law,
                        Byron, the herald, appeared at the door of the great hall. He announced
                        himself, and, when ordered to approach, ran to the dais, kneeled on the
                        second step, and placed a small sealed packet in the duke's hand.
                    "Did you find King Louis at Paris?" asked the duke, addressing Byron.
                    "I did, my lord."
                    "Paris is but thirty leagues distant, and you certainly have had sufficient
                        time since leaving us to journey across Europe and back. Did not I command
                        you to make haste?"
                    "You did, my lord," answered the herald. "King Louis put me off from day to
                        day, always promising me an answer, but giving it only yesterday afternoon
                        when the sun was half below the horizon."
                    Charles nervously broke the seals of the package, and attempted to read the
                        letter. He failed, and handed it to Campo-Basso, saying: —
                    "Read the missive. I already know its contents, but read, my lord, read."
                    Campo-Basso read the letter.
                    "To Our Most Illustrious Brother Charles Duke of Burgundy, and Count of
                        Charolois:—
                    "We recommend us and send Your Grace greeting. We are anxious to pleasure our
                        noble brother of Burgundy in all things, and heartily desire the marriage
                        between  our son and the illustrious Princess
                        of Burgundy, but we shall not move toward it until our said noble brother
                        shall return from Switzerland, nor will we do aught to distract his
                        attention from the perilous business he now has on hand. We pray that the
                        saints may favor his design, and would especially recommend that our noble
                        brother propitiate with prayers and offerings the holy Saint Hubert. We,
                        ourselves, have importuned this holy saint, and he has proved marvellously
                        helpful on parlous occasions.
                    "LOUIS, R."
                    The duke's anger was terrible and disgusting to behold. When his transports
                        of rage allowed him to speak, he broke forth with oaths too blasphemous to
                        write on a white page.
                    "The fawning hypocrite!" he cried. "He thinks to cozen us with his cheap
                        words. The biting insult in his missive is that he takes it for granted that
                        we are so great a fool as to believe him. Even his recommendation of a saint
                        is a lie. The world knows his favorite saint is Saint Andrew. King Louis
                        spends half his time grovelling on his marrow bones before that saint and
                        the Blessed Virgin. He recommends to us Saint Hubert, believing that his
                        holy saintship will be of no avail."
                    Charles was right. Sir Philip de Comines, seneschal to King Louis, afterward
                        told me that His  Majesty, in writing this
                        letter to the Duke of Burgundy, actually took counsel and devoted much time
                        and thought to the choice of a baneful or impotent saint to recommend to his
                        "noble brother of Burgundy." Disaster to Louis had once followed
                        supplication to Saint Hubert, and the king hoped that the worthy saint might
                        prove equally unpropitious for Charles. Yolanda's wonderful "t" was
                        certainly the most stupendous single letter ever quilled. Here were the
                        first-fruits of it.
                    "Were it not that these self-sufficient Swiss need to be blooded, I would
                        turn my army against France to-morrow," said the duke.
                    "And have Bourbon and Lorraine upon Your Lordship's back from the east, Ghent
                        rebelling in the north, and the Swiss pouring in from the south,"
                        interrupted Hymbercourt.
                    "You are certainly right, my Lord d'Hymbercourt," replied Charles, sullenly.
                        "They surround us like a pack of starved wolves, ready to spring upon us the
                        moment we are crippled. Burgundy stands alone against all Europe."
                    "A vast treasure, my lord, attracts thieves," said Hymbercourt. "Burgundy is
                        the richest land on earth."
                    "It is, indeed it is," replied the duke, angrily, "and I have no son to keep
                        it after me. But France shall not have it; that I swear upon my knighthood.
                             Write to France, my Lord Bishop of
                        Cambrai, and tell King Louis that my daughter shall not marry his son. Waste
                        no words, my Lord Bishop, in what you call courtesy. We need no double
                        meaning in our missives."
                    Those who heard the duke's words knew that he was committing a costly error,
                        but no one dared to suggest as much. One might, with equal success, have
                        flung soft words at a mad bull. Truly that "t" — but I will speak
                        of it no more, though I have a thrill of joy and mirth even now when I think
                        of it.
                    After many explosions, the duke's pent-up wrath found vent, and began to
                        subside. Espying Max and me he called us to the throne.
                    "Have you concluded to join us in our little holiday excursion against these
                        mountain swine?" asked His Grace, addressing us.
                    "We have, my lord. We shall be proud to serve under the banner of so brave a
                        prince," I answered.
                    "'We have' would have been sufficient, Sir Karl," answered the duke, still
                        surly from the dregs of his wrath. "We hear so many soft words from France
                        that we despise them in the mouths of honest men."
                    The duke then turned to his seneschal, De Vergy, and spoke in tones that were
                        heard all over the room:—
                    "My lord, Maximilian, Count of Hapsburg, and Sir Karl de Pitti have consented
                        to join our banners.  Enroll them in places of
                        honor, my Lord Seneschal. See that they are supplied with horses,
                        accoutrements, and tents for themselves and their squires, and direct my
                        Lord Treasurer to pay to them upon demand a sum of money of which he shall
                        be duly notified."
                    When the duke stopped speaking, a murmur of approval ran through the
                        audience—though the Italians had no part in it. The murmur grew
                        clamorous and soon a mighty shout filled the vaulted roof:—
                    "Long life to the noble Count of Hapsburg! Burgundy and Styria forever!"
                    To me, the words seemed delightfully prophetic. Soon afterward the audience
                        was dismissed, and Max and I had the great honor of being asked to join the
                        duke's council. A council to the Duke of Burgundy was indeed a veritable
                        fifth wheel. He made his own plans and, right or wrong, clung to them. He
                        would, on rare occasions, listen to Hymbercourt, — a man of few
                        words, who gave advice as if he were lending a crown, — but the
                        suggestions of others antagonized him.
                    The question before the council this morning was: Should the duke's army
                        carry provisions, or should it take them from the countries through which it
                        was to pass? Charles favored the latter course, and it was agreed upon. The
                        people of non-belligerent states should be paid for the provisions that were
                             taken; that is, theoretically they should
                        be paid. The Swiss should furnish provision, gratis, and that doubtless
                        would be terribly practical.
                    On each of the three evenings intervening between the day of this council and
                        the departure of the army, we saw Yolanda at Castleman's. She was always
                        waiting when we arrived. She had changed in many respects, but especially in
                        her attitude regarding Max. She was kind and gentle, but shy. Having dropped
                        her familiar manner, she did not go near him, but sat at a distance, holding
                        Twonette's hand, and silently but constantly watching him, as if she were
                        awaiting something. Her eyes, at times, seemed to be half-indignant
                        interrogation points. At other times I could see in them doubt, waiting, and
                        hope — hope almost tired with yearning.
                    It was no small love that she wanted from Max. She had hoped —
                        perhaps I should say she had longed with little hope — that he
                        would, for the sake of the burgher girl, Yolanda, be willing to turn his
                        back on his family and his land. But now he was leaving, and her dream was
                        about to close, since Max would probably never come back to her.
                    Not the least painful of Yolanda's emotions was the knowledge that she could
                        insure Max's return by telling him that she was the Princess of Burgundy.
                        But she did not want this man whom she loved so dearly, and who, she knew,
                        loved her, if she must  win him as princess.
                        She was strangely impelled to reject a reprieve from a life of wretchedness,
                        unless it came through the high court of love.
                    Max, in speaking to me about his return, had wavered many times. One day he
                        would return; the next, he would swallow the bitter draught fate had in
                        store for him. He was a great, honest soul, and to such the call of duty is
                        compelling.
                    On the evening before our departure we went to sup with Castleman. On our way
                        down to the House under the Wall, Max said: —
                    "Karl, my duty is clear. I must not return to Peronne. If I do, I fear I
                        shall never leave it."
                    I did not answer; but I had resolved that he should return, and I intended
                        that my resolution should become a fact. Yolanda was not present at supper,
                        but she appeared soon after we had risen. We sat under the dim light of a
                        lamp in the long room. Yolanda was on the cushioned bench in the shadow of
                        the great chimney, silently clasping Twonette's hand. Twonette, of course,
                        was silent and serene. Castleman and I talked disjointedly, and Max sat
                        motionless, gazing through the window into the night. After greeting us,
                        Yolanda spoke not a word; but ever in the deep shadow I could see the glow
                        of her eyes looking toward Max. That his heart was filled with a great
                        struggle, I knew, and I believed that Yolanda also knew.
                    
                    We had many preparations to make before our departure next morning at dawn,
                        so after an hour Max and I rose to leave. Twonette, leaving Yolanda, came to
                        us, and the Castlemans all gave us a hearty God-speed. Yolanda sat wordless
                        in the shadow. I went to her and gave her my hand.
                    "Farewell, Fräulein," I said.
                    Max followed me closely, and I stepped aside to make way for him. The girl
                        rose and stood irresolute before him. I went to the Castlemans, who were
                        standing at a distance.
                    "Fräulein —" said Max. But she interrupted him, extending her hands,
                        which he clasped.
                    "Have you no word for me, Sir Max?" she asked pathetically, tears springing
                        to her eyes. "Are you coming back to me? Have you the right to come into my
                        life as you have done, and to leave me? Does God impose but one duty on you
                        — that of your birth?"
                    "Ah, Fräulein," answered Max, huskily, "you know — you know what I
                        suffer."
                    "I surely do know," she responded, "else I would not speak so plainly. But
                        answer me, Sir Max. Answer my question. It is my right to know upon what I
                        may depend. Will you come back to me?"
                    The imperious will of the princess had come to the rescue of Yolanda, the
                        burgher girl.
                    Max paused before speaking, then grasped her hands fiercely and answered:
                        —
                    
                    "Before God, Fräulein, I will come back to you, if I live."
                    Yolanda sank upon the cushioned bench, covered her face with her hands, and
                        the pent-up storm of sobs and tears broke forth as Max and I passed out the
                        door.
                    Yolanda had won.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIX
                    MAX GOES TO WAR
                    
                        THE next morning at dawn our army marched. Although Duke
                        Charles would not encumber himself with provisions for his men, he carried a
                        vast train of carts filled with plate, silk tents, rich rugs, and precious
                        jewels; for, with all his bravery, this duke's ruling passion was the love
                        of display in the presence of foreigners.
                    I shall not give the story of this disastrous war in detail; that lies in the
                        province of history, and my story relates only to Max and Yolanda, and to
                        the manner in which they were affected by the results of the war.
                    We marched with forty thousand men, and laid siege to the city of Granson, in
                        the district of Vaud. The Swiss sent ambassadors under a flag of truce,
                        begging Charles to spare them, and saying, according to my friend Comines,
                        that "there were among them no good prisoners to make, and that the spurs
                        and horses' bits of the duke's army were worth more money than all the
                        people of Switzerland could pay in ransoms, even if they were taken."
                        Charles rejected all overtures, and on the third of March the  brave little Swiss army sallied against us,
                        "heralding their advances by the lowings of the Bull of Uri and the Cow of
                        Unterwalden, two enormous instruments which had been given to their
                        ancestors by Charlemagne."
                    God was against Charles of Burgundy, and his army was utterly routed by one
                        of less than a fourth its size. I was with Charles after the battle, and his
                        humiliation was more pitiful than his bursts of ungovernable wrath were
                        disgusting. The king of France, hoping for this disaster, was near by at
                        Lyons.
                    A cruel man is always despicable in misfortune. Charles at once sent to King
                        Louis a conciliatory, fawning letter, recanting all that he had said in his
                        last missive from Peronne, and expressing the hope that His Majesty would
                        adhere to the treaty and would consent to the marriage of Princess Mary and
                        the Dauphin at once. In this letter Yolanda had no opportunity to insert a
                        disturbing "t." Louis answered graciously, saying that the treaty should be
                        observed, and that the marriage should take place immediately upon the
                        duke's return to Burgundy.
                    "We have already forwarded instructions to Paris," wrote King Louis,
                        "directing that preparations be made at once for the celebration of this
                        most desired union at the holy church of St. Denis. We wondered much at Your
                        Grace's first missive, in which you so 
                        peremptorily desired us not to move in this matter till your return; and we
                        wondered more at Your Lordship's ungracious reply to our answer in which we
                        consented to the delay Your Grace had asked."
                    Well might King Louis wonder. Charles also wondered, and cursed the stupidity
                        of the Bishop of Cambrai, who had so "encumbered his letter with senseless
                        courtesy as to distort its meaning."
                    Charles despatched letters to Peronne and Ghent, ordering immediate
                        preparations for the marriage. As usual, poor Mary was not considered of
                        sufficient importance to receive notice of the event that concerned her so
                        vitally. Others would prepare her, as one might fatten a lamb for slaughter.
                        The lamb need not be consulted or even informed; the day of its fate would
                        be sufficient for it. I was in despair. Max, in his ignorance, was
                        indifferent.
                    After a short delay, the duke gathered his wrath and his army and laid siege
                        to the town of Morat, announcing his intention to give no quarter, but to
                        kill all, old and young, men, women, and children. The Swiss were prepared
                        for us. "The energy of pride was going to be pitted against the energy of
                        patriotism." Again disaster fell upon Charles. Thousands of his army were
                        slain, and thousands fled in hopeless rout. His soldiers had never wanted to
                        fight, and one man defending his hearth is stronger than half a score
                        attacking it.
                    
                    The loss of this battle drove Charles back to Burgundy. With a few of his
                        train, including Max and myself, he retired to the Castle of La Riviera.
                        Here he learned that René, Duke of Lorraine, had mustered his forces and had
                        laid siege to Nancy, which city Charles had taken from Duke René, some years
                        before, and had garrisoned with Burgundians and English. Upon hearing this
                        unwelcome news, Charles began the arduous task of collecting another army.
                        He was compelled to leave the neighborhood of Switzerland and fly to the
                        rescue of Nancy.
                    The first of January found us before Nancy, but our arrival was three days
                        too late. The city had capitulated to Duke René. On the fifth of January a
                        battle was fought before Nancy, but Fortune had turned her back for all and
                        all on this cruel Duke of Burgundy and Count of Charolois. The disasters at
                        Granson and Morat were repeated. At nightfall Charles could not be found. I
                        supposed that he had escaped, but the next morning his body was found by a
                        washerwoman, frozen in the ice of a pond. He had been killed through the
                        machinations of Campo-Basso. Duke René magnanimously gave Charles regal
                        burial, and dismissed his followers without ransom. You may be sure I was
                        eager to return to Peronne.
                    Fortune, in turning her back upon Charles, had turned her smiling face toward
                        Max. Her ladyship's  smiles were too precious
                        to be wasted, so we made post-haste for Peronne, I spurred by one motive,
                        Mary of Burgundy, Max by another — Yolanda. His heart had grieved
                        for her in castle, in camp, and in din of battle. He had, unknown to me,
                        formed a great and noble resolution; and there was no horse swift enough to
                        keep pace with his desire when we started for Peronne.
                    I was the first to announce the duke's death. The dark news was given by me
                        to the duchess and the princess in Margaret's parlor. These poor women tried
                        to grieve, but they were not hypocrites, and they could not weep. Each had
                        received at Charles's hands only ill-usage and cruelty, and in their hearts
                        they must have felt relief at his death.
                    "It was sure to come," said Margaret. "The duke's bravery led him always into
                        danger. It is God's will, and it must be right."
                    The princess walked to the window, and said nothing, until I was about to
                        leave; then she turned to me nervously and asked:—
                    "Did — did Sir Max come with you?"
                    I looked at her in surprise, and glanced inquiringly toward the duchess.
                    "My mother knows all, Sir Karl," said the princess, reassuringly. "There have
                        been many things which I could not have done without her help. I have made
                        many rapid changes, Sir Karl, from a princess to a  burgher girl, and back again, and I should have failed without
                        my mother's help. I surely mystified you often before you knew of the
                        stairway in the wall. Indeed, I have often hurried breathless to Uncle
                        Castleman's house to deceive you. Mother invented a burgher girl's costume
                        that I used to wear as an under-bodice and petticoat, so, you see, I have
                        been visiting you in my petticoats. I will show you some fine day —
                        perhaps. I have but to unfasten a half-score of hooks, and off drops the
                        princess — I am Yolanda! I throw a skirt over my head, fasten the
                        hooks of a bodice, don my head-dress, and behold! the princess once more.
                        Only a moment intervenes between happiness and wretchedness. But tell me,
                        Sir Karl, have you ever told Sir Max who I am?"
                    "Never, Your Highness —"
                    "Yolanda," she interrupted, correcting me smilingly.
                    "Never, Yolanda," I responded. "He does not even suspect that you are the
                        princess. I shall be true to you. You know what you are doing."
                    "Indeed I do, Sir Karl," she replied. "I shall win or lose now in a short
                        time and in short skirts. If Max will wed me as Yolanda, I shall be the
                        happiest girl on earth. If not, I shall be the most wretched. If he learns
                        that I am the princess, and if I must offer him the additional inducement of
                        my estates and my domains to bring him to me, I shall not see him again, Sir
                        Karl, if I die of grief for it."
                    
                    I knew well what she meant, but I did not believe that she would be able to
                        hold to her resolution if she were put to the test. I was, however,
                        mistaken. With all my knowledge of the girl I did not know her strength.
                    We reached Peronne during the afternoon and, of course, went early the same
                        evening to Castleman's.
                    We were greeted heartily by the good burgher, his wife, and his daughter.
                        Twonette courtesied to Max, but when she came to me, this serene young
                        goddess of pink and white offered me her cheek to kiss. I, who had passed my
                        quasi-priestly life without once enjoying such a luxury, touched the velvet
                        cheek with my lips and actually felt a thrill of delight. Life among the
                        burghers really was delicious. I tell you this as a marked illustration of
                        the fact that a man never grows too old to be at times a fool. Twonette
                        slipped from the room, and within fifteen minutes returned. She went
                        directly to Max and said:—
                    "Some one is waiting for you in the oak room above."
                    She pointed the way, and Max climbed the stairs two steps at a time. I
                        thought from his eagerness he would clear the entire flight at one bound. To
                        his knock a soft voice bade him enter. The owner of the voice was sitting
                        demurely at the farthest end of the room on a cushioned bench. Her back
                        rested against the moving panel that led to the stairway  in the wall. She did not move when Max
                        entered. She had done all the moving she intended to do, and Max must now
                        act for himself. He did. He ran down the long room to her,
                        crying:—
                    "Yolanda! Yolanda!"
                    She rose to greet him, and he, taking her in his arms, covered her face with
                        kisses. The unconscious violence of his great strength bruised and hurt her,
                        but she gloried in the pain, and was passive as a babe in his arms. When
                        they were seated and half calm, she clutched one of his great fingers and
                        said:—
                    "You kept your word, Little Max. You came back to me."
                    "Did you not know that I would come?" he asked.
                    "Ah, indeed, I knew — you are not one that makes a promise to break
                        it. Sometimes it is difficult to induce such a man to give his word, and I
                        found it so, but once given it is worth having — worth having,
                        Little Max."
                    She smiled up into his face while she spoke, as if to say, "You gave me a
                        deal of trouble, but at last I have captured you."
                    "Did you so greatly desire the promise, Yolanda?" asked Max, solely for the
                        pleasure of hearing her answer.
                    "Yes," she answered softly, hanging her head, "more than any man can know. It must be an intense longing that will drive a
                        modest girl to  boldness, such as I have shown
                        ever since the day I first met you at dear old Basel. It almost broke my
                        heart when father — fatherland — when Burgundy made war on
                        Switzerland." The word "land" was a lucky thought, and came to the girl just
                        in the nick of time.
                    Max was too much interested in the girl to pay close attention to any slips
                        she might make about the war with Switzerland. It is true he was now a
                        soldier, and war was all right in its place; but there are things in life
                        compared with which the wars of nations are trivial affairs. All subjects
                        save one were unwelcome to him.
                    "Now I am going to ask a promise from you, Fräulein," said Max, loosening his
                        hand from her grasp and placing his arm about her waist. She offered no
                        objections to the new situation, but blushed and looked down demurely to her
                        folded hands.
                    "It will, I fear, be very easy for you, Max, to induce me to promise anything
                        you wish. It will be all too easy, for I am not strong, as you are." She
                        glanced into his face, but her eyes fell quickly to her hands.
                    "I shall soon leave you again, Fräulein, and what I wish is of such moment
                        that I — I almost fear to ask."
                    "Yes, Max," she murmured, gently reaching across his knee, and placing her
                        hand in his by way of encouragement.
                    
                    "It is this, Fräulein. I am going back to Styria, and I want to carry with me
                        your promise to be my wife," said Max, softly.
                    The girl's head fell over against his shoulder, and she clasped his free hand
                        between both of hers.
                    "I will ask my father's consent," said Max. "I will tell him of you and of my
                        great love, which is so great, Fräulein, that all the world is nothing
                        beside it and beside you, and he will grant my request."
                    "But if he doesn't, Max?" asked the face hidden upon his breast.
                    "If he does not, Fräulein, I will forego my country and my estates. I will
                        come back to you and will work in the fields, if need be, to make you as
                        happy as you will make me."
                    "There will be no need for that, Max," she answered, tears of happiness
                        slowly trickling down her cheeks, "for I am rich."
                    "That I am sorry to hear," he responded.
                    "Don't you want to know who I am before you wed me?" she asked, after a long
                        pause. She had almost made up her mind to tell him.
                    "That you may tell me when you are my wife," said Max. "I thought you were
                        the Princess Mary, but I am almost glad that you are not. I soon knew that I
                        was wrong, for I knew that you would not deceive me."
                    The girl winced and concluded to postpone telling  her momentous secret. She was now afraid to do so. As a matter
                        of fact, she had in her heart a healthy little touch of womanly cowardice on
                        small occasions. After a long, delicious pause, Max said:—
                    "Have I your promise, Fräulein?"
                    "Y-e-s," she answered hesitatingly, "I will be your wife if — if I
                        can, and if you will take me when you learn who I am. There is no taint of
                        disgrace about me, Max," she added quickly, in response to the look of
                        surprise on his face. "But I am not worthy of you, and I fear that if your
                        father but knew my un-worthiness, he would refuse his consent to our
                        marriage. You must not tell him of my boldness. I will tell you all about
                        myself before you leave for Styria, and then, if you do not want me, you may
                        leave me to — to die."
                    "I shall want you, Yolanda. I shall want you. Have no doubt of that," he
                        answered.
                    "With the assurance that there is no stain or taint upon me or my family, do
                        you give me your word, Max, that you will want me and will take me, whoever
                        I am, and will not by word or gesture show me that you are angry or that you
                        regret your promise?"
                    "I gladly give you that promise," answered Max.
                    "Did you ever tell a lie, Little Max?" she asked banteringly, "or did you
                        ever deliberately break a promise?"
                    
                    "Did I ever steal or commit wilful murder?" asked Max, withdrawing his
                        arm.
                    "No, Max; now put it back again," she said.
                    After a long pause she continued:—
                    "I have lied."
                    Max laughed and drew her to him.
                    "Your lies will harm no one," he said joyously.
                    "No," she responded, "I only lie that good may come of it."
                    Then silence fell upon the world — their world. Was not that hour
                        with Max worth all the pains that Yolanda had taken to deceive him?
                    Yolanda and Max came down to the long room, and she, too, gave me her cheek
                        to kiss.
                    Twonette had prepared a great tankard of wine and honey, with pepper and
                        allspice to suit Yolanda's taste, and we all sat before the great blazing
                        yule fire, as joyful and content as any six people in Christendom. Twonette
                        and Yolanda together occupied one large chair; Twonette serenely allowing
                        herself to be caressed by Yolanda, who was in a state of mind that compelled
                        her to caress some one. Gentle Frau Kate was sleeping in a great easy chair
                        near the chimney-corner. Max sat at one side of the table, — the
                        side nearest Yolanda, — while Castleman and I sat by each other
                        within easy reach of the wine. I knew without the telling, all that had
                        occurred upstairs, and the same light seemed to have fallen upon  the Castlemans. Good old George was in high
                        spirits, and I could see in his eye that he intended to get drunk and, if
                        possible, to bring me, also, to that happy condition. After many goblets of
                        wine, he remarked:—
                    "The king of France will probably be upon us within a fortnight after he
                        hears the sad news from Nancy."
                    Yolanda immediately sat upright in her chair, abandoning Twonette's soft hand
                        and softer cheek.
                    "Why do you believe so, uncle?" she asked nervously.
                    "Because he has waited all his life for this untoward event to happen."
                    "Preparations should be made to receive him," said Yolanda.
                    "Ah, yes," replied Castleman, "but Burgundy's army is scattered to the four
                        winds. It has given its blood for causes in which its heart was not. We lack
                        the strong arm of the duke, to force men to battle against their will. King
                        Louis must be fought by policy, not by armies; and Hymbercourt is
                        absent."
                    "Do you know aught of him, Sir Karl?" asked Yolanda.
                    "I do not, Fräulein," I answered, "save that he was alive and well when we
                        left Nancy."
                    "That, at least, is good news," she replied, "and I make sure he will soon
                        come to Burgundy's help."
                    
                    "I am sure he is now on his way," I answered.
                    "What can Burgundy do?" she asked, turning to Castleman and me. "You will
                        each advise — advise the princess, I hope."
                    "If she wishes my poor advice," I responded, "she has but to ask it."
                    "And mine," said Castleman, tipping his goblet over his nose.
                    "If we are to have clear heads to-morrow," I suggested, "we must drink no
                        more wine to-night. The counsel of wine is the advice of the devil."
                    "Right you are, Sir Karl. Only one more goblet. Here's to the health of the
                        bride to be," said Castleman.
                    Yolanda leaned back in her chair beside Twonette, and her face wore a curious
                        combination of smile and pout.
                    On the way to the inn, Max, who was of course very happy, told me what had
                        happened in the oak room and added:—
                    "I look to you, Karl, to help me with father."
                    "That I will certainly do," I answered. I could not resist saying: "We came
                        to Burgundy with the hope of winning the princess. Fortune has opened a door
                        for you by the death of her father. Don't you wish to try?"
                    "No," said Max, turning on me. A moment later he added, "If Yolanda were but
                        the princess, as I  once believed she was,
                        what a romance our journey to Burgundy would make!"
                    My spirits were somewhat dampened by Castleman's words concerning the French
                        king. Surely they were true, since King Louis was the last man in Europe to
                        forego the opportunity presented by the death of Charles. Should the
                        Princess Mary lose Burgundy just at the time when Max had won her, my
                        disappointment would indeed be great, and Max might truly need my help with
                        his father.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XX
                    A TREATY WITH LOUIS XI
                    
                        THE next day Castleman and I were called to the castle,
                        and talked over the situation with the duchess and the Princess Mary. In the
                        midst of our council, in walked Hymbercourt and Hugonet. They were devoted
                        friends of Mary.
                    Our first move was to send spies to the court of France; so two trusted men
                        started at once. Paris was but thirty leagues distant, and the men could
                        reach it in fifteen hours. Half a day there should enable them to learn the
                        true condition of affairs, since they carried well-filled purses to loosen
                        the tongues of Cardinal Balau and Oliver the Barber. The bribery plan was
                        Mary's, and it worked admirably.
                    Within forty-eight hours the spies returned, and reported that King Louis,
                        with a small army, was within fifteen leagues of Peronne. He had quickly
                        assembled the three estates at Paris, all of whom promised the king their
                        aid. In the language of the chancellor, "The commons offered to help their
                        king with their bodies and their wealth, the nobles with their advice, and
                        the clergy with their prayers." This appalling news set Peronne in an
                        uproar.
                    
                    Recruiting officers were sent out in all directions, the town was garrisoned,
                        and fortifications were over-hauled. Mary was again in trouble, and the
                        momentous affairs resting on her young shoulders seemed to have put Max out
                        of her mind. I expected her to call him into council and reveal herself, but
                        she did not.
                    On the day after we learned of King Louis' approach, the princess called
                        Hymbercourt, Hugonet, Castleman, and myself to her closet and graciously
                        asked us to be seated about a small table.
                    "I have formed a plan that I wish to submit to you," she said. "I'll send to
                        King Louis an invitation to visit me here at Peronne, under safeguard. When
                        he comes, I intend to offer to restore all the cities that my father took
                        from him, if he will release me from the treaty of marriage, and will swear
                        upon the Cross of Victory to support me against my enemies, and to assist me
                        in subduing Ghent, now in rebellion. What think you of the plan?"
                    "Your Highness is giving King Louis nearly half your domain," suggested
                        Hymbercourt.
                    "True," answered the princess, "but it is better to give half than to lose
                        all. Where can we turn for help against this greedy king? When Burgundy is
                        in better case, we'll take them all from him again."
                    "Your Highness is right," answered Hymbercourt. "But what assurance have you
                        that King Louis will accept your terms?"
                    
                    "Little, my lord, save that King Louis does not know our weakness. Oliver has
                        by this time told him that he has news of a vast army collecting within
                        twenty leagues of Peronne. If Louis accepts our terms, Oliver and the
                        cardinal are each to receive twenty thousand crowns out of our treasury at
                        Luxembourg. My father fought King Louis with blows; I'll fight His Majesty
                        with his own weapon, gold. That is the lesson my father should have
                        learned."
                    I rose to my feet during her recital and looked down at her in wonder.
                    "Yolanda"—I began, but corrected myself— "Your Highness
                        needs no councillor. I, for one, deem your plan most wise, and I see in it
                        the salvation of Burgundy."
                    The other councillors agreed with me most heartily.
                    "I have still another plan which I hope may frighten King Louis into
                        accepting our terms. During the conference which I hope to hold with His
                        Majesty, I shall receive a message from my mother's brother, King Edward of
                        England. The missive, of course, will be directed to my father, since the
                        English king cannot yet know of the duke's death. The messenger will be an
                        English herald, and will demand immediate audience, and — and
                        — however, I'll keep the remainder of that plan to myself."
                    A broad smile appeared on the faces of all present. Hugonet gazed at the
                        princess and laughed outright.
                    
                    "Why did not your father take you into his council?" he asked.
                    "I should have been no help to him," she responded. "A woman's wits, dear
                        Hugonet, must be driven by a great motive."
                    "But you would have had the motive," answered Hugonet.
                    "There is but one motive for a woman, my lord," she answered.
                    Hugonet unceremoniously whistled his astonishment, and Yolanda blushed as she
                        said:—
                    "You shall soon know."
                    Mary's plan for an interview with Louis succeeded perfectly. He came
                        post-haste under safe conduct to Peronne.
                    Whatever may be said against Louis, he did not know personal fear. He had a
                        wholesome dread of sacrificing the lives of his people, and preferred to
                        satisfy his greed by policy rather than by war. Gold, rather than blood, was
                        the price he paid for his victories. Taken all in all, he was the greatest
                        king that France ever had — if one may judge a king by the double
                        standard of what he accomplishes and what it costs his people. He almost
                        doubled the territory of France, and he lost fewer men in battle than any
                        enterprising monarch of whom I know.
                    Within forty-eight hours of receiving the safe conduct, King Louis was
                        sitting beside Mary on the dais  of the ducal
                        throne in the great hall. She was heavily veiled, being in mourning for her
                        father. At her left stood Hymbercourt, Hugonet, Max, and myself. At the
                        king's right stood Cardinal Balau and Oliver the Barber, each anticipating a
                        rich reward in case Louis should accept Mary's terms. Back of them stood a
                        score of the king's courtiers. Many questions of state were discussed; and
                        then Hymbercourt presented Mary's offer to King Louis. The king hesitated.
                        After a long pause he spoke, looking straight ahead, at nothing; as was his
                        custom.
                    "We will consult with our friends and make answer soon," he said, speaking to
                        nobody.
                    Louis seemed to think that if he looked at no one and addressed nobody, when
                        he spoke, he might the more easily wriggle out of his obligations later
                        on.
                    Mary had caused to be drawn up in duplicate a treaty in accordance with the
                        terms that she had out-lined at our little council. It was handed to Oliver
                        when the king rose to retire to a private room, to discuss the contents with
                        his councillors.
                    At the moment when King Louis rose to his feet, a herald was announced at the
                        great hall door.
                    "A message from His Majesty, King Edward of England," cried the Burgundian
                        herald. Louis resumed his seat as though his feet had slipped from under
                        him.
                    "We are engaged," answered Mary, acting well a 
                        difficult part. "Let the herald leave his packet, or deliver it later."
                    A whispered conversation took place between the Burgundian herald and the
                        Englishman. Then spoke the Burgundian:—
                    "Most Gracious Princess, the English herald has no packet. He bears a verbal
                        message to your late father, and insists that he must deliver it to Your
                        Highness at once."
                    "Must, indeed!" cried Mary, indignantly. Then turning to the king: "These
                        English grow arrogant, Your Majesty. What has the herald to say? Let him
                        come forward. We have no secrets from our most gracious godfather, King
                        Louis."
                    The English herald approached the ducal throne, but did not speak.
                    "Proceed," said Mary, irritably.
                    "With all deference, Most Gracious Princess," said the herald, "the
                        subject-matter of my message is such that it should be communicated
                        privately, or at Your Highness's council-board."
                    "If you have a message from my good uncle, King Edward, deliver it here and
                        now," said the princess.
                    "As you will, Most Gracious Princess," said the herald. "King Edward has
                        amassed a mighty army, which is now awaiting orders to sail for France; and
                        His Majesty asks permission to cross the territory of Burgundy on his way to
                        Paris. He will pay to Your  Highness such
                        compensation as may be agreed upon when His Majesty meets you, which he
                        hopes may be within a month. His Majesty begs a written reply to the message
                        I bear."
                    Mary paused before she answered.
                    "Wait without. My answer depends upon the conclusions of His Majesty, the
                        King of France."
                    The herald withdrew, but in the meantime Louis had descended to the floor and
                        was busily conning the treaty that Mary had caused to be written. He was
                        whispering with Cardinal Balau and Oliver, and was evidently excited by the
                        news he had just heard from England. When he resumed his seat beside Mary,
                        he said:—
                    "By this treaty, which is simple and straight-forward, Your Highness cedes to
                        me certain cities herein named, in perpetuity; and in consideration thereof,
                        I am to be with you friend of friend and foe of foe. I am to aid you in
                        subduing your rebellious subjects, and to sustain you in your choice of a
                        husband. I am also to release you from the present contract of marriage with
                        my son, the Dauphin."
                    "That is all, Your Majesty," said the princess. "It is short and to the
                        point."
                    "Indeed it is, Your Highness, and if you will answer King Edward and will
                        deny him the privilege of crossing Burgundy, I will sign the treaty, and
                        will swear upon the true cross to keep it inviolate."
                    
                    Mary could hardly conceal her exultation, but she answered
                        calmly:—
                    "Will Your Majesty sign now?"
                    Louis and Mary each signed the treaty, and the piece of the true cross upon
                        which the oath was to be made was brought before them, resting on a velvet
                        pillow. Now there were many pieces of the true cross, of which Louis
                        possessed two. Upon one of these he held the oath to be binding and
                        inviolate; it was known as the Cross of Victory. Upon the other his oath was
                        less sacred, and the sin of perjury was venial.
                    I stood near the throne, and, suspecting Louis of fraud, made bold to
                        inquire:—
                    "Most humbly I would ask Your Majesty, is this the Cross of Victory?"
                    The king examined the piece of wood resting on the cushion and
                        said:—
                    "By Saint Andrew, My Lord Cardinal, you have committed an error. You have
                        brought me the wrong piece."
                    The Cross of Victory was then produced, with many apologies and excuses for
                        the mistake, and the oath was taken while Mary's tiny hand rested on the
                        relic beside King Louis' browned and wrinkled talon. When the ceremony was
                        finished, the king turned to Mary and said:—
                    "Whom will Your Highness select for a husband?"
                    
                    "My father sometime had treaty with Duke Frederick of Styria, looking to my
                        marriage with his son Maximilian, and I shall ratify the compact."
                    Max was about to speak, but I plucked him by the sleeve.
                    Now I shall hasten to the end. The king took his departure within an hour,
                        carrying with him his copy of the treaty. The audience was dismissed, and
                        the princess left the great hall by the door back of the throne, having
                        first directed Hymbercourt, Hugonet, Max, and myself to follow within five
                        minutes, under conduct of a page. Castleman excused himself and left the
                        hall.
                    The page soon came to fetch us, and we were taken to Mary's parlor, adjoining
                        her bedroom in Darius tower. From the bedroom, as you know, the stairway in
                        the wall descends to Castleman's house. In the parlor we found Mary, the
                        Duchess Margaret, and several ladies in waiting. All the ladies, including
                        Mary, were heavily veiled. When we entered, Mary addressed
                        Max:—
                    "Sir Count, you doubtless heard my announcement to the king of France. It was
                        my father's desire at one time to unite Styria and Burgundy by marriage. I
                        myself sent you a letter and a ring that you doubtless still possess. Are
                        you pleased with my offer?"
                    
                    Max fell to his knee before the princess:—
                    "Your Highness's condescension is far beyond my deserts. There are few men
                        who could refuse your offer, but I am pledged to another, and I beg Your
                        Highness —
                    "Enough, enough," cried the princess, indignantly. "No man need explain his
                        reasons for refusing the hand of Mary of Burgundy."
                    Astonishment appeared on all faces save mine. I thought I knew the purpose of
                        Her Highness. Max rose to his feet, and Mary said:—
                    "We'll go downstairs now, and, if you wish, Sir Count, you may there say
                        farewell." She whispered a word to her mother, and led the way into her
                        bedroom. The duchess indicated that Max and I were to follow. We did so, and
                        Margaret came after us.
                    "We'll go down by these steps," said the princess, leading us to the open
                        panel. "The way is dark, and you must use care in descending, Sir Count, but
                        this is the nearest way to the ground."
                    Max started down the steps and Mary followed close at his heels. I followed
                        Mary, and Duchess Margaret came after me.
                    When we had descended twenty steps, the upper panel was closed by some one in
                        the bedroom, and the stairway became inky dark. Ten steps further, I
                        stumbled and almost fell over a soft obstruction on  the stairs. I stooped and examined it. Fearing that the
                        duchess might fall when she reached it, I took it up. It was a lady's
                        head-dress and veil. A few steps farther I picked up a lady's bodice and
                        then a skirt. By the time I had made this collection, Max and Mary had
                        reached the moving panel at the foot of the stairs. I heard it slide back,
                        and a flood of light came in upon us. Yolanda, in burgher girl's costume,
                        sprang over the cushioned seat into Castle-man's oak room. Max followed, and
                        I, with an armful of woman's gear, helped the duchess to step to the cushion
                        and thence to the floor. Max stood for a moment in half-vexed surprise, but
                        Yolanda, two yards off, laughed merrily:—
                    "You promised, Sir Max, that you would show no anger when you learned who I
                        was, and you said you would neither lie, steal, nor commit murder."
                    The Castlemans stood near by, and the duchess and I joined them, forming an
                        admiring group. Max did not reply. He held out his arms to the girl, and she
                        ran to them. So closely did he hold her that she could hardly move. She did,
                        however, succeed in turning her face toward us, and said
                        poutingly:—
                    "Why don't you leave the room?"
                
            
        
        
            
            
                The Bears of Blue River
                By CHARLES MAJOR
                    Author of "Dorothy Vernon of Haddon Hall," etc.
                
                WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY A. B. FROST AND OTHERS
                Cloth 12mo $1.50
                "The book is thoroughly healthy, and it is infused through and through with the
                    breath of the forests. It is a delightful book to read." — Charleston Sun-News.
                
                "The book is especially adapted to boys, but the well-rounded style of the
                    author, combined with a little natural history, makes it at once interesting and
                    instructive to young and old alike." — Plymouth
                        Weekly
                
                "This is not a mere 'boy's book'; it is a work of art, appealing to the most
                    cultured reader." — Christian World.
                
                "Though the story may have been written for boys, it is even better fun for older
                    people and sportsmen, as a well-written, spirited book of so strenuous a life."
                    — Literary World.
                
                
                    THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 64-66 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK
                
            
            
            
                A FOREST HEARTH
                A ROMANCE OF INDIANA IN THE THIRTIES
                CHARLES MAJOR
                    Author of "Dorothy Vernon of Haddon Hall," "When Knight-hood
                        was in Flower," etc.
                
                With illustrations by CLYDE O. DE LAND
                
                Cloth 12mo $1.50
                This work is a novel full of charm and action, picturing the life and love of the
                    fascinating, indomitably adventurous men and women, boys and girls, who
                    developed Indiana during the thirties. It is the strongest, sunniest book Mr.
                    Major has written, and will delight older lovers of vigorous, breezy, outdoor
                    life as much as his "The Bears of Blue River" pleases his boy readers. It is
                    written with much of the strong, human appeal which made his first book famous,
                    but with that especial, intimate touch only possible when an author's theme is
                    as close to his heart as the early life of his native state is to Mr.
                    Major's.
                
                    THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 64-66 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK
                
            
            
            
                Dorothy Vernon of Haddon Hall
                By CHARLES MAJOR
                    Author of "When Knighthood Was in Flower," etc.
                     With eight full-page illustrations by HOWARD CHANDLER CHRISTY
                     Cloth 12mo $1.50
                "Dorothy Vernon is an Elizabethan maid, but a living, loving, lovable girl. . . .
                    The lover of accuracy of history in fiction may rest contented with the story;
                    but he will probably care little for that once he has been caught by the spirit
                    and freshness of the romance." — The Mail and
                        Express.
                
                "Dorothy is a splendid creation, a superb creature of brains, beauty, force,
                    capacity, and passion, a riot of energy, love, and red blood. She is the
                    fairest, fiercest, strongest, tenderest heroine that ever woke up a jaded novel
                    reader and made him realize that life will be worth living so long as the
                    writers of fiction create her like. . . . The story has brains, 'go,' virility,
                    gumption, and originality." — The Boston Transcript.
                
                "Dorothy is a fascinating character, whose womanly whims and cunning ways in
                    dealing with her manly, honest lover and her wrathful father are cleverly
                    portrayed. The interest is maintained to the end. Some might call Dorothy a
                    vixen, but she is of that rare and ravishing kind who have tried (and satisfied)
                    men's souls from the days of Mother Eve to the present time." — The New York Herald.
                
                "A romance of much delicacy, variety, strength, and grace, in which are revealed
                    the history of four lovers who by their purely human attributes are distinct
                    types." —Evening Journal News, Evansville.
                "As a study of woman, the incomprehensible, yet thoroughly lovable, Dorothy
                    Vernon clearly leads all recent attempts in fiction. Dorothy is a wonderful
                    creature." — Columbus Evening Dispatch.
                
                "Dorothy is a feminine whirlwind, very attractive to her audience if somewhat
                    disconcerting to her victims, and the story, even in these days when romance has
                    become a drug, makes good reading." — New York Life.
                
                
                    THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 64-66 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK
                
            
        
    
