
     ----CITATION---- 
        McCutcheon, George Barr, 1866-1928. Beverly of Graustark: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2008).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2464
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                
                    Beverly.
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    BEVERLY OF GRAUSTARK
                
                BY GEORGE BARR McCUTCHEON Author of
                    "Graustark," "Castle Craneyrow,"
                    etc.
                WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY HARRIS N FISHER
                
                    NEW YORK
                    DODD, MEAD & COMPANY
                    1904
                
            
            
            
                Copyright, 1904, by DODD, MEAD AND COMPANY.
                    All rights reserved.
                    Dramatic rights reserved by the author. Published
                    September, 1904.
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    I East of the Setting Sun 1
                        
                    II Beverly Calhoun 5
                        
                    III On the Road from Balak 18
                        
                    IV The Ragged Retinue 31
                        
                    V The Inn of the Hawk and Raven 42
                        
                    VI The Home of the Lion 56
                        
                    VII Some Facts and Fancies 69
                        
                    VIII Through the Ganlook Gates 84
                        
                    IX The Redoutable Dangloss 96
                        
                    X Inside the Castle Walls 108
                        
                    XI The Royal Coach of Graustark 119
                        
                    XII In Service 132
                        
                    XIII The Three Princes 144
                        
                    XIV A Visit and Its Consequences 157
                        
                    XV The Testing of Baldos 170
                        
                    XVI On the Way to St. Valentine's 181
                        
                    XVII A Note Translated 191
                        
                    XVIII Confessions and Concessions 202
                        
                    
                    XIX The Night Fires 211
                        
                    XX Gossip of Some Consequence 225
                        
                    XXI The Rose 236
                        
                    XXII A Proposal 249
                        
                    XXIII A Shot in the Darkness 262
                        
                    XXIV Beneath the Ground 273
                        
                    XXV The Valor of the South 284
                        
                    XXVI The Degradation of Marlanx 291
                        
                    XXVII The Prince of Dawsbergen 303
                        
                    XXVIII A Boy Disappears 316
                        
                    XXIX The Capture of Gabriel 328
                        
                    XXX In the Grotto 334
                        
                    XXXI Clear Skies 347
                        
                
            
            
            
                ILLUSTRATIONS
                
                    Beverly 
                            Frontispiece
                        
                        
                    "'Who--who in heaven's name are you?'
                        she faltered"  34
                        
                    "'Your highness,' he said, clearly, coolly,
                        'I fear we have spies and eavesdroppers here'"
                            142
                        
                    "'That was beautiful,' murmured Beverly,
                        looking up, fascinated for the moment" 208
                        
                    "'I hated you to-night, I thought,' she cried,
                        taking his face in her hands" 354
                        
                
            
        
        
            
            
                Beverly of Graustark
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    EAST OF THE SETTING SUN
                    FAR off in the mountain lands, somewhere to the east of the setting sun, lies
                        the principality of Graustark, serene relic of rare old feudal days. The
                        traveler reaches the little domain after an arduous, sometimes perilous
                        journey from the great European capitals, whether they be north or south or
                        west --- never east. He crosses great rivers and wide plains; he winds
                        through fertile valleys and over barren plateaus; he twists and turns and
                        climbs among sombre gorges and rugged mountains; he touches the cold clouds
                        in one day and the placid warmth of the valley in the next. One does not go
                        to Graustark for a pleasure jaunt. It is too far from the rest of the world
                        and the ways are often dangerous because of the strife among the tribes of
                        the intervening mountains. If one hungers for excitement and peril he finds
                        it in the journey from the north or the south into the land of the
                        Graustarkians. From Vienna  and other places
                        almost directly west the way is not so full of thrills, for the railroad
                        skirts the darkest of the dangerlands.
                    Once in the heart of Graustark, however, the traveler is charmed into dreams
                        of peace and happiness and --- paradise. The peasants and the poets sing in
                        one voice and accord, their psalm being of never-ending love. Down in the
                        lowlands and up in the hills, the simple worker of the soil rejoices that he
                        lives in Graustark; in the towns and villages the humble merchant and his
                        thrifty customer unite to sing the song of peace and contentment; in the
                        palaces of the noble the same patriotism warms its heart with thoughts of
                        Graustark, the ancient. Prince and pauper strike hands for the love of the
                        land, while outside the great, heartless world goes rumbling on without a
                        thought of the rare little principality among the eastern mountains.
                    In point of area, Graustark is but a mite in the great galaxy of nations.
                        Glancing over the map of the world, one is almost sure to miss the
                        infinitesimal patch of green that marks its location. One could not be
                        blamed if he regarded the spot as a typographical or topographical illusion.
                        Yet the people of this quaint little land hold in their hearts a love and a
                        confidence that is not surpassed by any of the lordly monarchs who measure
                        their patriotism by miles and millions. The Graustarkians are a sturdy,
                        courageous race. From the faraway century when they fought themselves clear
                        of the Tartar yoke, to this very hour, they have been warriors of might and
                        valor. The  boundaries of their tiny domain were
                        kept inviolate for hundreds of years, and but one victorious foe had come
                        down to lay siege to Edelweiss, the capital. Axphain, a powerful
                        principality in the north, had conquered Graustark in the latter part of the
                        nineteenth century, but only after a bitter war in which starvation and
                        famine proved far more destructive than the arms of the victors. The treaty
                        of peace and the indemnity that fell to the lot of vanquished Graustark have
                        been discoursed upon at length in at least one history.
                    Those who have followed that history must know, of course, that the reigning
                        princess, Yetive, was married to a young American at the very tag-end of the
                        nineteenth century. This admirable couple met in quite romantic fashion
                        while the young sovereign was traveling incognito through the United States
                        of America. The American, a splendid fellow named Lorry, was so persistent
                        in the subsequent attack upon her heart, that all ancestral prejudices were
                        swept away and she became his bride with the full consent of her entranced
                        subjects. The manner in which he wooed and won this young and adorable ruler
                        forms a very attractive chapter in romance, although unmentioned in history.
                        This being the tale of another day, it is not timely to dwell upon the
                        interesting events which led up to the marriage of the Princess Yetive to
                        Grenfall Lorry. Suffice it to say that Lorry won his bride against all
                        wishes and odds and at the same time won an endless love and esteem from the
                        people of tile of the little kingdom among the eastern hills.  Two years have passed since that notable wedding in
                        Edelweiss.
                    Lorry and his wife, the princess, made their home in Washington, but spent a
                        few months of each year in Edelweiss. During the periods spent in Washington
                        and in travel, her affairs in Graustark were in the hands of a capable,
                        austere old diplomat --- her uncle, Count Caspar Halfont. Princess Volga
                        reigned as regent over the principality of Axphain. To the south lay the
                        principality of Dawsbergen, ruled by young Prince Dantan, whose half
                        brother, the deposed Prince Gabriel, had been for two years a prisoner in
                        Graustark, the convicted assassin of Prince Lorenz, of Axphain, one time
                        suitor for the hand of Yetive. It was after the second visit of the Lorrys
                        to Edelweiss that a serious turn of affairs presented itself. Gabriel had
                        succeeded in escaping from his dungeon. His friends in Dawsbergen stirred up
                        a revolution and Dantan was driven from the throne at Serros. On the arrival
                        of Gabriel at the capital, the army of Dawsbergen espoused the cause of the
                        Prince it had spurned and, three days after his escape, he was on his
                        throne, defying Yetive and offering a price for the head of the unfortunate
                        Dantan, now a fugitive in the hills along the Graustark frontier.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    BEVERLY CALHOUN
                    MAJOR GEORGE CALHOUN was a member of Congress from one of the southern
                        states. His forefathers had represented the same commonwealth, and so, it
                        was likely, would his descendants, if there is virtue in the fitness of
                        things and the heredity of love. While intrepid frontiersmen were opening
                        the trails through the fertile wilds west of the Alleghanies, a strong
                        branch of the Calhoun family followed close in their footsteps. The
                        major's great-grandfather saw the glories and the possibilities of
                        the new territory. He struck boldly westward from the old revolutionary
                        grounds, abandoning the luxuries and traditions of the Carolinas for a
                        fresh, wild life of promise. His sons and daughters became solid stones in
                        the foundation of a commonwealth, and his grandchildren are still at work on
                        the structure. State and national legislatures had known the Calhouns from
                        the beginning. Battlefields had tested their valor, and drawing-rooms had
                        proved their gentility.
                    Major Calhoun had fought with Stonewall Jackson and won his spurs --- and at
                        the same time the heart and hand of Betty Haswell, the staunchest
                        Confederate who ever made flags, bandages and prayers  for the boys in gray. When the reconstruction came he
                        went to Congress and later on became prominent in the United States consular
                        service, for years holding an important European post. Congress claimed him
                        once more in the early '90s, and there he is at this very time.
                    Everybody in Washington's social and diplomatic circles admired the
                        beautiful Beverly Calhoun. According to his own loving term of
                        identification, she was the major's "youngest."
                        The fair southerner had seen two seasons in the nation's capital.
                        Cupid, standing directly in front of her, had shot his darts ruthlessly and
                        resistlessly into the passing hosts, and masculine Washington looked humbly
                        to her for the balm that might soothe its pains. The wily god of love was
                        fair enough to protect the girl whom he forced to be his unwilling, perhaps
                        unconscious, ally. He held his impenetrable shield between her heart and the
                        assaults of a whole army of suitors, high and low, great and small. It was
                        not idle rumor that said she had declined a coronet or two, that the
                        millions of more than one American Midas had been offered to her, and that
                        she had dealt gently but firmly with a score of hearts which had nothing but
                        love, ambition and poverty to support them in the conflict.
                    The Calhouns lived in a handsome home not far from the residence of Mr. and
                        Mrs. Grenfall Lorry. It seemed but natural that the two beautiful young
                        women should become constant and loyal friends. Women as lovely as they have
                        no reason to be jealous. It is only the woman who does not feel secure of
                        her  personal charms that cultivates envy. At
                        the home of Graustark's princess Beverly met the dukes and barons
                        from the far east; it was in the warmth of the Calhoun hospitality that
                        Yetive formed her dearest love for the American people.
                    Miss Beverly was neither tall nor short. She was of that divine and
                        indefinite height known as medium; slender but perfectly molded; strong but
                        graceful, an absolutely healthy young person whose beauty knew well how to
                        take care of itself. Being quite heart-whole and fancy-free, she slept well,
                        ate well, and enjoyed every minute of life. In her blood ran the warm, eager
                        impulses of the south; hereditary love of ease and luxury displayed itself
                        in every emotion; the perfectly normal demand upon men's admiration
                        was as characteristic in her as it is in any daughter of the land whose
                        women are born to expect chivalry and homage.
                    A couple of years in a New York "finishing school" for
                        young ladies had served greatly to modify Miss Calhoun's colloquial
                        charms. Many of her delightful "way down south" phrases
                        and mannerisms were blighted by the cold, unromantic atmosphere of a
                        seminary conducted by two ladies from Boston who were too old to marry, too
                        penurious to love and too prim to think that other women might care to do
                        both. There were times, however, --- if she were excited or enthusiastic,
                        --- when pretty Beverly so far forgot her training as to break forth with a
                        very at tractive "yo' all," "suah
                        'nough," or "go 'long naow."
                        And when the lands played "Dixie" she  was not afraid to stand up and wave her handkerchief.
                        The northerner who happened to be with her on such occasions usually found
                        himself doing like-wise before he could escape the infection.
                    Miss Calhoun's face was one that painters coveted deep down in their
                        artistic souls. It never knew a dull instant; there was expression in every
                        lineament, in every look; life, genuine life, dwelt in the mobile
                        countenance that turned the head of every man and woman who looked upon it.
                        Her hair was dark-brown and abundant; her eyes were a deep gray and looked
                        eagerly from between long lashes of black; her lips were red and ever
                        willing to smile or turn plaintive as occasion required; her brow was broad
                        and fair, and her frown was as dangerous as a smile. As to her age, if the
                        major admitted, somewhat indiscreetly, that all his children were old enough
                        to vote, her mother, with the reluctance born in women, confessed that she
                        was past twenty, so a year or two either way will determine Miss
                        Beverly's age, so far as the telling of this story is concerned.
                        Her eldest brother --- Keith Calhoun (the one with the congressional
                        heritage) --- thought she was too young to marry, while her second brother,
                        Dan, held that she soon would be too old to attract men with matrimonial
                        intentions. Lucy, the only sister, having been happily wedded for ten years,
                        advised her not to think of marriage until she was old enough to know her
                        own mind.
                    Toward the close of one of the most brilliant seasons the Capital had ever
                        known, less than a fortnight before Congress was to adjourn, the wife of
                        Grenfall  Received the news which spread gloomy
                        disapintment over the entire social realm. A dozen receptions, teas and
                        balls were destined to lose their richest attraction, and hostesses were in
                        despair. The princess had been called to Graustark.
                    Beverly Calhoun was miserably unhappy. She had heard the story of
                        Gabriel's escape and the consequent probability of a conflict with
                        Axphain. It did not require a great stretch of imagination to convince her
                        that the Lorrys were hurrying off to scenes of intrigue, strife and
                        bloodshed, and that not only Graustark but its princess was in jeopardy.
                    Miss Calhoun's most cherished hopes faded with announcement that
                        trouble, not pleasure, called Yetive to Edelweiss. It had been their plan
                        that Beverly should spend the delightful summer months in Graustark, a guest
                        at the royal palace. The original arrangements of the Lorrys were hopelessly
                        disturbed by the late news from Count Halfont. They were obliged to leave
                        Washington two months earlier than they intended, and they could not take
                        Beverly Calhoun into danger-ridden Graustark. The contemplated visit to St.
                        Petersburg and other pleasures had to be abandoned, and they were in
                        tears.
                    Yetive's maids were packing the trunks, and Lorry's
                        servants were in a wild state of haste preparing for the departure on
                        Saturday's ship. On Friday afternoon, Beverly was naturally where
                        she could do the most good and be of the least help --- at the
                        Lorrys'. Self-confessedly, she delayed the preparations. Respectful
                        maidservants and respectful menservants  came
                        often to the princess's boudoir to ask questions, and Beverly just
                        as frequently made tearful resolutions to leave the household in peace ---
                        if such a hullaballoo could be called peace. Callers came by the dozen, but
                        Yetive would see no one. Letters, telegrams and telephone calls almost
                        swamped her secretary; the footman and the butler fairly gasped under the
                        strain of excitement. Through it all the two friends sat despondent and
                        alone in the drear room that once had been the abode of pure delight.
                        Grenfall Lorry was off in town closing up all matters of business that could
                        be despatched at once. The princess and her industrious retinue were to take
                        the evening express for New York and the next day would find them at
                        sea.
                    "I know I shall cry all summer," vowed Miss Calhoun, with
                        conviction in her eyes. "It's just too awful for
                        anything." She was lying back among the cushions of the divan and
                        her hat was the picture of cruel neglect. For three solid hours she had
                        stubbornly withstood Yetive's appeals to remove her hat, insisting
                        that she could not trust herself to stay more than a minute or two.
                        "It seems to me, Yetive, that your jailers must be very incompetent
                        or they wouldn't have let loose all this trouble upon
                        you," she complained.
                    "Prince Gabriel is the very essence of trouble," confessed
                        Yetive, plaintively. "He was born to annoy people, just like the
                        evil prince in the fairy tales."
                    " I wish we had him over here," the American girl answered
                        stoutly. "He wouldn't be such a trouble,  I'm sure. We don't let small
                        troubles worry us very gyou know."
                    "But he's dreadfully important over there, Beverly;
                        that's the difficult part of it," said Yetive,
                        solemnly." You see, he is a condemned murderer."
                    "Then, you ought to hang him or electrocute him or whatever it is
                        that you do to murderers over there," promptly spoke Beverly.
                    "But, dear, you don't understand. He won't permit
                        us either to hang or to electrocute him, my dear. The situation is precisely
                        the reverse, if he is correctly quoted by my uncle. When Uncle Caspar sent
                        an envoy to inform Dawsbergen respectfully that Graustark would hold it
                        personally responsible if Gabriel were not surrendered, Gabriel himself
                        replied: 'Graustark be hanged!'"
                    "How rude of him, especially when your uncle was so courteous about
                        it. He must be a very disagreeable person," announced Miss
                        Calhoun.
                    "I am sure you wouldn't like him," said the
                        princess. "His brother, who has been driven from the throne --- and
                        from the capital, in fact --- is quite different. I have not seen him, but
                        my ministers regard him as a splendid young man."
                    "Oh, how I hope he may go back with his army and annihilate that old
                        Gabriel!" cried Beverly, frowning fiercely.
                    "Alas," sighed the princess, "he hasn't
                        an army, and besides he is finding it extremely difficult to keep from being
                        annihilated himself. The army has gone over to Prince Gabriel."
                    
                    "Pooh!" scoffed Miss Calhoun, who was thinking of the
                        enormous armies the United States can produce at a day's notice.
                        "What good is a ridiculous little army like his, anyway? A
                        battalion from Fort Thomas could beat it to ----"
                    "Don't boast, dear," interrupted Yetive, with a
                        wan smile. "Dawsbergen has a standing army of ten thousand
                        excellent soldiers. With the war reserves she has twice the available force
                        I can produce."
                    "But your men are so brave," cried Beverly, who had heard
                        their praises sung.
                    "True, God bless them; but you forget that we must attack Gabriel in
                        his own territory. To recapture him means a perilous expedition into the
                        mountains of Dawsbergen, and I am sorely afraid. Oh, dear, I hope
                        he'll surrender peaceably!"
                    "And go back to jail for life?" cried Miss Calhoun.
                        "It's a good deal to expect of him, dear. I fancy
                        it's much better fun kicking up a rumpus on the outside than it is
                        kicking one's toes off against an obdurate stone wall from the
                        inside. You can't blame him for fighting a bit."
                    "No --- I suppose not," agreed the princess, miserably.
                        "Gren is actually happy over the miserable affair, Beverly. He is
                        full of enthusiasm and positively aching to be in Graustark --- right in the
                        thick of it all. To hear him talk, one would think that Prince Gabriel has
                        no show at all. He kept me up till four o'clock this morning
                        telling me that Dawsbergen didn't know what kind of a snag it was
                        going up against. I have a vague idea what he means by that;  his manner did not leave much room for doubt. He also
                        said that we would jolt Dawsbergen off the map. It sounds encouraging, at
                        least, doesn't it?"
                    "It sounds very funny for you to say those things,"
                        admitted Beverly, "even though they come second-hand. You were not
                        cut out for slang."
                    "Why, I'm sure they are all good English words,"
                        remonstrated Yetive. "Oh, dear, I wonder what they are doing in
                        Graustark this very instant. Are they fighting or ----"
                    "No; they are merely talking. Don't you know, dear, that
                        there is never a fight until both sides have talked themselves out of
                        breath? We shall have six months of talk and a week or two of fight, just as
                        always do nowadays."
                    Oh, you Americans have such a comfortable way of looking at things,"
                        cried the princess. "Don't you ever see the serious side
                        of life?"
                    "My dear, the American always lets the other fellow see the serious
                        side of life," said Beverly.
                    "You wouldn't be so optimistic if a country much bigger and
                        more powerful than America happened to be the other fellow."
                    "It did sound frightfully boastful, didn't it?
                        It's the way we've been brought up, I reckon, --- even we
                        southerners who know what it is to be whipped. The idea of a girl like me
                        talking about war and trouble and all that! It's absurd,
                        isn't it?"
                    "Nevertheless, I wish I could see things through those dear gray
                        eyes of yours. Oh, how I'd like to ve you with me through all the
                        months that are to  come. You would be such a
                        help to me --- such a joy. Nothing would seem so hard if you were there to
                        make me see things through your brave American eyes." The princess
                        put her arms about Beverly's neck and drew her close.
                    "But Mr. Lorry possesses an excellent pair of American
                        eyes," protested Miss Beverly, loyally and very happily.
                    "I know, dear, but they are a man's eyes. Somehow, there is
                        a difference, you know. I wouldn't dare cry when he was looking,
                        but I could boo-hoo all day if you were there to comfort me. He thinks I am
                        very brave --- and I'm not," she confessed, dismally.
                    "Oh, I'm an awful coward," explained Beverly,
                        consolingly. "I think you are the bravest girl in all the
                        world," she added. "Don't you remember what you
                        did at ---" and then she recalled the stories that had come from
                        Graustark ahead of the bridal party two years before. Yetive was finally
                        obliged to place her hand on the enthusiastic visitor's lips.
                    "Peace," she cried, blushing. "You make me feel
                        like a-a --- what is it you call her --- a dime-novel heroine?"
                    "A yellow-back girl? Never!" exclaimed Beverly,
                        severely.
                    Visitors of importance in administration circles came at this moment and the
                        princess could not refuse to see them. Beverly Calhoun reluctantly departed,
                        but not until after giving a promise to accompany the Lorrys to the railway
                        station.
                    
                    The trunks had gone to be checked, and the house-hold was quieter than it had
                        been in many days. There was an air of depression about the place that had
                        its inception in the room upstairs where sober-faced Halkins served dinner
                        for a not over-talkative young couple.
                    " It will be all right,dearest," said Lorry, divining his
                        wife's thoughts as she sat staring rather soberly straight ahead of
                        her. "Just as soon as we get to Edelweiss, the whole affair will
                        look so simple that we can laugh at the fears of to-day. You see, we are a
                        long way off just now."
                    "I am only afraid of what may happen before we get there,
                        Gren," she said, simply. He leaned over and kissed her hand,
                        smiling at the emphasis she unconsciously placed on the pronoun.
                    Beverly Calhoun was announced just before coffee was served, and a moment
                        later was in the room. She stopped just inside the door, clicked her little
                        heels together and gravely brought her hand to "salute."
                        Her eyes were sparkling and her lips trembled with suppressed
                        excitement.
                    "I think I can report to you in Edelweiss next month,
                        general," she announced, with soldierly dignity. Her hearers stared
                        at the picturesque recruit, and Halkins so far forgot himself as to drop Mr.
                        Lorry's lump of sugar upon the table instead of into the cup.
                    "Explain yourself, sergeant!" finally fell from
                        Lorry's lips. The eyes of the princess were beginning to take on a
                        rapturous glow.
                    
                    "May I have a cup of coffee, please, sir? I've been so
                        excited I couldn't eat a mouthful at home." She gracefully
                        slid into the chair Halkins offered, and broke into an ecstatic giggle that
                        would have resulted in a court-martial had she been serving any commander
                        but Love.
                    With a plenteous supply of Southern idioms she succeeded in making them
                        understand that the major had promised to let her visit friends in the
                        legation at St. Petersburg in April a month or so after the departure of the
                        Lorrys.
                    "He wanted to know where I'd rather spend the Spring ---
                        Washin'ton or Lexin'ton, and I told him St. Petersburg. We
                        had a terrific discussion and neither of us ate a speck at dinner. Mamma
                        said it would be all right for me to go to St. Petersburg if Aunt Josephine
                        was still of a mind to go, too. You see, Auntie was scared almost out of her
                        boots when she heard there was prospect of war in Graustark, just as though
                        a tiny little war like that could make any difference away up in Russia ---
                        hundreds of thousands of miles away ---" (with a scornful wave of
                        the hand) --- "and then I just made Auntie say she'd go to
                        St. Petersburg in April --- a whole month sooner than she expected to go in
                        the first place --- and ----"
                    "You dear, dear Beverly!" cried Yetive, rushing joyously
                        around the table to clasp her in her arms.
                    "And St. Petersburg really isn't a hundred thousand miles
                        from Edelweiss," cried Beverly, gaily.
                    "It's much less than that," said Lorry, smiling.
                             "But you surely don't
                        expect to come to Edelweiss if we are fighting. We couldn't think
                        of letting you do that, you know. Your mother would never---- "
                    "My mother wasn't afraid of a much bigger war than yours
                        can ever hope to be," cried Beverly, resentfully. "You
                        can't stop me if I choose to visit Graustark."
                    Does your father know that you contemplate such a trip" asked Lorry,
                        returning her handclasp and looking doubtfully into the swimming blue eyes
                        of his wife.
                    "No, he doesn't," admitted Beverly, a trifle
                        aggressively.
                    "He could stop you, you know," he suggested. Yetive was
                        discreetly silent.
                    "But he won't know anything about it," cried
                        Beverly triumphantly.
                    "I could tell him, you know," said Lorry.
                    "No, you couldn't do anything so mean as
                        that," announced Beverly. " You're not that
                        sort."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    ON THE ROAD FROM BALAK
                    A PONDEROUS coach lumbered slowly, almost painfully, along the narrow road
                        that skirted the base of a mountain. It was drawn by four horses, and upon
                        the seat sat two rough, unkempt Russians, one holding the reins, the other
                        lying back in a lazy doze. The month was June and all the world seemed soft
                        and sweet and joyous. To the right flowed a turbulent mountain stream,
                        boiling savagely with the alien waters of the blood season. Ahead of the
                        creaking coach rode four horsemen, all heavily armed; another quartette
                        followed some distance in the rear. At the side of the coach an officer of
                        the Russian mounted police was riding easily, jangling his accoutrements
                        with a vigor that disheartened at least one occupant of the vehicle. The
                        windows of the coach doors were lowered, permitting the fresh mountain air
                        to caress fondly the face of the young woman who tried to find comfort in
                        one of the broad seats. Since early morn she had struggled with the
                        hardships of that seat, and the late afternoon found her very much out of
                        patience. The opposite seat was the resting place of a substantial colored
                        woman and a stupendous pile of  bags and boxes.
                        The boxes were continually toppling over and the bags were forever getting
                        under feet of the once placid servant, whose face, quite luckily, was much
                        too black to reflect the anger she was able, otherwise, through years of
                        practice, to conceal.
                    "How much farther have we to go, lieutenant?" asked the
                        girl on the rear seat, plaintively, even humbly. The man was very deliberate
                        with his English. He had been recommended to her as the best linguist in the
                        service at Radovitch, and he had a reputation to sustain.
                    "It another hour is but yet," he managed to inform her,
                        with a confident smile.
                    " Oh, dear," she sighed, "a whole hour of
                        this!"
                    "We soon be dar, Miss Bev'ly; jes' yo'
                        mak' up yo' mine to res' easy-like, an'
                        we ---" but the faithful old colored woman's advice was
                        lost in the wrathful exclamation that accompanied another dislodgment of
                        bags and boxes. The wheels of the coach had dropped suddenly into a deep
                        rut. Aunt Fanny's growls were scarcely more potent than poor Miss
                        Beverly's moans.
                    " It is getting worse and worse," exclaimed Aunt
                        Fanny's mistress, petulantly. "I'm black and blue
                        from head to foot, aren't you, Aunt Fanny?"
                    "Ah cain' say as to de blue, Miss Bev'ly.
                        Hit's a mos' monstrous bad road, sho 'nough. Stay
                        up dar, will yo'!" she concluded, jamming a bag into an
                        upper corner.
                    Miss Calhoun, tourist extraordinary, again consulted the linguist in the
                        saddle. She knew at the outset that the quest would be hopeless, but she
                        could  think of no better way to pass the next
                        hour than to extract a mite of information from the officer.
                    "Now for a good old chat," she said, beaming a smile upon
                        the grizzled Russian. "Is there a decent hotel in the
                        village?" she asked.
                    They were on the edge of the village before she succeeded in finding out all
                        that she could, and it was not a great deal, either. She learned that the
                        town of Balak was in Axphain, scarcely a mile from the Graustark line. There
                        was an eating and sleeping house on the main street, and the population of
                        the place did not exceed three hundred.
                    When Miss Beverly awoke the next morning, sore and distressed, she looked
                        back upon the night with a horror that sleep had been kind enough to
                        interrupt only at intervals. The wretched hostelry lived long in her secret
                        catalogue of terrors. Her bed was not a bed; it was a torture. The room, the
                        table, the --- but it was all too odious for description. Fatigue was her
                        only friend in that miserable hole. Aunt Fanny had slept on the floor near
                        her mistress's cot, and it was the good old colored
                        woman's grumbling that awoke Beverly. The sun was climbing up the
                        mountains in the east, and there was an air of general activity about the
                        place. Beverly's watch told her that it was past eight
                        o'clock.
                    "Good gracious!" she exclaimed. "It's
                        nearly noon, Aunt Fanny. Hurry along here and get me up. We must leave this
                        abominable place in ten minutes." She was up and racing about
                        excitedly.
                    
                    "Befo' breakfas'?" demanded Aunt Fanny
                        weakly.
                    "Goodness, Aunt Fanny, is that all you think about?"
                    "Well, honey, yo' all be thinkin' moughty serious
                        'bout breakfas' 'long to'ahds
                        'leben o'clock. Dat li'l tummy o' yourn
                        'll be pow'ful mad 'cause yo'
                        didn'----"
                    "Very well, Aunt Fanny, you can run along and have the woman put up
                        a breakfast for us and we'll eat it on the road. I positively
                        refuse to eat another mouthful in that awful dining-room. I'll be
                        down in ten minutes."
                    She was down in less. Sleep, no matter how hard-earned, had revived her
                        spirits materially. She pronounced herself ready for anything; there was a
                        wholesome disdain for the rigors of the coming ride through the mountains in
                        the way she gave orders for the start. The Russian officer met her just
                        outside the entrance to the inn. He was less English than ever, but he
                        eventually gave her to understand that he had secured permission to escort
                        her as far as Ganlook, a town in Graustark not more than fifteen miles from
                        Edelweiss and at least two days from Balak. Two competent Axphainian guides
                        had been retained, and the party was quite ready to start. He had been
                        warned of the presence of brigands in the wild mountainous passes north of
                        Ganlook. The Russians could go no farther than Ganlook because of a royal
                        edict from Edelweiss forbidding the nearer approach of armed forces. At that
                        town, however, he was sure she  easily could
                        obtain an escort of Graustarkian soldiers.
                    As the big coach crawled up the mountain road and further into the oppressive
                        solitudes, Beverly Calloun drew from the difficult lieutenant considerable
                        information concerning the state of affairs in Graustark. She had been
                        eagerly awaiting the time when something definite could be learned. Before
                        leading St. Petersburg early in the week she was assured that a state of war
                        did not exist. The Princess Yetive had been in Edelweiss for six weeks. A
                        formal demand was framed soon after her return from America, requiring
                        Dawsbergen to surrender the person of Prince Gabriel to the authorities of
                        Graustark. To this demand there was no definite response, Dawsbergen
                        insolently requesting time in which to consider the proposition. Axphain
                        immediately sent an envoy to Edelweiss to say that all friendly relations
                        between the two governments would cease unless Graustark took vigorous steps
                        to recapture the royal assassin. On one side of the unhappy principality a
                        strong, overbearing princess was egging Graustark on to fight, while on the
                        other side an equally aggressive people defied Yetive to come and take the
                        fugitive if she could. The poor princess was between two ugly alternatives,
                        and a struggle seemed inevitable. At Balak it was learned that Axphain had
                        recently sent a final appeal to the government of Graustark, and it was no
                        secret that something like a threat accompanied the message.
                    Prince Gabriel was in complete control at Serros and was disposed to laugh at
                        the demands of his late  captors. His
                        half-brother, the dethroned Prince Dantan, was still hiding in the
                        fastnesses of the hills, protected by a small company of nobles, and there
                        was no hope that he ever could regain his crown. Gabriel's power
                        over the army was supreme. The general public admired Dantan, but it was
                        helpless in the face of circumstances.
                    "But why should Axphain seek to harass Graustark at this time?quot;
                        demanded Beverly Calhoun, in perplexity and wrath. "I should think
                        the brutes would try to help her."
                    "There is an element of opposition to the course the government is
                        taking," the officer informed her in his own way, "but it
                        is greatly in the minority. The Axphainians have hated Graustark since the
                        last war, and the princess despises this American. It is an open fact that
                        the Duke of Mizrox leads the opposition to Princess Volga, and she is sure
                        to have him beheaded if the chance affords. He is friendly to Graustark and
                        has been against the policy of his princess from the start."
                    "I'd like to hug the Duke of Mizrox," cried
                        Beverly, warmly. The officer did not understand her, but Aunt Fanny was
                        scandalized.
                    "Good Lawd!" she muttered to the boxes and bags.
                    As the coach rolled deeper and deeper into the rock-shadowed wilderness,
                        Beverly Calhoun felt an undeniable sensation of awe creeping over her. The
                        brave, impetuous girl had plunged gaily into the proj-  ect which now led her into the deadliest of
                        uncertainties, with but little thought of the consequences.
                    The first stage of the journey by coach had been good fun. They had passed
                        along pleasant roads, through quaint villages and among interesting people,
                        and progress had been rapid. The second stage had presented rather
                        terrifying prospects, and the third day promised even greater vicissitudes.
                        Looking from the coach windows out upon the quiet, desolate grandeur of her
                        surroundings, poor Beverly began to appreciate how abjectly helpless and
                        alone she was. Her companions were ugly, vicious-looking men, any one of
                        whom could inspire terror by a look. She had entrusted herself to the care
                        of these strange creatures in the moment of inspired courage and now she was
                        constrained to regret her action. True, they had proved worthy protectors as
                        far as they had gone, but the very possibilities that lay in their power
                        were appalling, now that she had time to consider the situation.
                    The officer in charge had been recommended as a trusted servant of the Czar;
                        an American consul had secured the escort for her direct from the frontier
                        patrol authorities. Men high in power had vouched for the integrity of the
                        detachment, but all this was forgotten in the mighty solitude of the
                        mountains. She was beginning to fear her escort more than she feared the
                        brigands of the hills.
                    Treachery seemed printed on their backs as they rode ahead of her. The big
                        officer was ever polite and alert, but she was ready to distrust him on the
                        slight-  est excuse. These men could not help
                        knowing that she was rich, and it was reasonable for them to suspect that
                        she carried money and jewels with her. In her mind's eye she could
                        picture these traitors rifling her bags and boxes in some dark pass, and
                        then there were other horrors that almost petrified her when she allowed
                        herself to think of them.
                    Here and there the travelers passed by rude cots where dwelt woodmen and
                        mountaineers, and at long intervals a solitary but picturesque horseman
                        stood aside and gave them the road. As the coach pene- trated deeper into
                        the gorge, signs of human life and activity became fewer. The sun could not
                        send his light into this shadowy tomb of granite. The rattle of the wheels
                        and the clatter of the horses' hoofs sounded like a constant crash
                        of thunder in the ears of the tender traveler, a dainty morsel among hawks
                        and wolves.
                    There was an unmistakable tremor in her voice when she at last found heart to
                        ask the officer where they were to spend the night. It was far past noon and
                        Aunt Fanny had suggested opening the lunch-baskets. One of the guides was
                        called back, the leader being as much in the dark as his charge.
                    "There is no village within twenty miles," he said,
                        "and we must sleep in the pass."
                    Beverly's voice faltered. "Out here in all this
                        awful-----" Then she caught herself quickly. It came to her
                        suddenly that she must not let these men see that she was apprehensive. Her
                        voice was a trifle shrill and her eyes glistened with a strange new light
                             as she went on, changing her tack
                        completely: "How romantic! I've often wanted to do
                        something like this."
                    The officer looked bewildered, and said nothing. Aunt Fanny was speechless.
                        Later on, when the lieutenant had gone ahead to confer with the guides about
                        the suspicious actions of a small troop of horse-men they had seen, Beverly
                        confided to the old negress that she was frightened almost out of her boots,
                        but that she'd die before the men should see a sign of cowardice in
                        a Calhoun. Aunt Fanny was not so proud and imperious. It was with difficulty
                        that her high-strung young mistress suppressed the wails that long had been
                        under restraint in Aunt Fanny's huge and turbulent bosom.
                    "Good Lawd, Miss Bev'ly, dey'll chop us all to
                        pieces an' take ouah jewl'ry an' money
                        an' clo'es and ev'ything else we done got about
                        us. Good Lawd, le's tu'n back, Miss Bev'ly. We
                        ain' got no mo' show out heah in dese mountings dan
                        a-----"
                    "Be still, Aunt Fanny!" commanded Beverly, with a fine show
                        of courage." You must be brave. Don't you see we
                        can't turn back? It's just as dangerous and a heap sight
                        more so. If we let on we're not one bit afraid they'll
                        respect us, don't you se , and men never harm women whom they
                        respect."
                    "Umph!" grunted Aunt Fanny, with exaggerated irony.
                    "Well, they never do!" maintained Beverly, who was not at
                        all sure about it. "And they look like  real nice men --- honest men, even though they have such awful
                        whiskers."
                    "Dey's de wust trash Ah evch did see," exploded
                        Aunt Fanny.
                    "Sh! Don't let them hear you," whispered
                        Beverly.
                    In spite of her terror and perplexity, she was compelled to smile. It was all
                        so like the farce comedies one sees at the theatre.
                    As the officer rode up, his face was pale in the shadowy light of the
                        afternoon and he was plainly very nervous.
                    "What is the latest news from the front?" she inquired
                        cheerfully.
                    "The men refuse to ride on," he exclaimed, speaking
                        rapidly, making it still harder for her to understand. "Our advance
                        guard has met a party of hunters from Axphain. They insist that you ----
                        'the fine lady in the coach' --- are the Princess Yetive,
                        returning from a secret visit to St. Petersburg, where you went to plead for
                        assistance from the Czar."
                    Beverly Calhoun gasped in astonishment. It was too incredible to believe. It
                        was actually ludicrous. She laughed heartily. "How perfectly
                        absurd."
                    "I am well aware that you are not the Princess Yetive," he
                        continued emphatically; "but what can I do; the men won't
                        believe me. They swear they have been tricked and are panic-stricken over
                        the situation. The hunters tell them that the Axphain authorities, fully
                        aware of the hurried flight of the Princess through these wilds, are
                        preparing to inter-  cept her. A large
                        detachment of soldiers are already across the Graustark frontier. It is only
                        a question of time before the 'red legs' will be upon
                        them. I have assured them that their beautiful charge is not the Princess,
                        but an American girl, and that there is no mystery about the coach and
                        escort. All in vain. The Axpliain guides already feel that their heads are
                        on the block; while as for the Cossacks, not even my dire threats of the
                        awful anger of the White Czar, when lie finds they have disobeyed his
                        commands, will move them."
                    "Speak to your men once more, sir, and promise them big purses of
                        gold when we reach Ganlook. I have no money or valuables with me; but there
                        I can obtain plenty," said Beverly, shrewdly thinking it better
                        that they should believe her to be without funds.
                    The cavalcade had halted during this colloquy. All the men were ahead
                        conversing sullenly and excitedly with much gesticulation. The driver, a
                        stolid creature, seemingly indifferent to all that was going on, alone
                        remained at his post. The situation, apparently dangerous, was certainly
                        most annoying. But if Beverly could have read the mind of that silent figure
                        on the box, she would have felt slightly relieved, for he was infinitely
                        more anxious to proceed than even she; but from far different reasons. He
                        was a Russian convict, who had escaped on the way to Siberia. Disguised as a
                        coachman he was seeking life and safety in Graustark, or any out-of-the-way
                        place. It mattered little to him where the escort concluded to  go. He was going ahead. He dared not go back --- he
                        must go on.
                    At the end of half an hour, the officer returned; all hope had gone from his
                        face. "It is useless!" he cried out. "The guides
                        refuse to proceed. See! They are going off with their countrymen! We are
                        lost without them. I do not know what to do. We cannot get to Ganlook; I do
                        not know the way, and the danger is great. Ah! Madam! Here they come! The
                        Cossacks are going back."
                    As he spoke, the surly mutineers were riding slowly towards the coach. Every
                        man had his pistol on the high pommel of the saddle. Their faces wore an
                        ugly look. As they passed the officer, one of them, pointing ahead of him
                        with his sword, shouted savagely, "Balak!"
                    It was conclusive and convincing. They were deserting her. "Oh, oh,
                        oh! The cowards!" sobbed Beverly in rage and despair. "I
                        must go on! Is it possible that even such men would leave ----"
                    She was interrupted by the voice of the officer, who, raising his cap to her,
                        commanded at the same time the driver to turn his horses and follow the
                        escort to Balak.
                    "What is that?" demanded Beverly in alarm.
                    From far off came the sound of firearms. A dozen shots were fired, and
                        reverberated down through the gloomy pass ahead of the coach.
                    "They are fighting somewhere in the hills in front of us,"
                        answered the now frightened officer. Turn-  ing
                        quickly, he saw the deserting horsemen halt, listen a minute, and then spur
                        their horses. He cried out sharply to the driver, "Come, there!
                        Turn round! We have no time to lose!"
                    With a savage grin, the hitherto motionless driver hurled some insulting
                        remark at the officer, who was already following his men, now in full flight
                        down the road, and settling himself firmly on the seat, taking a fresh grip
                        of the reins, he yelled to his horses, at the same time lashing them
                        furiously with his whip, and started the coach ahead at a fearful pace. His
                        only thought was to get away as far as possible from the Russian officer,
                        then deliberately desert the coach and its occupants and take to the
                        hills.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    THE RAGGED RETINUE
                    THOROUGHLY mystified by the action of the driver and at length terrified by
                        the pace that carried them careening along the narrow road, Beverly cried
                        out to him, her voice shrill with alarm. Aunt Fanny was crouching on the
                        floor of the coach, between the seats, groaning and praying.
                    "Stop! Where are you going?" cried Beverly, putting her
                        head recklessly through the window. If the man heard her he gave no evidence
                        of the fact. His face was set forward and he was guiding the horses with a
                        firm, unquivering hand. The coach rattled and bounded along the dangerous
                        way hewn in the side of the mountain. A misstep or a false turn might easily
                        start the clumsy vehicle rolling down the declivity on the right. The
                        convict was taking desperate chances, and with a cool, calculating brain,
                        prepared to leap to the ground in case of accident and save himself, without
                        a thought for the victims inside.
                    "Stop! Turn around!" she cried in a frenzy. "We
                        shall be killed. Are you crazy?"
                    
                    By this time they had struck a descent in the road and were rushing along at
                        breakneck speed into oppressive shadows that bore the first imprints of
                        night. Realizing at last that her cries were falling upon purposely deaf
                        ears, Beverly Calhoun sank back into the seat, weak and terror-stricken. It
                        was plain to her that the horses were not running away, for the man had been
                        lashing them furiously. There was but one conclusion: he was deliberately
                        taking her farther into tile mountain fastnesses, his purpose known only to
                        himself. A hundred terrors presented themselves to her as she lay huddled
                        against the side of the coach, her eyes closed tightly, her tender body
                        tossed furiously about with the sway of the vehicle. There was the
                        fundamental fear that she would be dashed to death down the side of the
                        mountain, but apart from this her quick brain was evolving all sorts of
                        possible endings --- none short of absolute disaster. Even as she prayed
                        that something might intervene to check the mad rush and to deliver her from
                        the horrors of the moment, the raucous voice of the driver was heard calling
                        to his horses and the pace became slower. The awful rocking and the jolting
                        grew less severe, the clatter resolved itself into a broken rumble, and then
                        the coach stopped with a mighty lurch. Dragging herself from the corner,
                        poor Beverly Calhoun, no longer a disdainful heroine, gazed piteously out
                        into the shadows, expecting the murderous blade of the driver to meet her as
                        she did so. Pauloff had swung from the box of the coach and was peer-  ing first into the woodland below and then
                        upon the rocks to the left. He wore the expression of a man trapped and
                        seeking means of escape. Suddenly he darted behind the coach, almost
                        brushing against Beverly's hat as he passed the window. She opened
                        her lips to call to him, but even as she did so he took to his heels and
                        raced back over the road they had traveled so precipitously.
                    Overcome by surprise and dismay, she only could watch the flight in silence.
                        Less than a hundred feet from where the coach was standing he turned to the
                        right and was lost among the rocks. Ahead, four horses, covered with sweat,
                        were panting and heaving as if in great distress after their mad run. Aunt
                        Fanny was still moaning and praying by turns in the bottom of the carriage.
                        Darkness was settling down upon the pass, and objects a hundred yards away
                        were swallowed by the gloom. There was no sound save the blowing of the
                        tired animals and the moaning of the old negress. Beverly realized with a
                        sinking heart that they were alone and helpless in the mountains with night
                        upon them.
                    She never knew where the strength and courage came from, but she forced open
                        the stubborn coach-door and scrambled to the ground, looking frantically in
                        all directions for a single sign of hope. In the most despairing terror she
                        had ever experienced, she started toward the lead horses, hoping against
                        hope that at least one of her men had remained faithful. A man stepped
                        quietly from the inner side of the road and advanced with the uncertain
                        tread of one  who is overcome by amazement. He
                        was a stranger, and wore an odd, uncouth garb. The failing light told her
                        that he was not one of her late protectors. She shrank back with a faint cry
                        of alarm, ready to fly to the protecting arms of hopeless Aunt Fanny if her
                        uncertain legs could carry her. At the same instant another ragged stranger,
                        then two, three, four, or five, appeared as if by magic, some near her,
                        others approaching from the shadows.
                    "Who --- who in heaven's name are you?" she
                        faltered. The sound of her own voice in a measure restored the courage that
                        had been paralyzed. Unconsciously this slim sprig of southern valor threw
                        back her shoulders and lifted her chin. If they were brigands they should
                        not find her a cringing coward. After all, she was a Calhoun.
                    The man she had first observed stopped near the horses' heads and
                        peered intently at her from beneath a broad and rakish hat. He was tall and
                        appeared to be more respectably clad than his fellows, although there was
                        not one who looked as though he possessed a complete outfit of wearing
                        apparel.
                    "Poor wayfarers, may it please your highness," replied the
                        tall vagabond, bowing low. To her surprise he spoke in very good English;
                        his voice was clear, and there was a tinge of polite irony in the tones.
                        "But all people are alike in the mountains. The king and the thief,
                        the princess and the jade live in the common fold," and his hat
                        swung so low that it touched the ground.
                    " I am powerless. I only implore you to take 
                        
                            "Who --- who in heaven's name, are you?"
                                she faltered.
                        
                         what valuables you may find and let us proceed
                        unharmed ----" she cried, rapidly, eager to have it over.
                    "Pray, how can your highness proceed? You have no guide, no driver,
                        no escort," said the man, mockingly. Beverly looked at him
                        appealingly, utterly without words to reply. The tears were welling to her
                        eyes and her heart was throbbing like that of a captured bird. In after life
                        she was able to picture in her mind's eye all the details of that
                        tableau in the mountain pass --- the hopeless coach, the steaming horses,
                        the rakish bandit, and his picturesque men, the towering crags, and a mite
                        of a girl facing the end of everything.
                    "Your highness is said to be brave, but even your wonderful courage
                        can avail nothing in this instance," said the leader, pleasantly.
                        "Your escort has fled as though pursued by something stronger than
                        shadows; your driver has deserted; your horses are half-dead; you are
                        indeed, as you have said, powerless. And you are, besides all these, in the
                        clutches of a band of merciless cutthroats."
                    " Oh," moaned Beverly, suddenly leaning against the fore
                        wheel, her eyes almost starting from her head. The leader laughed quietly
                        --- yes, good-naturedly. "Oh, you won't --- you
                        won't kill us?" She had time to observe that there were
                        smiles on the faces of all the men within the circle of light.
                    "Rest assured, your highness," said the leader, leaning
                        upon his rifle-barrel with careless grace, "we intend no harm to
                        you. Every man you meet in  Graustark is not a
                        brigand, I trust, for your sake. We are simple hunters, and not what we may
                        seem. It is fortunate that you have fallen into honest hands. There is
                        someone in the coach?" he asked, quickly alert. A prolonged groan
                        proved to Beverly that Aunt Fanny had screwed up sufficient courage to look
                        out of the window.
                    "My old servant," she half whispered. Then, as several of
                        the men started toward the door: "But she is old and
                        wouldn't harm a fly. Please, please don't hurt
                        her."
                    "Compose yourself; she is safe," said the leader. By this
                        time it was quite dark. At a word from him two or three men lighted
                        lanterns. The picture was more weird than ever in the fitful glow.
                        "May I ask, your highness, how do you intend to reach Edelweiss in
                        your present condition. You cannot manage those horses, and besides, you do
                        not know the way."
                    "Aren't you going to rob us?" demanded Beverly,
                        hope springing to the surface with a joyful bound. The stranger laughed
                        heartily, and shook his head.
                    "Do we not look like honest men?" he cried, with a wave of
                        his hand toward his companions. Beverly looked dubious. "We live
                        the good, clean life of the wilderness. Out-door life is necessary for our
                        health. We could not live in the city," he went on with grim humor.
                        For the first time, Beverly noticed that he wore a huge black patch over his
                        left eye, held in place by a cord. He appeared more formidable than ever
                        under the light of critical inspection.
                    
                    "I am very much relieved," said Beverly, who was not at all
                        relieved. "But why have you stopped us in this
                        manner?"
                    "Stopped you?" cried the man with the patch. "I
                        implore you to unsay that, your highness. Your coach was quite at a
                        standstill before we knew of its presence. You do us a grave
                        injustice."
                    "It's very strange," muttered Beverly, somewhat
                        taken aback.
                    "Have you observed that it is quite dark?" asked the
                        leader, putting away his brief show of indignation.
                    "Dear me; so it is!" cried she, now able to think more
                        clearly.
                    "And you are miles from an inn or house of any kind," he
                        went on. "Do you expect to stay here all night?"
                    "I'm --- I'm not afraid," bravely
                        shivered Beverly.
                    "It is most dangerous."
                    "I have a revolver," the weak little voice went on.
                    "Oho! What is it for?"
                    "To use in case of emergency."
                    "Such as repelling brigands who suddenly appear upon the
                        scene?"
                    "Yes."
                    "May I ask why you did not use it this evening?"
                    "Because it is locked up in one of my bags --- I don't know
                        just which one --- and Aunt Fanny has the key," confessed
                        Beverly.
                    The chief of the "honest men" laughed again, a clear,
                        ringing laugh that bespoke supreme confidence in his right to enjoy
                        himself.
                    
                    "And who is Aunt Fanny?" he asked, covering his patch
                        carefully with his slouching hat.
                    "My servant. She's colored."
                    "Colored?" he asked in amazement. "What do you
                        mean?"
                    "Why, she's a negress. Don't you know what a
                        colored person is?"
                    "You mean she is a slave --- a black slave?"
                    "We don't own slaves any mo' --- more."
                        He looked more puzzled than ever --- then at last, to satisfy himself,
                        walked over and peered into the coach. Aunt Fanny set up a dismal howl; an
                        instant later Sir Honesty was pushed aside, and Miss Calhoun was anxiously
                        trying to comfort her old friend through the window. The man looked on in
                        silent wonder for a minute, and then strode off to where a group of his men
                        stood talking.
                    "Is yo' daid yit, Miss Bev'ly --- is de end
                        came?" moaned Aunt Fanny. Beverly could not repress a smile.
                    "I am quite alive, Auntie. These men will not hurt us. They are very nice gentlemen." She uttered the last
                        observation in a loud voice and it had its effect, for the leader came to
                        her side with long strides.
                    "Convince your servant that we mean no harm, your
                        highness," he said eagerly, a new deference in his voice and
                        manner. "We have only the best of motives in mind. True, the hills
                        are full of lawless fellows and we are obliged to fight them almost daily,
                        but you have fallen in with honest men --- very nice  gentlemen, I trust. Less than an hour ago we put a
                        band of robbers to flight ----"
                    "I heard the shooting," cried Beverly. "It was
                        that which put my escort to flight."
                    "They could not have been soldiers of Graustark, then, your
                        highness," quite gallantly.
                    "They were Cossacks, or whatever you call them. But, pray, why do
                        you call me 'your highness'?" demanded Beverly.
                        The tall leader swept the ground with his hat once more.
                    "All the outside world knows the Princess Yetive --- why not the
                        humble mountain man? You will pardon me, but every man in the hills knows
                        that you are to pass through on the way from St. Petersburg to Ganlook. We
                        are not so far from the world, after all, we rough people of the hills. We
                        know that your highness left St. Petersburg by rail last Sunday and took to
                        the highway day before yesterday, because the floods had washed away the
                        bridges north of Axphain. Even the hills have eyes and ears."
                    Beverly listened with increasing perplexity. It was true that she had left
                        St. Petersburg on Sunday; that the unprecedented floods had stopped all
                        railway traffic in the hills, compelling her to travel for many miles by
                        stage, and that the whole country was confusing her in some strange way with
                        the Princess Yetive. The news had evidently sped through Axphain and the
                        hills with the swiftness of fire. It would he useless to deny the story;
                        these men would not believe her. In a flash she decided that it would be
                        best to pose for the time being as the ruler of  Graustark. It remained only for her to impress upon Aunt Fanny the
                        importance of this resolution."
                    What wise old hills they must be," she said, with evasive
                        enthusiasm. "You cannot expect me to admit, however, that I am the
                        princess," she went on.
                    "It would not be just to your excellent reputation for tact if you
                        did so, your highness," calmly spoke the man. "It is quite
                        as easy to say that you are not the princess as to say that you are, so what
                        matters, after all? We reserve the right, however, to do homage to the queen
                        who rules over these wise old hills. I offer you the humble services of
                        myself and my companions. We are yours to command."
                    "I am very grateful to find that you are not brigands, believe
                        me," said Beverly. "Pray tell me who you are, then, and
                        you shall be sufficiently rewarded for your good intentions."
                    "I? Oh, your highness, I am Baldos, the goat-hunter, a poor subject
                        for reward at your hands. I may as well admit that I am a poacher, and have
                        no legal right to the prosperity of your hills. The only reward I can ask is
                        forgiveness for trespassing upon the property of others."
                    "You shall receive pardon for all transgressions. But you must get
                        me to some place of safety," said Beverly, eagerly.
                    "And quickly, too, you might well have added," he said,
                        lightly. "The horses have rested, I think, so with your permission
                        we may proceed. I know of a place where you may spend the night comfortably
                        and be refreshed for the rough journey to-morrow."
                    
                    "To-morrow? How can I go on? I am alone," she cried,
                        despairingly.
                    " Permit me to remind you that you are no longer alone. You have a
                        ragged following, your highness, but it shall be a loyal one. Will you
                        re-enter the coach? It is not far to the place I speak of, and I myself will
                        drive you there. Come, it is getting late, and your retinue, at least, is
                        hungry."
                    He flung open the coach door, and his hat swept the ground once more. The
                        light of a lantern played fitfully upon his dark, gaunt face, with its
                        gallant smile and ominous patch. She hesitated, fear entering her soul once
                        more. He looked up quickly and saw the indecision in her eyes, the mute
                        appeal.
                    "Trust me, your highness," he said, gravely, and she
                        allowed him to hand her into the coach.
                    A moment later he was upon the driver's box, reins in hand. Calling
                        out to his companions in a language strange to Beverly, he cracked the whip,
                        and once more they were lumbering over the wretched road. Beverly sank back
                        into the seat with a deep sigh of resignation.
                    "Well, I'm in for it," she thought. "It
                        doesn't matter whether they are thieves or angels, I reckon
                        I'll have to take what comes. He doesn't look very much
                        like an angel, but he looked at me just now as if he thought I were one.
                        Dear me, I wish I were back in Washin'ton!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V.
                    THE INN OF THE HAWK AND RAVEN
                    TWO of the men walked close beside the door, one of them bearing a lantern.
                        They conversed in low tones and in a language which Beverly could not
                        understand. After awhile she found herself analyzing the garb and manner of
                        the men. She was saying to herself that here were her first real specimens
                        of Graustark peasantry, and they were to mark an ineffaceable spot in her
                        memory. They were dark, strong-faced men of medium height, with fierce,
                        black eyes and long black hair. As no two were dressed alike, it was
                        impossible to recognize characteristic styles of attire. Some were in the
                        rude, baggy costumes of the peasant as she had imagined him; others were
                        dressed in the tight-fitting but dilapidated uniforms of the soldiery, while
                        several were in clothes partly European and partly Oriental. There were hats
                        and fezzes and caps, some with feathers in the bands, others without. The
                        man nearest the coach wore the dirty gray uniform of an army officer, full
                        of holes and rents, while another strode along in a  pair of baggy yellow trousers and a dusty London
                        Dinner jacket. All in all, it was the motliest band of vagabonds she had
                        ever seen. There were at least ten or a dozen in the party. While a few
                        carried swords, all lugged the long rifles and crooked daggers of the
                        Tartars.
                    "Aunt Fanny," Beverly whispered, suddenly moving to the
                        side of the subdued servant, "where is my revolver?" It
                        had come to her like a flash that a subsequent emergency should not find her
                        unprepared. Aunt Fanny's jaw dropped, and her eyes were like white
                        rings in a black screen.
                    "Good Lawd --- wha --- what fo', Miss Bev'ly
                        ---"
                    "Sh! Don't call me Miss Bev'ly. Now, just you pay
                        'tention to me and I'll tell you something queer. Get my
                        revolver right away, and don't let those men see what you are
                        doing." While Aunt Fanny's trembling fingers went in
                        search of the firearm, Beverly outlined the situation briefly but
                        explicitly. The old woman was not slow to understand. Her wits sharped by
                        fear, she grasped Beverly's instructions with astonishing
                        avidity.
                    "Ve'y well, yo' highness," she said with
                        fine reverence, "Ah'll p'ocuah de bottle
                        o' pepp'mint fo' yo' if yo' jes
                        don' mine me pullin' an' haulin'
                        'mongst dese boxes. Mebbe yo' all 'druther hab de
                        gingeh?" With this wonderful subterfuge as a shield she dug slyly
                        into one of the bags and pulled forth a revolver. Under ordinary
                        circumstances she would have been mortally afraid to touch it, but not so in
                        this emer-  gency. Beverly shoved the weapon
                        into the pocket of her gray traveling jacket.
                    "I feel much better now, Aunt Fanny," she said, and Aunt
                        Fanny gave a vast chuckle.
                    "Yas, ma'am, indeed,--- yo' highness,"
                        she agreed, suavely.
                    The coach rolled along for half an hour, and then stopped with a sudden jolt.
                        An instant later the tall driver appeared at the window, his head uncovered.
                        A man hard by held a lantern.
                    "Qua vandos ar deltanet, yos serent,"
                        said the leader, showing his white teeth in a triumphant smile. His exposed
                        eye seemed to be glowing with pleasure and excitement.
                    "What?" murmured Beverly, hopelessly. A puzzled expression
                        came into his face. Then his smile deepened and his eye took on a knowing
                        gleam.
                    "Ah, I see," he said, gaily, "your highness
                        prefers not to speak the language of Graustark. Is it necessary for me to
                        repeat in English?"
                    "I really wish you would," said Beverly, catching her
                        breath. "Just to see how it sounds, you know."
                    "Your every wish shall be gratified. I beg to inform you that we
                        have reached the Inn of the Hawk and Raven. This is where we dwelt last
                        night. Tomorrow we, too, abandon the place, so our fortunes may run together
                        fcr some hours, at least. There is but little to offer you in the way of
                        nourishment, and there are none of the comforts of a palace. Yet princesses
                        can no more be choosers than beggars when the fare's in one pot.
                        Come, your highness, let me  conduct you to the
                        guest chamber of the Inn of the Hawk and Raven."
                    Beverly took his hand and stepped to the ground, looking about in wonder and
                        perplexity.
                    "I see no inn," she murmured apprehensively.
                    "Look aloft, your highness. That great black canopy is the roof; we
                        are standing upon the floor, and the dark shadows just beyond the circle of
                        light are the walls of the Hawk and Raven. This is the largest tavern in all
                        Graustark. Its dimensions are as wide as the world itself."
                    "You mean that there is no inn at all?" the girl cried in
                        dismay.
                    "Alas, I must confess it. And yet there is shelter here. Come with
                        me. Let your servant follow." He took her by the hand, and led her
                        away from the coach, a ragged lantern-bearer preceding. Beverly's
                        little right hand was rigidly clutching the revolver in her pocket. It was a
                        capacious pocket, and the muzzle of the weapon bored defiantly into a timid
                        powder-rag that lay on the bottom. The little leather purse from which it
                        escaped had its silver lips opened as if in a broad grin of derision,
                        reveling in the plight of the chamois. The guide's hand was at once
                        firm and gentle, his stride bold, yet easy. His rakish hat, with its
                        aggressive red feather, towered a full head above Beverly's
                        Parisian violets.
                    "Have you no home at all --- no house in which to sleep? "
                        Beverly managed to ask.
                    "I live in a castle of air," said he, waving his hand
                        gracefully. "I sleep in the house of my fathers."
                    
                    "You poor fellow," cried Beverly, pityingly. He laughed and
                        absently patted the hilt of his sword.
                    She heard the men behind them turning the coach into the glen through which
                        they walked carefully. Her feet fell upon a soft, grassy sward and the
                        clatter of stones was now no longer heard. They were among the shadowy
                        trees, gaunt trunks of enormous size looming up in the light of the
                        lanterns. Unconsciously her thoughts went over to the Forest of Arden and
                        the woodland home of Rosalind, as she had imagined it to be. Soon there came
                        to her ears the swish of waters, as of some turbulent river hurrying by.
                        Instinctively she drew back and her eyes were set with alarm upon the black
                        wall of night ahead. Yetive had spoken more than once of this wilderness.
                        Many an unlucky traveler had been lost forever in its fastnesses.
                    "It is the river, your highness. There is no danger. I will not lead
                        you into it," he said, a trifle roughly. "We are low in
                        the valley and there are marshes yonder when the river is in its natural
                        bed. The floods have covered the low grounds, and there is a torrent coming
                        down from the hills. Here we are, your highness. This is the Inn of the Hawk
                        and Raven."
                    He bowed and pointed with his hat to the smouldering fire a short distance
                        ahead. They had turned a bend in the overhanging cliff, and were very close
                        to the retreat before she saw the glow.
                    The fire was in the open air and directly in front of a deep cleft in the
                        rocky background. Judging  by the sound, the
                        river could not be more than two hundred feet away. Men came up with
                        lanterns and others piled brush upon the fire. In a very short time the glen
                        was weirdly illuminated by the dancing flames. From her seat on a huge log,
                        Beverly was thus enabled to survey a portion of her surroundings. The
                        overhanging ledge of rock formed a wide, deep canopy, underneath which was
                        perfect shelter. The floor seemed to be rich, grassless loam, and here and
                        there were pallets of long grass, evidently the couches of these homeless
                        men. All about were huge trees, and in the direction of the river the grass
                        grew higher and then gave place to reeds. The foliage above was so dense
                        that the moon and stars were invisible. There was a deathly stillness in the
                        air. The very loneliness was so appalling that Beverly's poor
                        little heart was in a quiver of dread. Aunt Fanny, who sat near by, had not
                        spoken since leaving the coach, but her eyes were expressively active.
                    The tall leader stood near the fire, conversing with half a dozen of his
                        followers. Miss Calhoun's eyes finally rested upon this central
                        figure in the strange picture. He was attired in a dark-gray uniform that
                        reminded her oddly of the dragoon choruses in the comic operas at home. The
                        garments, while torn and soiled, were well-fitting. His shoulders were broad
                        and square, his hips narrow, his legs long and straight. There was an air of
                        impudent grace about him that went well with his life and profession.
                        Surely, here was a careless freelance upon whom life weighed lightly, while
                        death "stood afar off" and 
                        despaired. The light of the fire brought his gleaming face into bold relief,
                        for his hat was off. Black and thick was his hair, rumpled and apparently
                        uncared for. The face was lean, smooth and strong, with a devil-may-care
                        curve at the corners of the mouth. Beverly found herself lamenting the fact
                        that such an interesting face should be marred by an ugly black patch,
                        covering she knew not what manner of defect. As for the rest of them, they
                        were a grim company. Some were young and beardless, others were old and
                        grizzly, but all were active, alert and strong. The leader appeared to be
                        the only one in the party who could speak and understand the English
                        language. As Beverly sat and watched his virile, mocking face, and studied
                        his graceful movements, she found herself wondering how an ignorant,
                        homeless wanderer in the hills could be so poetic and so cultured as this
                        fellow seemed to be.
                    Three or four men, who were unmistakably of a lower order than their
                        companions, set about preparing a supper. Others unhitched the tired horses
                        and led them off toward the river. Two dashing young fellows carried the
                        seat-cushions under the rocky canopy and constructed an elaborate couch for
                        the "Princess." The chief, with his own hands, soon began
                        the construction of a small chamber in this particular corner of the cave,
                        near the opening. The walls of the chamber were formed of carriage robes and
                        blankets, cloaks and oak branches.
                    "The guest chamber, your highness," he said, ap-  proaching her with a smile at the conclusion of his
                        work.
                    "It has been most interesting to watch you," she said,
                        rising.
                    "And it has been a delight to interest you," he responded.
                        "You will find seclusion there, and you need see none of us until
                        it pleases you."
                    She looked him fairly in the eye for a moment, and then impulsively extended
                        her hand. He clasped it warmly, but not without some show of surprise.
                    "I am trusting you implicitly," she said.
                    "The knave is glorified," was his simple rejoinder. He
                        conducted her to the improvised bed-chamber, Aunt Fanny following with loyal
                        but uncertain tread. "I regret, your highness, that the
                        conveniences are so few. We have no landlady except Mother Earth, no
                        waiters, no porters, no maids, in the Inn of the Hawk and Raven. This being
                        a men's hotel, the baths are on the river-front. I am having water
                        brought to your apartments, however, but it is with deepest shame and sorrow
                        that I confess we have no towels."
                    She laughed so heartily that his face brightened perceptibly, whilst the
                        faces of his men turned in their direction as though by concert.
                    "It is a typical mountain resort, then," she said.
                        "I think I can manage very well if you will fetch my bags to my
                        room, sir."
                    "By the way, will you have dinner served in your room?"
                        very good-humoredly.
                    " If you don't mind, I'd like to eat in the public
                             dining-room," said she. A few
                        minutes later Beverly was sitting upon one of her small trunks and Aunt
                        Fanny was laboriously brushing her dark hair.
                    "It's very jolly being a princess," murmured Miss
                        Calhoun. She had bathed her face in one of the leather buckets from the
                        coach, and the dust of the road had been brushed away by the vigorous
                        lady-in-waiting.
                    "Yas, ma'am, Miss --- yo' highness, hit's
                        monstrous fine fo' yo', but whar is Ah goin' to
                        sleep? Out yondah, wif all dose scalawags?" said Aunt Fanny,
                        rebelliously.
                    "You shall have a bed in here, Aunt Fanny," said
                        Beverly.
                    " Dey's de queeres' lot o' tramps Ah eveh
                        did see, an' Ah wouldn' trust 'em 's fer
                        as Ah could heave a brick house."
                    "But the leader is such a very courteous gentleman,"
                        remonstrated Beverly.
                    "Yas, ma'am; he mussa came f'm Gawgia or
                        Kentuck," was Aunt Fanny's sincere compliment.
                    The pseudo-princess dined with the vagabonds that night. She sat on the log
                        beside the tall leader, and ate heartily of the broth and broiled goatmeat,
                        the grapes and the nuts, and drank of the spring water which took the place
                        of wine and coffee and cordial. It was a strange supper amid strange
                        environments, but she enjoyed it as she had never before enjoyed a meal. The
                        air was full of romance and danger, and her imagination was enthralled.
                        Everything was so new and unreal that she scarcely could believe herself  awake. The world seemed to have gone back to
                        the days of Robin Hood and his merry men.
                    "You fare well at the Inn of the Hawk and Raven," she said
                        to him, her voice tremulous with excitement. He looked mournfully at her for
                        a moment and then smiled naively.
                    "It is the first wholesome meal we have had in two days,"
                        he replied.
                    "You don't mean it!"
                    "Yes. We were lucky with the guns to-day. Fate was kind to us ---
                        and to you, for we are better prepared to entertain royalty to-day than at
                        any time since I have been in the hills of Graustark."
                    "Then you have not always lived in Graustark?"
                    "Alas, no, your highness. I have lived elsewhere."
                    "But you were born in the principality?"
                    "I am a subject of its princess in heart from this day forth, but
                        not by birth or condition. I am a native of the vast domain known to a few
                        of us as Circumstance," and he smiled rather recklessly.
                    "You are a poet, a delicious poet," cried Beverly,
                        forgetting herself in her enthusiasm.
                    "Perhaps that is why I am hungry and unshorn. It had not occurred to
                        me in that light. When you are ready to retire, your highness," he
                        said, abruptly rising, "we shall be pleased to consider the Inn of
                        the Hawk and Raven closed for the night. Having feasted well, we should
                        sleep well. We have a hard day before us. With your consent, I shall place
                        my couch of grass near your door. I am the porter. You have but to call if
                        anything is desired."
                    
                    She was tired, but she would have sat up all night rather than miss any of
                        the strange romance that had been thrust upon her. But Sir
                        Red-feather's suggestion savored of a command and she reluctantly
                        made her way to the flapping blanket that marked the entrance to the
                        bed-chamber. He drew the curtain aside, swung his hat low and muttered a
                        soft good- night.
                    "May your highness's dreams be pleasant ones!" he
                        said.
                    "Thank you," said she, and the curtain dropped
                        impertinently. "That was very cool of him, I must say,"
                        she added, as she looked at the wavering door.
                    When she went to sleep, she never knew; she was certain that her eyes were
                        rebellious for a long time and that she wondered how her gray dress would
                        look after she had slept in it all night. She heard low singing as if in the
                        distance, but after a while the stillness became so intense that its
                        pressure almost suffocated her. The rush of the river grew louder and louder
                        and there was a swishing sound that died in her ears almost as she wondered
                        what it meant. Her last waking thoughts were of the
                        "black-patch" poet. Was he lying near the door?
                    She was awakened in the middle of the night by the violent flapping of her
                        chamber door. Startled, she sat bolt upright and strained her eyes to pierce
                        the mysterious darkness. Aunt Fanny, on her bed of grass, stirred
                        convulsively, but did not awake. The blackness of the strange chamber was
                        broken ever and anon by faint flashes of light from without, and  she lived through long minutes of terror before it
                        dawned upon her that a thunderstorm was brewing. The wind was rising, and
                        the night seemed agog with excitement. Beverly crept from her couch and felt
                        her way to the fluttering doorway. Drawing aside the blanket she peered
                        forth into the night, her heart jumping with terror. Her highness was very
                        much afraid of thunder and lightning.
                    The fire in the open had died down until naught remained but a few glowing
                        embers. These were blown into brilliancy by the wind, casting a steady red
                        light over the scene. There was but one human figure in sight. Beside the
                        fire stood the tall wanderer. He was hatless and coatless, and his arms were
                        folded across his chest. Seemingly oblivious to the approach of the storm,
                        he stood staring into the heap of ashes at his feet. His face was toward
                        her, every feature plainly distinguishable in the faint glow from the fire.
                        To her amazement the black patch was missing from the eye; and, what
                        surprised her almost to the point of exclaiming aloud, there appeared to be
                        absolutely no reason for its presence there at any time. There was no mark
                        or blemish upon or about the eye; it was as clear and penetrating as its
                        fellow, darkly gleaming in the red glow from below. Moreover, Beverly saw
                        that he was strikingly handsome --- a strong, manly face. The highly
                        imaginative southern girl's mind reverted to the first portraits of
                        Napoleon she had seen.
                    Suddenly he started, threw up his head and looking up to the sky uttered some
                        strange words. Then he  strode abruptly toward
                        her doorway. She fell back breathless. He stopped just outside, and she knew
                        that he was listening for sounds from within. After many minutes she
                        stealthily looked forth again. He was standing near the fire, his back
                        toward her, looking off into the night.
                    The wind was growing stronger; the breezes fanned the night into a rush of
                        shivery coolness. Constant flickerings of lightning illuminated the forest,
                        transforming the tree-tops into great black waves. Tall reeds along the
                        river bank began to bend their tops, to swing themselves gently to and from
                        the wind. In the lowlands down from the cave "will o' the
                        wisps" played tag with "Jack o' the
                        lanterns," merrily scampering about in the blackness, reminding her
                        of the revellers in a famous Brocken scene. Low moans grew out of the havoc,
                        and voices seemed to speak in unintelligible whispers to the agitated twigs
                        and leaves. The secrets of the wind were being spread upon the records of
                        the night; tales of many climes passed through the cars of Nature.
                    From gentle undulations the marshland reeds swept into lower dips, danced
                        wilder minuets, lashed each other with infatuated glee, mocking the whistle
                        of the wind with an angry swish of their tall bodies. Around the cornices of
                        the Inn of the Hawk and Raven scurried the singing breezes, reluctant to
                        leave a playground so pleasing to the fancy. Soon the night became a
                        cauldron, a surging, hissing, roaring receptacle in which were mixing the
                        ingredients of disaster. Night-birds flapped through the moaning  tree-tops, in search of shelter; reeds were flattened
                        to the earth, bowing to the sovereignty of the wind; clouds roared with the
                        rumble of a million chariots, and then the sky and the earth met in one of
                        those savage conflicts that make all other warfare seem as play.
                    As Beverly sank back from the crash, she saw him throw his arms aloft as
                        though inviting the elements to mass themselves and their energy upon his
                        head. She shrieked involuntarily and he heard the cry above the carnage.
                        Instantly his face was turned in her direction.
                    "Help! Help!" she cried. He bounded toward the swishing
                        robes and blankets, but his impulse had found a rival in the blast. Like a
                        flash the walls of the guest chamber were whisked away, scuttling off into
                        the night or back into the depths of the cavern. With the deluge came the
                        man. From among the stifling robes he snatched her up and bore her away, she
                        knew not whither.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    THE HOME OF THE LION
                    MAY all storms be as pleasant as this one!" she heard someone say,
                        with a merry laugh. The next instant she was placed soundly upon her feet. A
                        blinding flash of lightning revealed Baldos, the goat-hunter, at her side,
                        while a dozen shadowy figures were scrambling to their feet in all corners
                        of the Hawk and Raven. Someone was clutching her by the dress at the knees.
                        She did not have to look down to know that it was Aunt Fanny.
                    "Goodness!" gasped the princess, and then it was pitch dark
                        again. The man at her side called out a command in his own language, and
                        then turned his face close to hers.
                    "Do not be alarmed. We are quite safe now. The royal bed-chamber has
                        come to grief, however, I am sorry to say. What a fool I was not to have
                        foreseen all this! The storm has been brewing since midnight," he
                        was saying to her.
                    "Isn't it awful?" cried Beverly, between a moan
                        and a shriek.
                    "They are trifles after one gets used to them,"  he said. "I have come to be quite at home in
                        the tempest. There are other things much more annoying, I assure your
                        highness. We shall have lights in a moment." Even as he spoke, two
                        or three lanterns began to flicker feebly.
                    "Be quiet, Aunt Fanny; you are not killed at all,"
                        commanded Beverly, quite firmly.
                    "De house is suah to blow down, Miss --- yo'
                        highness," groaned the trusty maidservant. Beverly laughed bravely
                        but nervously with the tall goat-hunter. He at once set about making his
                        guest comfortable and secure from the effects of the tempest, which was now
                        at its height. Her couch of cushions was dragged far back into the cavern
                        and the rescued blankets, though drenched, again became a screen.
                    "Do you imagine that I'm going in there while this storm
                        rages?" Beverly demanded, as the work progressed.
                    "Are you not afraid of lightning? Most young women
                        are."
                    "That's the trouble. I am afraid of it. I'd much
                        rather stay out here where there is company. You don't mind, do
                        you?"
                    "Paradise cannot be spurned by one who now feels its warmth for the
                        first time," said he, gallantly. "Your fear is my delight.
                        Pray sit upon our throne. It was once a humble carriage pail of leather, but
                        now it is exalted. Besides, it is much more comfortable than some of the
                        gilded chairs we hear about."
                    "You are given to irony, I fear," she said, observing a
                        peculiar smile on his lips.
                    
                    " I crave pardon, your highness," he said, humbly.
                        "The heart of the goat-hunter is more gentle than his wit. I shall
                        not again forget that you are a princess and I the veriest
                        beggar."
                    "I didn't mean to hurt you!" she cried, in
                        contrition, for she was a very poor example of what a princess is supposed
                        to be.
                    "There is no wound, your highness," he quickly said. With a
                        mocking grace that almost angered her, he dropped to his knee and motioned
                        for her to be seated. She sat down suddenly, clapping her hands to her ears
                        and shutting her eyes tightly. The crash of thunder that came at that
                        instant was the most fearful of all, and it was a full minute before she
                        dared to lift her lids again. He was standing before her, and there was
                        genuine compassion in his face. "It's terrible,"
                        he said. "Never before have I seen such a storm. Have courage, your
                        highness; it can last but little longer."
                    "Goodness!" said the real American girl, for want of
                        something more expressive.
                    "Your servant has crept into your couch, I fear. Shall I sit here at
                        your feet? Perhaps you may feel a small sense of security if I
                        ----"
                    "Indeed, I want you to sit there," she cried. He forthwith
                        threw himself upon the floor of the cave, a graceful, respectful guardian.
                        Minutes went by without a word from either. The noise of the storm made it
                        impossible to speak and be heard. Scattered about the cavern were his
                        outstretched followers, doubtless asleep once more in all this turmoil. With
                             the first lull in the war of the elements,
                        Beverly gave utterance to the thought that long had been struggling for
                        release.
                    "Why do you wear that horrid black patch over your eye?"
                        she asked, a trifle timidly. He muttered a sharp exclamation and clapped his
                        hand to his eye. For the first time since the beginning of their strange
                        acquaintanceship Beverly observed downright confusion in this debonair
                        knight of the wilds.
                    "It has --- has slipped off,----" he stammered, with a
                        guilty grin. His merry insolence was gone, his composure with it. Beverly
                        laughed with keen enjoyment over the discomfiture of the shame-faced
                        vagabond.
                    "You can't fool me," she exclaimed, shaking her
                        finger at him in the most unconventional way. "It was intended to
                        be a disguise. There is absolutely thing the matter with your
                        eye."
                    He was speechless for a moment, recovering himself. Wisdom is conceived in
                        silence, and he knew this. Vagabond or gentleman, he was a clever actor.
                    "The eye is weak, your highness, and I cover it m the daytime to
                        protect it from the sunlight," he said, coolly.
                    "That's all very nice, but it looks to be quite as as the
                        other. And what is more, sir, you are not putting the patch over the same
                        eye that wore it when first saw you. It was the left eye at sunset. Does the
                        trouble transfer after dark?"
                    He broke into an honest laugh and hastily moved the black patch across his
                        nose to the left eye.
                    
                    "I was turned around in the darkness, that's all,"
                        he said, serenely. "It belongs over the left eye, and I am deeply
                        grateful to you for discovering the error."
                    "I don't see any especial reason why you should wear it
                        after dark, do you? There is no sunlight, I'm sure."
                    "I am dazzled, nevertheless," he retorted.
                    "Fiddlesticks!" she said. "This is a cave, not a
                        drawing-room."
                    "In other words, I am a lout and not a courtier," he
                        smiled. "Well, a lout may look at a princess. We have no court
                        etiquette in the hills, I am sorry to say."
                    "That was very unkind, even though you said it most
                        becomingly," she protested. "You have called this pail a
                        throne. Let us also imagine that you are a courtier."
                    "You punish me most gently, your highness. I shall not forget my
                        manners again, believe me." He seemed thoroughly subdued.
                    "Then I shall expect you to remove that horrid black thing. It is
                        positively villainous. You look much better without it."
                    "Is it an edict or a compliment?" he asked with such deep
                        gravity that she flushed.
                    "It is neither," she answered. "You don't
                        have to take it off unless you want to ----"
                    "In either event, it is off. You were right. It serves as a partial
                        disguise. I have many enemies and the black patch is a very good
                        friend."
                    
                    " How perfectly lovely," cried Beverly." Tell me
                        all about it. I adore stories about feuds and all that."
                    "Your husband is an American. He should be able to keep you well
                        entertained with blood-and-thunder stories," said he.
                    "My hus --- What do you --- Oh, yes!" gasped Beverly.
                        "To be sure. I didn't hear you, I guess. That was rather a
                        severe clap of thunder, wasn't it?"
                    "Is that also a command?"
                    "What do you mean?"
                    "There was no thunderclap, you know."
                    "Oh, wasn't there?" helplessly.
                    "The storm is quite past. There is still a dash of rain in the air
                        and the wind may be dying hard, but aside from that I think the noise is
                        quite subdued."
                    "I believe you are right. How sudden it all was."
                    "There are several hours between this and dawn, your highness, and
                        you should try to get a little more sleep. Your cushions are dry and
                        ----"
                    "Very well, since you are so eager to get rid of ----"
                        began Beverly, and then stopped, for it did not sound particularly regal.
                        "I should have said, you are very thoughtful. You will call me if I
                        sleep late?"
                    "We shall start early, with your permission. It is forty miles to
                        Ganlook, and we must be half way there by nightfall."
                    "Must we spend another night like this?" cried Beverly,
                        dolefully.
                    "Alas, I fear you must endure us another night. I  am afraid, however, we shall not find quarters as
                        comfortable as these of the Hawk and Raven."
                    " I didn't mean to be ungrateful and --- er ---
                        snippish," she said, wondering if he knew the meaning of the
                        word.
                    "No?" he said politely, and she knew he did not ---
                        whereupon she felt distinctly humbled.
                    "You know you speak such excellent English," she said
                        irrelevantly.
                    He bowed low. As he straightened his figure, to his amazement, he beheld an
                        agonizing look of horror on her face; her eyes riveted on the mouth of the
                        cavern. Then, there came an angrier sound, unlike any that had gone before
                        in that night of turmoil.
                    "Look there! Quick!"
                    The cry of terror from the girl's palsied lips, as she pointed to
                        something behind him, awoke the mountain man to instant action.
                        Instinctively, he snatched his long dagger from its sheath and turned
                        quickly. Not twenty feet from them a huge cat-like beast stood half crouched
                        on the edge of the darkness, his long tail switching angrily. The feeble
                        light from the depth of the cave threw the long, water-soaked visitor into
                        bold relief against the black wall beyond. Apparently, he was as much
                        surprised as the two who glared at him, as though frozen to the spot. A
                        snarling whine, a fierce growl, indicated his fury at finding his shelter
                        --- his lair occupied.
                    "My God! A mountain lion! Ravone! Franz! To me!" he cried
                        hoarsely, and sprang before her shouting loudly to the sleepers.
                    
                    A score of men, half awake, grasped their weapons and struggled to their feet
                        in answer to his call. The lion's gaunt body shot through the air.
                        In two bounnds, he was upon the goat-hunter. Baldos stood squarely and
                        firmly to meet the rush of the maddened beast, his long dagger poised for
                        the death-dealing blow.
                    "Run!" he shouted to her.
                    Beverly Calhoun had fighting blood in her veins. Utterly unconscious of her
                        action, at the time, she quickly drew the little silver-handled revolver
                        from pocket of her gown. As man, beast and knife came together, in her
                        excitement she fired recklessly at the combatants without any thought of the
                        imminent danger of killing her protector. There was a wild scream of pain
                        from the wounded beast, more pistol shots, fierce yells from the excited
                        hunters, the rush of feet and then the terrified and almost frantic girl
                        staggered and fell against the rocky wall. Her wide gray eyes were fastened
                        upon the writhing lion and the smoking pistol was tightly clutched in her
                        hand.
                    It had all occurred in such an incredible short space time that she could not
                        yet realize what had happened.
                    Her heart and brain seemed paralyzed, her limbs stiff and immovable. Like the
                        dizzy whirl of a kaleidoscope, the picture before her resolved itself into
                        shape.
                    The beast was gasping his last upon the rocky floor, the hilt of the goat
                        hunter's dagger protruding from his side. Baldos, supported by two
                        of his men, stood  above the savage victim, his
                        legs covered with blood. The cave was full of smoke and the smell of powder.
                        Out of the haze she began to see the light of understanding. Baldos alone
                        was injured. He had stood between her and the rush of the lion, and he had
                        saved her, at a cost she knew not how great.
                    "Oh, the blood!" she cried hoarsely. "Is it --- is
                        it --- are you badly hurt?" She was at his side, the pistol falling
                        from her nervous fingers.
                    "Don't come nea me; I'm all right," he
                        cried quickly.
                    "Take care --- your dress ----"
                    "Oh, I'm so glad to hear you speak! Never mind the dress!
                        You are torn to pieces! You must be frightfully hurt. Oh, isn't it
                        terrible --- horrible! Aunt Fanny! Come here this minute!"
                    Forgetting the beast and throwing off the paralysis of fear, she pushed one
                        of the men away and grasped the arm of the injured man. He winced
                        perceptibly and she felt something warm and sticky on her hands. She knew it
                        was blood, but it was not in her to shrink at a moment like this.
                    "Your arm, too!" she gasped. He smiled, although his face
                        was white with pain. "How brave you were! You might have been ---
                        I'll never forget it --- never! Don't stand there, Aunt
                        Fanny! Quick! Get those cushions for him. He's hurt."
                    "Good Lawd!" was all the old woman could say, but she
                        obeyed her mistress.
                    "It was easier than it looked, your highness," murmured
                        Baldos. "Luck was with me. The knife 
                        went to his heart. I am merely scratched. His leap was short, but he caught
                        me above the knees with his claws. Alas, your highness, these trousers of
                        mine were bad enough before, but now they are in sreds. What patching I
                        shall have to do! And you may well imagine we are short of thread and
                        needles and thimbles ----"
                    "Don't jest, for heaven's sake! Don't
                        talk like that. Here! Lie down upon these cushions and ----"
                    "Never! Desecrate the couch of Graustark's ruler? I, the
                        poor goat-hunter? I'll use the lion for a pillow and the rock for
                        an operating table. In ten minutes my men can have these scratches dressed
                        and bound --- in fact, there is a surgical student among them, poor fellow.
                        I think I am his first patient. Ravone, attend me."
                    He threw himself upon the ground and calmly placed his head upon the body of
                        the animal.
                    "I insist upon your taking these cushions," cried
                        Beverly.
                    "And I decline irrevocably." She stared at him positive
                        anger. "Trust Ravone to dress these fling wounds, your highness. He
                        may not be as gentle, but he is as firm as any princess in all the world
                        "
                    "But your arm?" she cried. "Didn't you
                        say it was your legs? Your arm is covered with blood, too. Oh, dear me,
                        I'm afraid you are frightfully wounded."
                    "A stray bullet from one of my men struck me  there, I think. You know there was but little time
                        for aiming -----"
                    Wait! Let me think a minute! Good heavens!" she exclaimed with a
                        start. Her eyes were suddenly filled with tears and there was a break in her
                        voice. "I shot you! Don't deny it --- don't! It
                        is the right arm, and your men could not have hit it from where they stood.
                        Oh, oh, oh!"
                    Baldos smiled as he bared his arm. "Your aim was good," he
                        admitted. "Had not my knife already been in the lion's
                        heart, your bullet would have gone there. It is my misfortune that my arm
                        was in the way. Besides, your highness, it has only cut through the skin ---
                        and a little below, perhaps. It will be well in a day or two. I am sure you
                        will find your bullet in the carcass of our lamented friend, the probable
                        owner of this place."
                    Ravone, a hungry-looking youth, took charge of the wounded leader, while her
                        highness retreated to the farthest corner of the cavern. There she sat and
                        trembled while the wounds were being dressed. Aunt Fanny bustled back and
                        forth, first unceremoniously pushing her way through the circle of men to
                        take observations, and then reporting to the impatient girl. The storm had
                        passed and the night was still, except for the rush of the river; raindrops
                        fell now and then from the trees, glstening like diamonds as they touched
                        the light from the cavern's mouth. It was all very dreary, uncanny
                        and oppressive to poor Beverly. Now and then she caught herself sobbing,
                        more out of shame and humilition than in sadness,  for had she not shot the man who stepped between her
                        and death? What must he think of her?
                    "He says yo' all 'd betteh go to baid, Miss Bev
                        --- yo' highness," said Aunt Fanny after one of her
                        trips.
                    "Oh, he does, does he?" sniffed Beverly.
                        "I'll go to bed when I please. Tell him so. No, no ---
                        don't do it, Aunt Fanny! Tell him I'll go to bed when
                        I'm sure he is quite comfortable, not before."
                    "But he's jes' a goat puncheh er a
                        ----"
                    "He's a man, if there ever was one. Don't let me
                        hear you call him a goat puncher again. How are his legs?" Aunt
                        Fanny was almost stunned by this amazing question from her ever-decorous
                        mistress. "Why don't you answer? Will they have to be cut
                        off? Didn't you see them?"
                    "Fo' de Lawd's sake, missy, co'se Ah did,
                        but yo' all kindeh susprise me. Dey's p'etty bad
                        skun up, missy; de hide's peeled up consid'ble. But hit
                        ain' dang'ous, --- no, ma'am. Jes' skun,
                        'at's all."
                    " And his arm --- where I shot him?"
                    "Puffec'ly triflin', ma'am,---
                        yo' highness. Cobwebs 'd stop de bleedin'
                        an' Ah tole 'em so, but 'at felleh
                        couldn' un'stan' me. Misteh
                        what's-his-name, he says something to de docteh, an' den
                        dey goes afteh de cobwebs, suah 'nough. 'Tain'
                        bleedin' no mo', mssy. He's mostes' neah
                        doin' ve'y fine. Co'se, he cain' walk
                        fo' sev'l days wiv dem laigs o' his'n,
                        but ----"
                    "Then, in heaven's name, how are we to get to
                        Edelweiss?"
                    
                    "He c'n ride, ain't he? Wha's to hindeh
                        him?"
                    "Quite right. He shall ride inside the coach. Go and see if I can do
                        anything for him."
                    Aunt Fanny returned in a few minutes.
                    "He says yo'll do him a great favoh if yo'
                        jes' go to baid. He sends his 'spects an' hopes
                        yo' slumbeh won' be distubbed
                        ag'in."
                    "He's a perfect brute!" exclaimed Beverly, but she
                        went over and crawled under the blankets and among the cushions the wounded
                        man had scorned.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    SOME FACTS AND FANCIES
                    THERE was a soft, warm, yellow glow to the world when Beverly Calhoun next
                        looked upon it. The sun from his throne in the mountain tops was smiling
                        down upon the valley the night had ravaged while he was on the other side of
                        the earth. The leaves of the trees were a softer green, the white of the
                        rocks and the yellow of the road were of a gentler tint; the brown and green
                        reeds were proudly erect once more.
                    The stirring of the mountain men had awakened Aunt Fanny, and she in turn
                        called her mistress from the surprisingly peaceful slumber into which
                        perfect health had sent her not so many hours before. At the entrance to the
                        improvised bedchamber stood buckets of water from the spring.
                    "We have very thoughtful chambermaids," remarked Beverly
                        while Aunt Fanny was putting her hair into presentable shape. "And
                        an energetic cook," she added as the odor of broiled meat came to
                        her nostrils.
                    
                    "Ah cain' see nothin' o' dat beastes,
                        Miss Beverly --- an' --- Ah --- Ah got mah suspicions,"
                        said Aunt Fanny, with sepulchral despair in her voice.
                    "They've thrown the awful thing into the river,"
                        concluded Beverly.
                    "Dey's cookin' hit!" said Aunt Fanny
                        solemnly.
                    "Good heaven, no!" cried Beverly. "Go and see,
                        this minute. I wouldn't eat that catlike thing for the whole
                        world." Aunt Fanny came back a few minutes later with the assurance
                        that they were roasing goat meat. The skin of the midnight visitor was
                        stretched upon the ground not far away.
                    "And how is he?" asked Beverly, jamming a hat pin through a
                        helpless bunch of violets.
                    "He's ve'y 'spectably skun, yo'
                        highness."
                    "I don't mean the animal, stupid."
                    "Yo' mean 'at Misteh Goat man? He's
                        settin' up an' chattin' as if nothin'
                        happened. He says to me 'at we staht on ouah way jes' as
                        soon as yo' all eats yo' b'eakfus'. De
                        hosses is hitched up an' -----"
                    "Has everybody else eaten? Am I the only one that
                        hasn't?" cried Beverly.
                    "'Ceptin' me, yo' highness. Ah'm
                        as hungry as a poah man's dawg, an' -----"
                    "And he is being kept from the hospital because I am a lazy,
                        good-for-nothing little --- Come on, Aunt Fanny; we haven't a
                        minute to spare. If he looks very ill, we do without
                        breakfast."
                    But Baldos was the most cheerful man in the party. He was sitting with his
                        back against a tree, his right  arm in a sling
                        of woven reeds, his black patch set upon the proper eye.
                    "You will pardon me for not rising," he said cheerily,
                        "but, your highness, I am much too awkward this morning to act as
                        befitting a courtier in the presence of his sovereign. You have slept
                        well?"
                    "Too well, I fear. So well, in fact, that you have suffered for it.
                        Can't we start at once?" She was debating within herself
                        whether it would be quite good form to shake hands with the reclining hero.
                        In the glare of the broad daylight he and his followers looked more ragged
                        and famished than before, but they also appeared more picturesquely
                        romantic.
                    "When you have eaten of our humble fare, your highness, --- the last
                        meal at the Hawk and Raven."
                    "But I'm not a bit hungry."
                    "It is very considerate of you, but equally unreasonable. You must
                        eat before we start."
                    "I can't bear the thought of your suffering when we should
                        be hurrying to a hospital and competent surgeons." He laughed
                        gaily. "Oh, you needn't laugh. I know it hurts. You say we
                        cannot reach Ganlook before to-morrow? Well, we can't stop here a
                        minute longer than we --- Oh, thank you!" A ragged servitor had
                        placed a rude bowl of meat and some fruit before her.
                    "Sit down here, your highness, and prepare yourself for a long fast.
                        We may go until nightfall without food. The game is scarce and we dare not
                        venture far into the hills."
                    Beverly sat at his feet and daintily began the opera-  tion of picking a bone with her pretty fingers and
                        teeth. "I am sorry we have no knives and forks," he
                        apologized.
                    "I don't mind," said she. "I wish you
                        would remove that black patch."
                    "Alas, I must resume the hated disguise. A chance enemy might
                        recognize me."
                    "Your --- your clothes have been mended," she remarked with
                        a furtive glance at his long legs. The trousers had been rudely sewed up and
                        no bandages were visible. "Are you --- your legs terribly
                        hurt?"
                    "They are badly scratched, but not seriously. The bandages are
                        skilfully placed," he added, seeing her look of doubt.
                        "Ravone is a genius."
                    "Well, I'll hurry," she said, blushing deeply.
                        Goat-hunter though he was and she a princess, his eyes gleamed with the joy
                        of her beauty and his heart thumped with a most unruly admiration.
                        "You were very, very brave last night," she said at last
                        --- and her rescuer smiled contentedly.
                    She was not long in finishing the rude but wholesome meal, and then announced
                        her readiness to be on the way. With the authority of a genuine princess she
                        commanded him to ride inside the coach, gave incomprehensible directions to
                        the driver and to the escort, and would listen to none of his protestations.
                        When the clumsy vehicle was again in the highway and bumping over the ridges
                        of flint, the goat-hunter was beside his princess on the rear seat, his feet
                        upon the opposite cushions near Aunt Fanny, a well-arranged  bridge of boxes and bags providing support for his
                        long legs.
                    "We want to go to a hospital," Beverly had said to the
                        driver, very much as she might have spoken had been in Washington. She was
                        standing bravely beside the forewheel, her face flushed and eager. Baldos,
                        from his serene position on the cushions, watched with kindling eyes. The
                        grizzled driver grinned and shook his head despairingly. "Oh,
                        pshaw! You don't understand, do you? Hospital ---
                        h-o-s-p-i-t-a-l," she spelt it out for him, and still he shook his
                        head. Others in the'motley retinue were smiling broadly.
                    "Speak to him in your own language, your highness and he will be
                        sure to understand," ventured the patient.
                    "I am speaking in my --- I mean, I prefer to speak English. Please
                        tell him to go to a hospital," she said confusedly. Baldos gave a
                        few jovial instructions, and then the raggedest courtier of them all handed
                        Beverly into the carriage with a grace that amazed her.
                    "You are the most remarkable goat-hunters I have seen," she
                        remarked in sincere wonder.
                    "And you speak the most perfect English I've ever
                        heard" he replied.
                    "Oh, do you really think so? Miss Grimes used say I was hopeless.
                        You know I had a --- a tutor," she hastily explained.
                        "Don't you think it strange we've met no Axphain
                        soldiers?" she went on, changing the subject abruptly.
                    
                    "We are not yet out of the woods," he said.
                    "That was a purely American aphorism," she cried, looking
                        at him intently. "Where did you learn all your
                        English?"
                    "I had a tutor," he answered easily.
                    "You are a very odd person," she sighed. "I
                        don't believe that you are a goat-hunter at all."
                    "If I were not a goat-hunter I should have starved long
                        ago," he said. "Why do you doubt me?"
                    "Simply because you treat me one moment as if I were a princess, and
                        the next as if I were a child. Humble goat-hunters do not forget their
                        station in life."
                    "I have much to learn of the deference due to queens," he
                        said.
                    "That's just like 'The Mikado' or
                        'Pinafore,'" she exclaimed. "I believe
                        you are a comic-opera brigand or a pirate chieftain, after
                        all."
                    "I am a lowly outcast," he smiled.
                    "Well, I've decided to take you into Edelweiss and
                        ----"
                    "Pardon me, your highness," he said firmly. "That
                        cannot be. I shall not go to Edelweiss."
                    "But I command you ----"
                    "It's very kind of you, but I cannot enter a hospital ---
                        not even at Ganlook. I may as well confess that I am a hunted man and that
                        the instructions are to take me dead or alive."
                    "Impossible!" she gasped, involuntarily shrinking from
                        him.
                    "I have wronged no man, yet I am being hunted  down as though I were a beast," he said, his
                        face turning haggard for the moment. "The hills of Graustark, the
                        plateaus of Axphain and the valleys of Dawsbergen are alive with men who are
                        bent on ending my unhappy but inconvenient existence. It would be suicide
                        for me to enter any one of your towns or cities. Even you could not protect
                        me, I fear."
                    "This sounds like a dream. Oh, dear me, you don't look like
                        a hardened criminal," she cried.
                    "I am the humble leader of a faithful band who die with me when the
                        time comes. We are not criminals, your highness. In return for what service
                        I may have performed for you, I implore you to question me no further. Let
                        me be your slave up to the walls of Ganlook, and then you may forget Baldos,
                        the goat-hunter."
                    "I never can forget you," she cried, touching his injured
                        arm gently. "Will you forget the one who gave you this
                        wound?"
                    "It is a very gentle wound, and I love it so that pray it may never
                        heal." She looked away suddenly.
                    "Tell me one thing," she said, a mist coming over her eyes.
                        "You say they are hunting you to the death. Then --- then your
                        fault must be a grievous one. Have you --- have you killed a man?"
                        she added hastily. He was silent for a long time.
                    "I fear I have killed more than one man," he said in low
                        tones. Again she shrank into the corner of coach. "History says
                        that your father was a  brave soldier and
                        fought in many battles," he went on.
                    "Yes," she said, thinking of Major George Calhoun.
                    "He killed men then, perhaps, as I have killed them," he
                        said.
                    "Oh, my father never killed a man!" cried Beverly, in
                        devout horror.
                    "Yet Graustark reveres his mighty prowess on the field of
                        battle," said he, half laconically.
                    "Oh," she murmured, remembering that she was now the
                        daughter of Yetive's father. "I see. You are not a --- a
                        --- a mere murderer, then?"
                    "No. I have been a soldier --- that is all."
                    "Thank heaven!" she murmured, and was no longer afraid of
                        him. "Would --- would a pardon be of any especial benefit to
                        you?" she asked, wondering how far her influence might go with the
                        Princess Yetive.
                    "It is beyond your power to help me," he said gravely. She
                        was silent, but it was the silence of deep reflection. "Your
                        highness left the castle ten days ago," he said, dismissing himself
                        as a subject for conversation. "Have you kept in close
                        communication with Edelweiss during that time?"
                    "I know nothing of what is going on there," she said, quite
                        truthfully. She only knew that she had sent a message to the Princess
                        Yetive, apprising her of her arrival in St. Petersburg and of her intention
                        to leave soon for the Graustark capital."
                    Then you do not know that Mr. Lorry is still on the Dawsbergen frontier in
                        conference with rep-  resentatives from Serros.
                        He may not return for a week, so Colonel Quinnox brings back
                        word."
                    "It's news to me," murmured Beverly.
                    "You do not seem to be alarmed," he ventured. "Yet
                        I fancy it is not a dangerous mission, although Prince Gabriel is ready to
                        battle at a moment's notice."
                    "I have the utmost confidence in Mr. Lorry," said Beverly,
                        with proper pride.
                    "Baron Dangloss, your minister of police, is in these mountains
                        watching the operations of Axphain scouts and spies."
                    "Is he? You are very well posted, it seems."
                    "Moreover, the Axphainians are planning to attack Ganlook upon the
                        first signal from their ruler. I do t wish to alarm your highness, but we
                        may as well expect trouble before we come to the Ganlook gates. You are
                        known to be in the pass, and I am certain an effort will be made to take
                        possession of your person."
                    "They wouldn't dare!" she exclaimed.
                        "Uncle Should annihilate them in a week."
                    "Uncle Sam? Is he related to your Aunt Fanny? I'm afraid he
                        could do but little against Volga's fighting men," he
                        said, with a smile.
                    "They'd soon find out who Uncle Sam is if they touch
                        me," she threatened grandly. He seemed puzzled, but was too polite
                        to press her for explanations. "But, he is a long way off and
                        couldn't do much if we were suddenly attacked from ambush, could
                        he? What would they do to me if I were taken, as you suggest?" she
                        was more concerned than she appeared be.
                    
                    "With you in their hands, Graustark would be utterly helpless. Volga
                        could demand anything she liked, and your ministry would be forced to
                        submit."
                    "I really think it would be a capital joke on the Princess
                        Volga," mused Beverly reflectively. He did not know what she meant,
                        but regarded her soft smile as the clear title to the serenity of a
                        princess.
                    She sank back and gave herself over to the complications that were likely to
                        grow out of her involuntary deception. The one thing which worried her more
                        than all others was the fear that Yetive might not be in Edelweiss.
                        According to all reports, she had lately been in St. Petersburg and the mere
                        fact that she was supposed to be traveling by coach was sufficient proof
                        that she was not at her capital. Then there was, of course, the possibility
                        of trouble on the road with the Axphain scouts, but Beverly enjoyed the
                        optimism of youth and civilization.
                    Baldos, the goat-hunter, was dreamily thinking of the beautiful young woman
                        at his side and of the queer freak Fortune had played in bringing them
                        together. As he studied her face he could not but lament that marriage, at
                        least, established a barrier between her and the advances his bold heart
                        might otherwise be willing to risk. His black hair straggled down over his
                        forehead and his dark eyes --- the patch had been surreptitiously lifted ---
                        were unusually pensive.
                    "It is strange that you live in Graustark and have not seen its
                        princess --- before," she said, laying  groundwork for enquiry concerning the acts and whereabouts of the real
                        princess.
                    "May it please your highness, I have not lived long in Graustark.
                        Besides, it is said that half the people of Ganlook have never looked upon
                        your face."
                    "I'm not surprised at that. The proportion is much smaller
                        than I imagined. I have not visited Ganlook, strange as it may seem to
                        you."
                    "One of my company fell in with some of your guards from the Ganlook
                        garrison day before yesterday. He learned that you were to reach that city
                        within forty-eight hours. A large detachment of men has been sent to meet
                        you at Labbot."
                    "Oh, indeed," said Beverly, very much interested.
                    "They must have been misinformed as to your route --- or else your
                        Russian escort decided to take you through by the lower and more hazardous
                        way. It was our luck that you came by the wrong road. Otherwise we should
                        not have met each other --- and the lion," he said, smiling
                        reflectively.
                    "Where is Labbot?" asked she, intent upon the one subject
                        uppermost in her mind.
                    "In the mountains many leagues north of this pass. Had you taken
                        that route instead of this, you would by this time have left Labbot for the
                        town of Erros, a half-day's journey from Ganlook. Instead of
                        vagabonds, your escort would have been made up of loyal soldiers, well-fed,
                        well-clad, and well satisfied with themselves, at least."
                    "But no braver, no truer than my soldiers of fortune," she
                        said earnestly. "By the way, are you 
                        informed as to the state of affairs in Dawsbergen?"
                    "Scarcely as well as your highness must be," he
                        replied.
                    "The young prince --- what's his name?" she
                        paused, looking to him for the name.
                    "Dantan?"
                    "Yes, that's it. What has become of him? I am terribly
                        interested in him."
                    "He is a fugitive, they say."
                    "They haven't captured him, then? Good! I am so
                        glad."
                    Baldos exhibited little or no interest in the fresh topic.
                    "It is strange you should have forgotten his name," he said
                        wearily.
                    "Oh, I do so many ridiculous things!" complained Beverly,
                        remembering who she was supposed to be. "I have never seen him, you
                        know," she added.
                    "It is not strange, your highness. He was educated in England and
                        had seen but little of his own country when he was called to the throne two
                        years ago. You remember, of course, that his mother was an Englishwoman ---
                        Lady Ida Falconer."
                    "I --- I think I have heard some of his history --- a very little,
                        to be sure," she explained lamely.
                    "Prince Gabriel, his half brother, is the son of Prince Louis the
                        Third by his first wife, who was a Polish countess. After her death, when
                        Gabriel was two years old, the prince married Lady Ida. Dantan is their son.
                        He has a sister --- Candace, who is but nineteen years of age."
                    
                    "I am ashamed to confess that you know so much more about my
                        neighbors than I," she said.
                    "I lived in Dawsbergen for a little while, and was ever interested
                        in the doings of royalty. That is a poor man's privilege, you
                        know."
                    "Prince Gabriel must be a terrible man," cried Beverly, her
                        heart swelling with tender thoughts of the exiled Dantan and his little
                        sister.
                    "You have cause to know," said he shortly, and she was
                        perplexed until she recalled the stories of Gabriel's misdemeanors
                        at the court of Edelweiss.
                    "Is Prince Dantan as handsome as they say he is?" she
                        asked.
                    "It is entirely a matter of opinion," he replied.
                        "I, for one, do not consider him at all
                        prepossessing."
                    The day went on, fatiguing, distressing in its length and its happenings.
                        Progress was necessarily slow, the perils of the road increasing as the
                        little cavalcade wound deeper and deeper into the wilderness. There were
                        times when the coach fairly crawled along the edge of a precipice, a
                        proceeding so hazardous that Beverly shuddered as if in a chill. Aunt Fanny
                        slept serenely most of the time, and Baldos took to dreaming with his eyes
                        wide open. Contrary to her expectations, the Axphainians did not appear, and
                        if there were robbers in the hills they thought better than to attack the
                        valorous-looking party. It dawned upon her finally that the Axphainians were
                        guarding the upper route and not the one over which she was traveling.
                        Yetive doubtless was approaching Ganlook over the northern pass, pro-  vided the enemy had not been encountered
                        before Labbot was reached. Beverly soon found herself fearing for the safety
                        of the princess, a fear which at last became almost unendurable.
                    Near nightfall they came upon three Graustark shepherds and learned that
                        Ganlook could not be reached before the next afternoon. The tired, hungry
                        travelers spent the night in a snug little valley through which a rivulet
                        bounded onward to the river below. The supper was a scant one, the foragers
                        having poor luck in the hunt for food. Daybreak saw them on their way once
                        more. Hunger and dread had worn down Beverly's supply of good
                        spirits; she was having difficulty in keeping the haggard, distressed look
                        from her face. Her tender, hopeful eyes were not so bold or so merry as on
                        the day before; cheerfulness cost her an effort, but she managed to keep it
                        fairly alive. Her escort, wretched and half-starved, never forgot the
                        deference due to their charge, but strode steadily on with the doggedness of
                        martyrs. At times she was impelled to disclose her true identity, but
                        discretion told her that deception was her best safeguard.
                    Late in the afternoon of the second day the front axle of the coach snapped
                        in two, and a tedious delay of two hours ensued. Baldos was strangely silent
                        and subdued. It was not until the misfortune came that Beverly observed the
                        flushed condition of his face. Involuntarily and with the compassion of a
                        true woman she touched his hand and brow. They were burning-hot. The wounded
                        man was in a high fever. He laughed at her fears and scoffed at the prospect
                             of blood-poisoning and the hundred other
                        possibilities that suggested themselves to her anxious brain.
                    "We are close to Ganlook," he said, with the setting of the
                        sun. "Soon you may be relieved of your tiresome, cheerless company,
                        your highness."
                    "You are going to a physician," she said, resolutely, alive
                        and active once more, now that the worst part of the journey was coming to
                        an end. "Tell that man to drive in a gallop all the rest of the
                        way"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    THROUGH THE GANLOOK GATES
                    BY this time they were passing the queer little huts that marked the
                        outskirts of a habitable community. These were the homes of shepherds,
                        hunters and others whose vocations related especially to the mountains.
                        Farther on there were signs of farming interests; the homes became more
                        numerous and more pretentious in appearance. The rock-lined gorge broadened
                        into a fertile valley; the road was smooth and level, a condition which
                        afforded relief to the travelers. Ravone had once more dressed the wounds
                        inflicted by the lion; but he was unable to provide anything to subdue the
                        fever. Baldos was undeniably ill. Beverly, between her exclamations of joy
                        and relief at being in sight of Ganlook, was profuse in her expressions of
                        concern for the hero of the Hawk and Raven. The feverish gleam in his dark
                        eyes and the pain that marked his face touched her deeply. Suffering
                        softened his lean, sun-browned features, obliterating the mocking lines that
                        had impressed her so unfavorably at the outset. She was saying to herself
                        that he was hand-  ome after a most unusual
                        cast; it was an unforgetable face.
                    "Your highness," he said earnestly, after she had looked
                        long and anxiously at his half-closed eyes, "we are within an hour
                        of Ganlook. It will be dark before we reach the gates, I know, but you have
                        nothing to fear during the rest of the trip. Franz shall drive you to the
                        sentry post and turn over the horses to your own men. My friends and I must
                        leave you at the end of the mountain road. We are ----"
                    "Ridiculous!" she cried. "I'll not permit
                        it! You must go to a hospital."
                    "If I enter the Ganlook gates it will be the same as entering the
                        gates of death," he protested.
                    "Nonsensese! You have a fever or you wouldn't talk like
                        that. I can promise you absolute security."
                    "You do not understand, your highness."
                    "Nevertheless, you are going to a hospital," she firmly
                        said. "You would die out here in the wilds, so what are the odds
                        either way? Aunt Fanny, will you be careful?
                        Don't you know that the least movement of those bags hurts
                        him?"
                    "Please, do not mind me, your highness. I am doing very
                        well," he said, smiling.
                    The coach brought up in front of a roadside inn. While some of the men were
                        watering the horses others gathered about its open window. A conversation in
                        a tongue utterly incomprehensible to Beverly took place between Baldos and
                        his followers. The latter seemed to be disturbed about something, and there
                        was no mistaking the solicitous air with which they regarded  their leader. The pseudo-princess was patient as long
                        as possible and then broke into the discussion.
                    "What do they want?" she demanded in English.
                    "They are asking for instructions," he answered.
                    " Instruct them to do as I bid," she said. "Tell
                        them to hurry along and get you a doctor; that's all."
                    Evidently his friends were of the same opinion, for after a long harangue in
                        which he was obdurate to the last, they left the carriage and he sank back
                        with a groan of dejection.
                    "What is it?" she anxiously demanded.
                    "They also insist that I shall go to a surgeon," he said
                        hopelessly. His eyes were moist and he could not meet her gaze. She was full
                        of exultation. "They have advised me to put myself under your
                        protection, shameless as that may seem to a man. You and you alone have the
                        power to protect me if I pass beyond the walls of Ganlook."
                    "I?" she cried, all a-flutter.
                    "I could not thrust my head into the jaws of death unless the
                        princess of Graustark were there to stay their fury. Your royal hand alone
                        can turn aside the inevitable. Alas, I am helpless and know not what to
                        do."
                    Beverly Calhoun sat very straight and silent beside the misguided Baldos.
                        After all, it was not within her power to protect him. She was not the
                        princess and she had absolutely no influence in Ganlook. The authorities
                        there could not be deceived as had been these ignorant men of the hills. If
                        she led him into the city it was decidedly probable that she might be  takng him to his death. She only could
                        petition, not command. Once at Yetive's side she was confident she
                        could save the man who had done so much for her, but Ganlook was many miles
                        from Edelweiss, and there was no assurance that intervention could be
                        obtained in time. On the other hand, if he went back to the hills he was
                        likely to die of the poisonous fever. Beverly was in a most unhappy state of
                        mind. If she confessed to him that she was not the princess, he would refuse
                        to enter the gates of Ganlook, and be perfectly justified in doing so.
                    "But if I should fail?" she asked, at last, a shiver
                        rushing over her and leaving her cold with dread.
                    "You are the only hope, your highness. You had better say farewell
                        to Baldos and let him again seek the friendly valley," said he
                        wearily. "We can go no farther. The soldiers must be near, your
                        highness. It means capture if we go on. I cannot expose my friends to the
                        dangers. Let me be put down here, and do you drive on to safety. I shall
                        fare much better than you think, for I am young and strong and
                        -----"
                    "No! I'll risk it," she cried. "You must
                        go into the city. Tell them so and say that I will protect you with my own
                        life and honor."
                    Fever made him submissive; her eyes gave him confidence; her voice soothed
                        his fears, if he possessed them. Leaning from the window, he called his men
                        together. Beverly looked on in wonder as these strange men bade farewell to
                        their leader. Many of them were weeping, and most of them kissed his hand.
                             There were broken sentences, tear-choked
                        promises, anxious inquiries, and the parting was over.
                    "Where are they going?" Beverly whispered, as they moved
                        away in the dusk.
                    "Back into the mountains to starve, poor fellows. God be kind to
                        them, God be good to them," he half sobbed, his chin dropping to
                        his breast. He was trembling like a leaf.
                    "Starve?" she whispered. "Have they no
                        money?"
                    "We are penniless," came in muffled tones from the stricken
                        leader.
                    Beverly leaned from the window and called to the departing ones. Ravone and
                        one other reluctantly approached. Without a word she opened a small
                        traveling bag and drew forth a heavy purse. This she pressed into the hand
                        of the student. It was filled with Grustark gavvos, for which she had
                        exchanged American gold in Russia.
                    "God be with you," she fervently cried. He kissed her hand,
                        and the two stood aside to let the coach roll on into the dusky shadows that
                        separated them from the gates of Ganlook, old Franz still driving --- the
                        only one of the company left to serve his leader to the very end.
                    "Well, we have left them," muttered Baldos, as though to
                        himself. "I may never see them again --- never see them again. God,
                        how true they have been!"
                    "I shall send for them the moment I get to Ganlook  and I'll promise pardons for them
                        all," she cried rashly, in her compassion.
                    "No!" he exclaimed fiercely. "You are not to
                        disturb them. Better that they should starve."
                    Beverly was sufficiently subdued. As they drew nearer the city gates her
                        heart began to fail her. This man's life was in her weak, incapable
                        hands and the time was nearing when she must stand between him and
                        disaster.
                    "Where are these vaunted soldiers of yours?" he suddenly
                        asked, infinite irony in his voice.
                    "My soldiers?" she said faintly.
                    "Isn't it rather unusual that, in time of trouble and
                        uncertainty, we should be able to approach within a mile of one of your most
                        important cities without even much as seeing a soldier of
                        Graustark?"
                    She felt that he was scoffing, but it mattered little to her.
                    "It is a bit odd, isn't it?" she agreed.
                    "Worse than that, your highness."
                    "I shall speak to Dangloss about it," she said serenely,
                        and he looked up in new surprise. Truly, she was an extraordinary
                        princess.
                    Fully three-quarters of an hour passed before the coach was checked. Beverly,
                        looking from the windows, had seen the lighted windows of cottages growing
                        closer and closer together. The barking of roadside dogs was the only sound
                        that could be heard above the rattle of the wheels. It was too dark inside
                        the coach to see the face of the man beside her, but something told her that
                        he was staring intently into the  night, alert
                        and anxious. The responsibility of her position swooped down upon her like
                        an avalanche as she thought of what the next few minutes were to bring
                        forth. It was the sudden stopping of the coach and the sharp commands from
                        the outside that told her probation was at an end. She could no longer
                        speculate; it was high time to act.
                    "The outpost," came from Baldos, in strained tones.
                    "Perhaps they won't know us --- you, I mean," she
                        whispered.
                    "Baron Dangloss knows everybody," he replied bitterly.
                    "What a horrid old busy-body he -----" she started to say,
                        but thought better of it.
                    A couple of lanterns flashed at the window, almost blinding her. Aunt Fanny
                        groaned audibly, but the figure of Baldos seemed to stiffen with defiance.
                        Uniformed men peered into the interior with more rudeness and curiosity than
                        seemed respectful to a princess, to say the least. They saw a pretty,
                        pleading face, with wide gray eyes and parted lips, but they did not bow in
                        humble submission as Baldos had expected. One of the men, evidently in
                        command, addressed Beverly in rough but polite tones. It was a question that
                        he asked, she knew, but she could not answer him, for she could not
                        understand him.
                    "What do you want?" she put in English, with a creditable
                        display of dignity.
                    "He does not speak English, your highness," vol-  unteered Baldos, in a voice so well disguised that it
                        startled her. The officer was staring blankly at her.
                    "Every officer in my army should and must learn to speak
                        English," she said, at her wits' end. "I decline
                        to be questioned by the fellow. Will you talk to him my stead?"
                    "I, your highness?" he cried in dismay.
                    "Yes. Tell him who we are and ask where the hospital is,"
                        she murmured, sinking back with the air of a queen, but with the inward
                        feeling that all was lost.
                    "But I don't speak your language well," he
                        protested.
                    "You speak it beautifully," she said. Baldos leaned forward
                        painfully and spoke to the officer in Graustark tongue.
                    "Don't you know your princess?" he demanded, a
                        trifle harshly. The man's eyes flew wide open in an instant and his
                        jaw dropped.
                    "Th --- the princess?" he gasped.
                    "Don't stare like that, sir. Direct us to the main gate at
                        once, or you will have cause to regret your slowness."
                    'But the princess was --- is coming by the northern pass,"
                        mumbled the man. "The guard has gene out meet her and
                        ----" Baldos cut him off shortly with the information that the
                        princess, as he could see, had come by the lower pass and that she was eager
                        to pch a resting-place at once. The convincing tone of the speaker and the
                        regal indifference of the lady had full effect upon the officer, who had
                        never seen her highness. He fell back with a deep obeisance, and  gave a few bewildered commands to his men. The coach
                        moved off, attended by a party of foot-soldiers and Beverly breathed her
                        first sigh of relief.
                    "You did it beautifully," she whispered to Baldos, and he
                        was considerably puzzled by the ardor of her praise. "Where are we
                        going now?" she asked.
                    "Into the city, your highness," he answered. It was
                        beginning to dawn upon him that she was amazingly ignorant and
                        inconsequential for one who enjoyed the right to command these common
                        soldiers. Her old trepidation returned with this brief answer. Something
                        told her that he was beginning to mistrust her at last. After all, it meant
                        everything to him and so little to her.
                    When the coach halted before the city gates she was in a dire state of
                        unhappiness. In the darkne she could feel the reproachful eyes of old Aunt
                        Fanny searching for her abandoned conscience.
                    "Ask if Baron Dangloss is in Ganlook, and, if he is, command them to
                        take me to him immediately," she whispered to Baldos, a sudden
                        inspiration seizing her. She would lay the whole matter before the great
                        chief of police, and trust to fortune. Her hand fell impulsively upon his
                        and, to her amazement, it was as cold as ice. "What is the
                        matter?" she cried in alarm.
                    "You trusted me in the wilds, your highness," he said
                        tensely; "I am trusting you now." Before she could reply
                        the officer in charge of the Ganlook gates appeared at the coach window.
                        There were lights on all sides. Her heart sank like lead. It would be a  miracle if she passed the gates
                        unrecognized.
                    "I must see Baron Dangloss at once," she cried in English,
                        utterly disdaining her instructions to Baldos.
                    'The baron is engaged at present and can see no one,"
                        responded the good-looking young officer in broken English.
                    "Where is he?" she demanded nervously.
                    "He is at the home of Colonel Goaz, the commandant. What is your
                        business with him?"
                    "It is with him and not with you, sir," she said, imperious
                        once more. "Conduct me to him immediately."
                    "You cannot enter the gates unless you ----"
                    "Insolence!" exclaimed Baldos. "Is this the way,
                        sir,in which you address the princess? Make way for her."
                    "The princess!" gasped the officer. Then a peculiar smile
                        overspread his face. He had served three years in the Castle Guard at
                        Edelweiss! There was a long pause fraught with disaster for Beverly.
                        "Yes, perhaps it is just as well that we conduct her to Baron
                        Dangloss," he said at last. The deep meaning in his voice appealed
                        only to the unhappy girl. "There all be no further delay, your highness!" he added mockingly. A moment
                        later the gates swung open and they passed through. Beverly alone knew that
                        they were going to Baron Dangloss under he heavy guard, virtually as
                        prisoners. The man knew her to be an impostor and was doing only his
                        duty.
                    There were smiles of derision on the faces of the soldiers when Beverly swept
                        proudly between the files and up the steps
                        leading to the commandant's door but there were no audible remarks.
                        Baldos followed, walking painfully but defiantly, and Aunt Fanny came last
                        with the handbag. The guards grinned broadly as the corpulent negress
                        waddled up the steps. The young officer and two men entered the door with
                        the wayfarers, who were ordered to halt in the hallway.
                    "Will your highness come with me?" said the officer,
                        returning to the hall after a short absence. There was unmistakable derision
                        in his voice and palpable insolence in his manner. Beverly flushed angrily.
                        "Baron Dangloss is very curious to see
                        you," he added, with a smile. Nevertheless, he shrank a bit beneath
                        the cold gleam in the eyes of the impostor.
                    "You will remain here," she said, turning to Baldos and the
                        negress. "And you will have nothing whatever to say to this very
                        important young man." The "important young man"
                        actually chuckled.
                    "Follow me, your most royal highness," he said, preceding
                        her through the door that opened into the office of the commandant. Baldos
                        glared after them in angry amazement.
                    "Young man, some day and soon you will be a much
                        wiser soldier and, in the ranks," said Beverly hotly. The smile
                        instantly receded from the insolent fellow's face, for there was a
                        world of prophecy in the way she said it. Somehow, he was in a much more
                        respectful humor when he returned to the hall and stood in the presence of
                        the tall, flushed stranger with the ragged uniform.
                    
                    A short, fierce little man in the picturesque uniform of a Graustark officer
                        arose as Beverly entered the office. His short beard bristled as though it
                        were concealing a smile, but his manner was polite, even deferential. She
                        advanced fearlessly toward him, a wayward smile struggling into her
                        face.
                    "I daresay you know I am not the princess," she said
                        composedly. Every vestige of fear was gone now that she had reached the line
                        of battle. The doughty baron looked somewhat surprised at this frank way of
                        opening the interview.
                    "I am quite well aware of it," he said politely.
                    "They say you know everyone, Baron Dangloss," she boldly
                        said. "Pray, who am I?"
                    The powerful official looked at the smiling face for a moment, his bushy
                        eyebrows contracting ever so slightly. There was a shameless streak of dust
                        across her cheek, but there was also a dimple there that appealed to the
                        grim old man. His eyes twinkled as he replied, with fine obsequiousness:
                    "You are Miss Beverly Calhoun, of Washington."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX
                    THE REDOUBTABLE DANGLOSS
                    BEVERLY'S eyes showed her astonishment. Baron Dangloss courteously
                        placed a chair for her and asked he to be seated.
                    "We were expecting you, Miss Calhoun," he explained.
                        "Her royal highness left St. Petersburg but a few hours after your
                        departure, having unfortunately missed you."
                    "You don't mean to say that the princess tried to find me
                        in St. Petersburg?" cried Beverly, in wonder and delight.
                    "That was one of the purposes of her visit," said he
                        brusquely.
                    "Oh, how jolly!" cried she, her gray eyes sparkling. The
                        grim old captain was startled for the smallest fraction of a minute, but at
                        once fell to admiring the fresh, eager face of the visitor.
                    "The public at large is under the impression thd she visited the
                        Czar on matters of importance," he said, with a condescending
                        smile.
                    "And it really was of no importance at all, that's what you
                        mean?" she smiled back securely.
                    
                     "Your message informing her highness of your presence in St.
                        Petersburg had no sooner arrived than she set forth to meet you in that
                        city, much against the advice of her counsellors. I will admit that she had
                        other business there but it could have waited. You see, Miss Calhoun, it was
                        a great risk at this particular time. Misfortune means disaster now. But
                        Providence was her friend. She arrived safely in Ganlook not an hour
                        since."
                    "Really? Oh, Baron Dangloss, where is she?" excitedly cried
                        the American girl.
                    "For the night she is stopping with the Countess Rallowitz. A force
                        of men, but not those whom you met at the gates, has just been dispatched at
                        her command to search for you in the lower pass. You took the most dangerous
                        road, Miss Calhoun, and I am amazed that you came through in
                        safety."
                    "The Russians chose the lower pass, I know not why. Of course, I was
                        quite ignorant. However, we met neither brigands nor soldiers, Axphain or
                        Graustark. I encountered nothing more alarming than a mountain lion. And
                        that, Baron Dangloss, recalls me to the sense of a duty I have been
                        neglecting. A poor wanderer in the hills defended me against the beast and
                        was badly wounded. He must be taken to a hospital at once, sir, where he may
                        have the proper care."
                    Whereupon, at his request, she hurriedly related the story of that trying
                        journey through the mountains, forgetting to paint the courage of Baldos in
                        most glowing colors. The chief was deeply interested in  the story of the goat-hunter and his party. There was
                        an odd gleam of satisfaction in his eyes, but she did not observe it.
                    "You will see that he has immediate attention,
                        won't you?" she implored in the end.
                    "He shall have our deepest consideration," promised he.
                    "You know I am rather interested, because I shot him, just as if it
                        were not enough that his legs were being torn by the brute at the time. He
                        ought not to walk, Baron Dangloss. If you don't mind, I'd
                        suggest an ambulance," she hurried on glibly. He could not conceal
                        the smile that her eagerness inspired. "Really, he is in a serious
                        condition. I think! he needs some quinine and whiskey, too, and
                        -----"
                    "He shall have the best of care,"
                        interrupted the captain. "Leave him to me, Miss
                        Calhoun."
                    "Now, let me tell you something," said she, after due
                        reflection. "You must not pay any attention to what he says. He is
                        liable to be delirious and talk in a terrible sort of way. You know
                        delirious people never talk rationally." She was loyally trying to
                        protect Baldos, the hunted, against any incriminating statements he might
                        make.
                    "Quite right, Miss Calhoun," said the baron very
                        gravely.
                    "And now, I'd like to go to the princess," said
                        Beverly, absolutely sure of herself. "You know we are great
                        friends, she and I."
                    " I have sent a messenger to announce your arrival.  She will expect you." Beverly looked about
                        the room in perplexity.
                    "But there has been no messenger here," she said.
                    "He left here some minutes before you came. I knew who it was that
                        came knocking at our gates, even though she traveled as Princess Yetive of
                        Graustark."
                    "And, oh! that reminds me, Baron Dangloss, Baldos still believes me
                        to be the princess. Is it necessary to --- to tell him the truth about me?
                        Just at present, I mean? I'm sure he'll rest much easier
                        if he doesn't know differently."
                    "So far as I am concerned, Miss Calhoun, he shall always regard you
                        as a queen," said Dangloss gallantly.
                    "Thank you. It's very nice of you to -----"
                    A man in uniform entered after knocking at the door of the room. He saluted
                        his superior and uttered few words in his own language.
                    "Her royal highness is awaiting you at the home of the countess,
                        Miss Calhoun. A detail of men will escort you and your servant to her
                        place."
                    "Now, please, Baron Dangloss," pleaded Beverly at the door,
                        "be nice to him. You know it hurts him to walk. Can't you
                        have him carried in?"
                    "If he will consent," said he quietly. Beverly hurried into
                        the outer room, after giving the baron a smile he never forgot. Baldos
                        looked up eagerly, anxiously.
                    "It's all right," she said in low tones, pausing
                        for moment beside his chair. "Don't get up! Good-  bye. I'll come to see you to-morrow.
                        Don't be in the least disturbed. Baron Dangloss has his
                        instructions." Impulsively giving him her hand which he
                        respectfully raised to his lips, she followed Aunt Fanny and was gone.
                    Almost immediately Baldos was requested to present himself before Baron
                        Dangloss in the adjoining room. Refusing to be carried in, he resolutely
                        strode through the door and stood before the grim old captain of police, an
                        easy, confident smile on his face. The black patch once more covered his eye
                        with defiant assertiveness.
                    "They tell me you are Baldos, a goat-hunter," said Baron
                        Dangloss, eyeing him keenly.
                    "Yes."
                    "And you were hurt in defending one who is of much consequence in
                        Graustark. Sit down, my good fellow." Baldos' eyes gleamed
                        coldly for an instant. Then he sank into a chair. "While admitting
                        that you have done Graustark a great service, I am obliged to tell you that
                        I, at least, know you to be other than what you say. You are not a
                        goat-hunter, and Baldos is not your name. Am I not right?"
                    "You have had instructions from your sovereign, Baron Dangloss. Did
                        they include a command to cross-question me?" asked Baldos
                        haughtily. Dangloss hesitated for a full minute.
                    "They did not. I take the liberty of inquiring on my own
                        responsibility."
                    "Very well, sir. Until you have a right to ques-  tion me, I am Baldos and a goat-hunter. I think I am
                        here to receive surgical treatment."
                    "You decline to tell me anything concerning yourself?"
                    "Only that I am injured and need relief."
                    "Perhaps I know more about you than you suspect, sir."
                    "I am not in the least interested, Baron Dangloss, in what you know.
                        The princess brought me into Ganlook, and I have her promise of help and
                        protection while here. That is all I have to say, except that I have
                        implicit faith in her word."
                    Dangloss sat watching him in silence for some time. No one but himself knew
                        what was going on in that shrewd, speculative mind. At length he arose and
                        approached the proud fellow in rags.
                    "You have earned every consideration at our hands. My men will take
                        you to the hospital and you shall have the best of care. You have served our
                        princess well. To-morrow you may feel inclined to talk more freely with me,
                        for I am your friend, Baldos."
                    "I am grateful for that, Baron Dangloss," said the other
                        simply. Then he was led away and a comfortable cot in the Ganlook hospital
                        soon held his long, feverish frame, while capable hands took care of his
                        wounds. He did not know it, but two fully armed soldiers maintained a
                        careful guard outside his door under instructions from the head of the
                        police. Moreover, a picked detail of men sallied forth into the lower pass
                        in search of the goat-hunter's followers.
                    
                    In the meantime Beverly was conducted to the home of the Countess Rallowitz.
                        Her meeting with the princess was most affectionate. There were tears,
                        laughter and kisses. The whole atmosphere of the place suggested romance to
                        the eager American girl. Downstairs were the royal guards; in the halls were
                        attendants; all about were maidservants and obsequious lackeys, crowding the
                        home of the kindly countess. At last, comfortable and free from the dust of
                        travel, the two friends sat down to a dainty meal.
                    "Oh, I am so delighted," murmured Beverly for the hundredth
                        time.
                    "I'm appalled when I think of the dangers you incurred in
                        coming to me. No one but a very foolish American girl could have undertaken
                        such a trip as this. Dear me, Beverly, I should have died if anything
                        dreadful had happened to you. Why did you do it?" questioned the
                        princess. And then the laughed joyously.
                    "And you went all the way to St. Petersburg meet me, you dear, dear
                        Yetive," cried Beverly, so warmly that the attentive servant forgot
                        his mask of reverence.
                    "Wasn't it ridiculous of me? I know Gren would have
                        forbidden it if he had been in Edelweiss when I started. And, more shame to
                        me, the poor fellow is doubtless at the conference with Dawsbergen, utterly
                        ignorant of my escapade. You should have heard the ministry --- er --- ah
                        ----" and the princess paused for an English word.
                    "Kick? " Beverly supplied.
                    
                    "Yes. They objected violently. And, do you know, I was finally
                        compelled to issue a private edict to restrain them from sending an appeal
                        to Grenfall away off there on the frontier. Whether or no, my uncle insisted
                        that he should be brought home, a three-days' journey, in order
                        that he might keep me from going to St. Petersburg. Of course, they could
                        not disobey my edict, and so poor Gren is none the wiser, unless he has
                        returned from the conference. If he has, I am sure he is on the way to
                        Ganlook at this very minute."
                    "What a whimsical ruler you are," cried Beverly.
                        "Upsetting everything sensible just to rush off hundreds of miles
                        to meet me. And Axphain is trying to capture you, too! Goodness, you must
                        love me!"
                    "Oh, but I did have a trifling affair of state to
                        lay before the Czar, my dear. To-morrow we shall be safe and sound in the
                        castle and it will all be very much worth while. You see, Beverly, dear,
                        even princesses enjoy a diversion now and then. One wouldn't think
                        lything of this adventure in the United States; it is the environment that
                        makes it noticeable. Besides, tou traveled as a princess. How did you like
                        it?"
                    And then the conversation related particularly to the advantages of royalty
                        as viewed from one side and the disadvantages as regarded from another. For
                        a long time Beverly had been wondering how she should proceed in the effort
                        to secure absolute clemency for Baldos. As yet she had said nothing to
                        Yetive of her promise to him, made while she was a princess.
                    "At any rate, I'm sure the goat-hunters would not  have been so faithful and true if they had
                        not believed me to be a princess," said Beverly, paving the way.
                        "You haven't a man in your kingdom who could be more
                        chivalrous than Baldos."
                    "If he is that kind of a man, he would treat any woman as
                        gently."
                    "You should have heard him call me 'your
                        highness,'" cried Beverly. "He will loathe me if
                        he ever learns that I deceived him."
                    "Oh, I think he deceived himself," spoke Yetive easily.
                        "Besides, you look as much like a princess as I."
                    "There is something I want to speak very seriously about to you,
                        Yetive," said Beverly, making ready for the cast. "You
                        see, he did not want to enter Ganlook with me, but I insisted. He had been
                        so brave and gallant, and he was suffering so intensely. It would have been
                        criminal in me to leave him out there in the wilderness, wouldn't
                        it?"
                    "It would have been heartless."
                    "So I just made him come along. That was right, wasn't it?
                        That's what you would have done, no matter who he was or what his
                        objections might have been. Well, you see, it's this way, Yetive:
                        he is some sort of a fugitive --- not a criminal, you know --- but just some
                        one they are hunting for, I don't know why. He wouldn't
                        tell me. That was perfectly right, if he felt that way, wasn't
                        it?"
                    "And he had fought a lion in your defense," supplemented
                        Yetive, with a schoolgirl's ardor.
                    "And I had shot him in the arm, too," added Bev-  erly. "So of course, I just had to
                        be reasonable. In order to induce him to come with me to a hospital, I was
                        obliged to guarantee perfect safety to him. His men went back to the hills,
                        all except old Franz, the driver. Now, the trouble is this, Yetive: I am not the princess and I cannot redeem a single promise I
                        made him. He is helpless, and if anything goes wrong with him he will hate
                        me forever."
                    "No; he will hate me, for I am the princess and he
                        none the wiser."
                    "But he will be told that his princess was Beverly Calhoun, a
                        supposedly nice American girl. Don't you see how awkward it will be
                        for me? Now, Yetive, darling, what I wish you to do is to write a note,
                        order or edict or whatever it is to Baron Dangloss, commanding him to treat
                        Baldos as a patient and not a prisoner; and that when he is fully recovered
                        he to have the privilege of leaving Ganlook without
                        reservation."
                    "But he may be a desperate offender against the state,
                        Beverly," plaintively protested Yetive. "If we only knew
                        what he is charged with!"
                    "I'm afraid it's something dreadfully
                        serious," admitted Beverly gloomily. "He doesn't
                        look like the sort of man who would engage in a petty undertaking. I'll tell
                        you his story, just as he told it to me," and she repeated the
                        meagre confessions of Baldos.
                    "I see no reason why we should hesitate," said the
                        princess. "By his own statement, he is not a desperate criminal.
                        You did quite right in promising him 
                        protection, dear, and I shall sustain you. Do you want to play the princess
                        to Baldos a little longer?"
                    "I should love it," cried Beverly, her eyes sparkling.
                    "Then I shall write the order to Dangloss at once. Oh, dear, I have
                        forgotten, I have no official seal here."
                    "Couldn't you seal it with your ring?" suggested
                        Beverly. "Oh, I have it! Send for Baron Dangloss and have him
                        witness your signature. Ha can't get away from that, you see, and
                        after we reach Edelweiss, you can fix up a regular edict, seal and
                        all," cried the resourceful American girl.
                    Ink and paper were sent for and the two conspirators lent their wisdom to the
                        task of preparing an order for the salvation of Baldos, the fugitive. The
                        order read: 
                            
                                
                                    TO BARON JASTO DANGLOSS, COMMANDING THE CIVIC
                                            AND MILITARY POLICE OF GRAUSTARK:
                                    "You are hereby informed that Baldos, the man who
                                        entered the city with Miss Calhoun, is not to be regarded as
                                        a prisoner now or hereafter. He is to be given capable
                                        medical and surgical attention until fully recovered, when
                                        he is to be allowed to go his way in peace unquestioned.
                                    "Also, he is to be provided with suitable wearing
                                        apparel and made comfortable in every way.
                                    "Also, the members of his party, now in the hills
                                        (whose names are unknown to me), are to be accorded every
                                        protection. Franz, the driver, is to have his freedom if he
                                        desires it.
                                    "And from this edict there is no recourse until its
                                        abatement by royal decree.
                                    "YETIVE."
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    "There, said the princess, affixing her signture.  "I think that will be sufficient."
                        Then she rang for a servant. "Send to Baron Dangloss and ask him to
                        come here at once."
                    Fifteen minutes later the chief of police stood in the presence of the eager
                        young interpreters of justice.
                    "I want you to witness my signature, Baron Dangloss," said
                        the princess after the greetings.
                    "Gladly," said the officer.
                    "Well, here is where I signed," said Yetive, handing him
                        the paper. "I don't have to write my name iver again, do
                        I?"
                    "Not at all," said the baron gallantly. And he boldly
                        signed his name as a witness.
                    "They wouldn't do that in the United States,"
                        murmured Beverly, who knew something about red tape at Washington.
                    "It is a command to you, baron," said Yetive, handing him
                        the document with a rare smile. He read it through slowly. Then he bit his
                        lip and coughed. "What is the matter, baron?" asked
                        Yetive, still smiling.
                    "A transitory emotion, your highness, that is all," said
                        he; but his hand trembled as he folded the paper.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    INSIDE THE CASTLE WALLS
                    RIGHT and early the next morning, the party was ready for the last of the
                        journey to Edelweiss. Less than twenty miles separated Ganlook from the
                        capital, and the road was in excellent condition. Beverly Calhoun, tired and
                        contented, had slept soundly until aroused by the princess herself. Their
                        rooms adjoined each other, and when Yetive, shortly after daybreak, stole
                        into the American girl's chamber, Beverly was sleeping so sweetly
                        that the intruder would have retreated had it not been for the boisterous
                        shouts of stable-boys in the courtyard below the windows. She hurried to a
                        window and looked out upon the gray-cloaked morning. Postillions and
                        stable-boys were congregated near the gates, tormenting a ragged old man who
                        stood with his back against one of the huge posts. In some curiosity, she
                        called Beverly from her slumbers, urging the sleepy one to hasten to the
                        window.
                    "Is this one of your friends from the wilderness?" she
                        asked.
                    
                    "It's Franz!" cried Beverly, rubbing her pretty
                        eyes. Then she became thoroughly awake. "What are they doing to
                        him? Who are those ruffians?" she demanded indignantly.
                    "They are my servants, and ----"
                    "Shame on them! The wretches! What has old Franz done that they
                        should --- Call to them! Tell 'em you'll cut their heads
                        off if they don't stop. He's a dear old fellow in spite of
                        his rags, and he ----"
                    The window-sash flew open and the tormentors in be court below were
                        astonished by the sound of a woman's voice, coming, as it were,
                        from the clouds. A dozen pairs of eyes were turned upward; the commotion
                        ended suddenly. In the window above stood two graceful, white-robed figures.
                        The sun, still far below the ridge of mountains, had not yet robbed the
                        morning of the gray, dewy shadows that belong to five o'clock.
                    "What are you doing to that poor old man?" cried Yetive,
                        and it was the first time any of them had seen anger in the
                        princess's face. They slunk back in dismay. "Let him
                        alone! You, Gartz, see that he has food and drink, and without delay. Report
                        to me later on, sir, and explain, if you can, why you have conducted
                        yourselves in so unbecoming a manner." Then the window was closed
                        and the princess found herself in the warm arms of her friend.
                    "I couldn't understand a word you said, Yetive, but I knew
                        you were giving it to them hot and heavy. Did you see how nicely old Franz
                        bowed to you? Goodness, his head almost touched the ground."
                    
                    "He was bowing to you, Beverly. You forgot that you are the princess
                        to him."
                    "Isn't that funny? I had quite forgotten it --- the poor
                        old goose."
                    Later, when the coaches and escort were drawn up in front of the Rallowitz
                        palace ready for the start, the princess called the chief postillion, Gartz,
                        to the step of her coach.
                    "What was the meaning of the disturbance I witnessed this
                        morning?" she demanded.
                    Gartz hung his head. "We thought the man was crazy, your highness.
                        He had been telling us such monstrous lies," he mumbled.
                    "Are you sure they were lies?"
                    "Oh, quite sure, your highness. They were laughable. He said, for
                        one thing, that it was he who drove your highness's coach into
                        Ganlook last evening, when everybody knows that I had full charge of the
                        coach and horses."
                    "You are very much mistaken, Gartz," she said, distinctly.
                        He blinked his eyes.
                    "Your highness," he gasped, "you surely remember
                        ----"
                    "Enough, sir. Franz drove the princess into Ganlook last night. He
                        says so himself, does he not?"
                    "Yes, your highness," murmured poor Gartz.
                    "What more did he say to you?"
                    "He said he had come from his master, who is in the hospital, to
                        inquire after your health and to bear his thanks for the kindnesses you have
                        secured for him. He says his master is faring well and is  satisfied to remain where he is. Also, he said that
                        his master was sending him back into the mountains to assure his friends
                        that he is safe and to bear a certain message of cheer to them, sent forth
                        by the princess. It was all so foolish and crazy, your highness, that we
                        could but jibe and laugh at the poor creature."
                    "It is you who have been foolish, sir. Send the old man to
                        me."
                    "He has gone, your highness," in frightened tones.
                    "So much the better," said the princess, dismissing him
                        with a wave of the hand. Gartz went away in a daze, and for days he took
                        every opportunity to look for other signs of mental disorder in the conduct
                        of his mistress, at the same time indulging in speculation as to his own
                        soundness of mind.
                    Ganlook's population lined the chief thoroughfare, citing the
                        departure of the princess, although the hour was early. Beverly peered forth
                        curiously as coach moved off. The quaint, half-oriental costumes of the
                        townspeople, the odd little children, the bright colors, the perfect love
                        and reverence that shone in the faces of the multitude impressed her deeply.
                        She was never to forget that picturesque morning. Baron Dangloss rode beside
                        the coach until it passed through the southern gates and into the
                        countryside. A company of cavalrymen acted as escort. The bright red
                        trousers and top-boots, with deep-blue jackets, reminded Beverly more than
                        ever of the operatic figures she had seen so often at home. There was a
                        fierce, dark cast to the faces of  these
                        soldiers, however, that removed any suggestion of play. The girl was in
                        ecstasies. Everything about her appealed to the romantic side of her nature;
                        everything seemed so unreal and so like the story-book. The princess smiled
                        lovingly upon the throngs that lined the street; there was no man among them
                        who would not have laid down his life for the gracious ruler.
                    "Oh, I love your soldiers," cried Beverly warmly.
                    "Poor fellows, who knows how soon they may be called upon to face
                        death in the Dawsbergen hills?" said Yetive, a shadow crossing her
                        face.
                    Dangloss was to remain in Ganlook for several days, on guard against
                        manifestations by the Axphainians. A corps of spies and scouts was working
                        with him, and couriers were ready to ride at a moment's notice to
                        the castle in Edelweiss. Before they parted, Beverly extracted a renewal of
                        his promise to take good care of Baldos. She sent a message to the injured
                        man, deploring the fact that she wa compelled to leave Ganlook without
                        seeing him as she had promised. It was her intention to have him come to
                        Edelweiss as soon as he was in a condition to removed. Captain Dangloss
                        smiled mysteriously, but he had no comment to make. He had received orders
                        and was obeying them to the letter.
                    "I wonder if Grenfall has heard of my harum-scarum trip to St.
                        Petersburg," reflected Yetive, making herself comfortable in the
                        coach after the gates and the multitudes were far behind.
                    "I'll go you a box of chocolate creams that we  meet him before we get to Edelweiss,"
                        ventured Beverly.
                    "Agreed," said the princess.
                    "Don't say 'agreed,' dear.
                        'Done' is the word," corrected the American girl
                        airily.
                    Beverly won. Grenfall Lorry and a small company of horsemen rode up in
                        furious haste long before the sun was in mid-sky. An attempt to depict the
                        scene between him and his venturesome wife would be a hopeless task. The way
                        in which his face cleared itself of distress and worry was a joy in itself.
                        To use his own words, he breathed freely for the first time in hours.
                        "The American" took the place of the officer who rode
                        beside the coach, and the trio kept up an eager, interesting conversation
                        during the next two hours.
                    It was a warm, sleepy day, but all signs of drowsiness disappeared with the
                        advent of Lorry. He had reached Edelweiss late the night before, after a
                        three days' ride from the conference with Dawsbergen. At first he
                        encountered trouble in trying to discover what had become of the princess.
                        Those at the castle were aware of the fact that she had reached Ganlook
                        safely and sought to put him off with subterfuges. He stormed to such a
                        degree, however, that their object failed. The result was that he was off
                        for Ganlook with the earliest light of day.
                    Regarding the conference with Prince Gabriel's representatives, he
                        had but little to say. The escaped murderer naturally refused to surrender
                        and was to appearances quite firmly established in power once  more. Lorry's only hope was that the
                        reversal of feeling in Dawsbergen might work ruin for the prince. He was
                        carrying affairs with a high hand, dealing vengeful blows to the friends of
                        his half-brother and encouraging a lawlessness that sooner or later must
                        prove his undoing. His representatives at the conference were an arrogant,
                        law-defying set of men who laughed scornfully at every proposal made by the
                        Graustarkians.
                    "We told them that if he were not surrendered to our authorities
                        inside of sixty days we would declare war and go down and take
                        him," concluded "The American."
                    "Two months," cried Yetive. "I don't
                        understand."
                    "There was method in that ultimatum. Axphain, of course, will set up
                        a howl, but we can forestall any action the Princess Volga may undertake.
                        Naturally, one might suspect that we should declare war at once, inasmuch as
                        he must be taken sooner or later. But here is the point: before two months
                        have elapsed the better element of Dawsbergen will be so disgusted with the
                        new dose of Gabriel that it will do anything to avert a war on his account.
                        We have led them to believe that Axphain will lend moral, if not physical,
                        support to our cause. Give them two months it which to get over this
                        tremendous hysteria, and they'll find their senses. Gabriel
                        isn't worth it, you see, and down in their hearts they know it.
                        They really loved young Dantan, who seems to be a devil of a good fellow.
                        I'll wager my head that in six weeks they'll  be wishing he were back on the throne again. And Just
                        to think of it, Yetive, dear, you were off there in the very heart of
                        Axphain, risking everything," he cried, wiping the moisture from
                        his brow.
                    "It is just eleven days since I left Edelweiss, and I have had a
                        lovely journey," she said, with one of her rare smiles. He shook
                        his head gravely, and she resolved in her heart never to give him another
                        such cause for alarm.
                    "And in the meantime, Mr. Grenfall Lorry, you are blaming me and
                        hating me and all that for being the real cause of your wife's
                        escapade," said Beverly Calhoun plaintively. "I'm
                        awfully sorry. But, you must remember one thing, sir; I did not put her up
                        to this ridiculous trip. She did it of her own free will and accord.
                        Besides, I am the one who met the lion and almost got devoured, not Yetive,
                        if you please."
                    "I'll punish you by turning you over to old Count Marlanx,
                        the commander of the army in Graustark," said Lorry, laughingly.
                        "He's a terrible ogre, worse than any lion."
                    "Heaven pity you, Beverly, if you fall into his clutches,"
                        cried Yetive. "He has had five wives and survives to look for a
                        sixth. You see how terrible it would be."
                    "I'm not afraid of him," boasted Beverly, but
                        there came a time when she thought of those words with a shudder.
                    "By the way, Yetive, I have had word from Harry Anguish. He and the
                        countess will leave Paris this  week, if the
                        baby's willing, and will be in Edelweiss soon. You don't
                        know how it relieves me to know that Harry will be with us at this
                        time."
                    Yetive's eyes answered his enthusiasm. Both had a warm and grateful
                        memory of the loyal service which the young American had rendered his friend
                        when they had first come to Graustark in quest of the princess; and both had
                        a great regard for his wife, the Countess Dagmar, who, as Yetive's
                        lady in waiting, had been through all the perils of those exciting days with
                        them.
                    As they drew near the gates of Edelweiss, a large body of horsemen rode forth
                        to meet them. The afternoon was well on the way to night, and the air of the
                        valley was cool and refreshing, despite the rays of the June sun.
                    "Edelweiss at last," murmured Beverly, her face aglow.
                        "The heart of Graustark. Do you know that I have been brushing up
                        on my grammar? I have learned the meaning of the word
                        'Graustark,' and it seems so appropriate. Grau is gray, hoary, old; stark is strong. Old
                        and strong --- isn't it, dear?"
                    "And here rides the oldest and strongest man in all Graustark ---
                        the Iron Count of Marlanx," said Yetive, looking down the road.
                        "See --- the strange gray man in front there is our greatest
                        general, our craftiest fighter, our most heartless warrior. Does he not look
                        like the eagle or the hawk?"
                    A moment later the parties met, and the newcomers swung into line with the
                        escort. Two men rode up  to the carriage and
                        saluted. One was Count Marlanx, the other Colonel Quinnox, of the Royal
                        Guard. The count, lean and gray as a wolf, revealed rows of huge white teeth
                        in his perfunctory smile of welcome, while young Quinnox's face
                        fairly beamed with honest joy. In the post that he held, he was but
                        following in the footsteps of his forefathers. Since history began in
                        Graustark, a Quinnox had been in charge of the castle guard.
                    The "Iron Count," as he sometimes was called, was past his
                        sixtieth year. For twenty years he had been in command of the army. One had
                        but to look at his strong, sardonic face to know that he was a fearless
                        leader, a savage fighter. His eyes were black, piercing and never quiet; his
                        hair and close-cropped beard were almost snow-white; his voice was heavy and
                        without a vestige of warmth. Since her babyhood Yetive had stood in awe of
                        this grim old warrior. It was no uncommon thing for mothers to subdue
                        disobedient children with the threat to give them over to the "Iron
                        Count." "Old Marlanx will get you if you're not
                        good," was a household phrase in Edelweiss. He had been married
                        five times and as many times had he been left a widower. If he were
                        disconsolate in any instance, no one had been able to discover the fact.
                        Enormously rich, as riches go in Graustark, he had found young women for his
                        wives who thought only of his gold and his lands in the trade they made with
                        Cupid. It was said that without exception they died happy. Death was a joy.
                        The fortress overlooking the valley to the south was no  more rugged and unyielding than the man who made his
                        home within its walls. He lived there from choice and it was with his own
                        money that he fitted up the commandant's quarters in truly regal
                        style. Power was more to him than wealth, though he enjoyed both.
                    Colonel Quinnox brought news from the castle. Yetive's uncle and
                        aunt, the Count and Countess Halfont, were eagerly expecting her return, and
                        the city was preparing to manifest its joy in the most exuberant fashion. As
                        they drew up to the gates the shouts of the people came to the ears of the
                        travelers. Then the boom of cannon and the blare of bands broke upon the
                        air, thrilling Beverly to the heart. She wondered how Yetive could be so
                        calm and unmoved in the face of all this homage.
                    Past the great Hotel Regengetz and the Tower moved the gay procession, into
                        the broad stretch of boulevard that led to the gates of the palace grounds.
                        The gates stood wide open and inviting. Inside was Jacob Fraasch, the chief
                        steward of the grounds, with his men drawn up in line; upon the walls the
                        sentries came to parade rest; on the plaza the Royal band was playing as
                        though by inspiration. Then the gates closed behind the coach and escort,
                        and Beverly Calhoun was safe inside the castle walls. The "Iron
                        Count" handed her from the carriage at the portals of the palace,
                        and she stood as one in a dream.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI
                    THE ROYAL COACH OF GRAUSTARK
                    THE two weeks following Beverly Calhoun's advent into the royal
                        household were filled with joy and wonder for her. Daily she sent glowing
                        letters to her father, mother and brothers in Washington, elaborating vastly
                        upon the paradise into which she had fallen. To her highly emotional mind,
                        the praises of Graustark had been but poorly sung. The huge old castle,
                        relic of the feudal days, with its turrets and bastions and portcullises,
                        impressed her with a never-ending sense of wonder. Its great halls and
                        stairways, its chapel, the throne-room, and the armor-closet; its
                        underground passages and dungeons all united to fill her imaginative soul
                        with the richest, rarest joys of romance. Simple American girl that she was,
                        unused to the rigorous etiquette of royalty, she found embarrassment in the
                        first confusion of events, but she was not long in recovering her poise.
                    Her apartments were near those of the Princess Yetive. In the private
                        intercourse enjoyed by these young women, all manner of restraint was
                        abandoned  by the visitor and every vestige of
                        royalty slipped from the princess. Count Halfont and his adorable wife, the
                        Countess Yvonne, both of whom had grown old in the court, found the girl and
                        her strange servant a source of wonder and delight.
                    Some days after Beverly's arrival there came to the castle Harry
                        Anguish and his wife, the vivacious Dagmar. With them came the year-old
                        cooing babe who was to overthrow the heart and head of every being in the
                        household, from princess down. The tiny Dagmar became queen at once, and no
                        one disputed her rule.
                    Anguish, the painter, became Anguish, the strategist and soldier. He planned
                        with Lorry and the ministry, advancing some of the most hair-brained
                        projects that ever encouraged discussion in a solemn conclave. The staid,
                        cautious ministers looked upon him with wonder, but so plausible did he made
                        his proposals appear that they were forced to consider them seriously. The
                        old Count of Marlanx held him in great disdain, and did not hesitate to
                        expose his contempt. This did not disturb Anguish in the least, for he was
                        as optimistic as the sunshine. His plan for the recapture of Gabriel was
                        ridiculously improbable, but it was afterwards seen that had it been
                        attempted much distress and delay might actually have been avoided.
                    Yetive and Beverly, with Dagmar and the baby, made merry while the men were
                        in council. Their mornings were spent in the shady park surrounding the
                        castle, their afternoons in driving, riding and  walking. Oftentimes the princess was barred from these simple pleasures
                        by the exigencies of her position. She was obliged to grant audiences,
                        observe certain customs of state, attend to the charities that came directly
                        under her supervision, and confer with be nobles on affairs of weight and
                        importance. Beverely delighted in the throne-room and the underground
                        passages; they signified more to her than all the rest. She was shown the
                        room in which Lorry had foiled the Viennese who once tried to abduct Yetive.
                        The dungeon where Gabriel spent his first days of confinement, the Tower in
                        which Lorry had been held a prisoner, and the monastery in the clouds were
                        all places of unusual interest to her.
                    Soon the people of the city began to recognize the fair American girl who was
                        a guest in the castle, and a certain amount of homage was paid to her. When
                        she rode or drove in the streets, with her attendant soldiers, the people
                        bowed as deeply and as respectfully as they did to the princess herself, and
                        Beverly was just as grand and gracious as if she had been born with a
                        sceptre in her hand.
                    The soft moonlight nights charmed her with a sense of rapture never known
                        before. With the castle brilliantly illuminated, the halls and drawing-rooms
                        filled with gay courtiers, the harpists at their posts, he military band
                        playing in the parade ground, the balconies and porches offering their most
                        inviting allurements, it is no wonder that Beverly was entranced. War had no
                        terrors for her. If she thought of it at all, it was with the fear that it
                        might dis-  turb the dream into which she had
                        fallen. True, there was little or nothing to distress the most timid in
                        these first days. The controversy between the principalities was at a
                        standstill, although there was not an hour in which preparations for the
                        worst were neglected. To Beverly Calhoun, it meant little when sentiment was
                        laid aside; to Yetive and her people this probable war with Dawsbergen meant
                        everything.
                    Dangloss, going back and forth between Edelweiss and the frontier north of
                        Ganlook, where the best of the police and secret service watched with the
                        sleepless eyes of the lynx, brought unsettling news to the ministry. Axphain
                        troops were engaged in the annual maneuvers just across the border in their
                        own territory. Usually these were held in the plains near the capital, and
                        there was a sinister significance in the fact that this year they were being
                        carried on in the rough southern extremity of the principality, within a
                        day's march of the Graustark line, fully two months earlier than
                        usual. The doughty baron reported that foot, horse and artillery were
                        engaged in the drills, and that fully 8,000 men were massed in the south of
                        Axphain. The fortifications of Ganlook, Labbot and other towns in northern
                        Graustark were strengthened with almost the same care as those in the south,
                        where conflict with Dawsbergen might first be expected. General Marlanx and
                        his staff rested neither day nor night. The army of Graustark was ready.
                        Underneath the castle's gay exterior there smouldered the fire of
                        battle, the tremor of defiance.
                    Late one afternoon Beverly Calhoun and Mrs. 
                        Anguish drove up in state to the Tower, wherein sat Dangloss and his
                        watchdogs. The scowl left his face as far as nature would permit and he
                        welcomed the ladies warmly.
                    "I came to ask about my friend, the goat-hunter," said
                        Beverly, her cheeks a trifle rosier than usual.
                    "He is far from an amiable person, your highness," said the
                        officer. When discussing Baldos he never failed to address Beverly as
                        "your highness." "The fever is gone and he is
                        able to walk without much pain, but he is as restless as a witch. Following
                        instructions, I have not questioned him concerning his plans, but I fancy he
                        is eager to return to the hills."
                    "What did he say when you gave him my message?" asked
                        Beverly.
                    "Which one, your highness?" asked he, with tantalizing
                        density.
                    "Why, the suggestion that he should come to Edelweiss for better
                        treatment," retorted Beverly severely.
                    "He said he was extremely grateful for your kind offices, but he did
                        not deem it advisable to come to this city. He requested me to thank you in
                        his behalf and to tell you that he will never forget what you have done for
                        him."
                    "And he refuses to come to Edelweiss?" irritably demanded
                        Beverly.
                    "Yes, your highness. You see, he still regards himself with
                        disfavor, being a fugitive. It is hardly fair to blame him for respecting
                        the security of the hills."
                    "I hoped that I might induce him to give up his  old life and engage in something perfectly honest,
                        although, mind you, Baron Dangloss, I do not question his integrity in the
                        least. He should have a chance to prove himself worthy, that's all.
                        This morning I petitioned Count Marlanx to give him a place in the Castle
                        Guard."
                    "My dear Miss Calhoun, the princess has ----" began the
                        captain.
                    "Her highness has sanctioned the request," interrupted
                        she.
                    "And the count has promised to discover a vacancy," said
                        Dagmar, with a smile that the baron understood perfectly well.
                    "This is the first time on record that old Marlanx has ever done
                        anything to oblige a soul save himself. It is wonderful, Miss Calhoun. What
                        spell do you Americans cast over rock and metal that they become as sand in
                        your fingers?" said the baron, admiration and wonder in his
                        eyes.
                    "You dear old flatterer," cried Beverly, so warmly that he
                        caught his breath.
                    "I believe that you can conquer even that stubborn fellow in
                        Ganlook," he said, fumbling with his glasses. "He is the
                        most obstinate being I know, and yet in ten minutes you could bring him to
                        terms, I am sure. He could not resist you."
                    "He still thinks I am the princess?"
                    "He does, and swears by you."
                    "Then, my mind is made up. I'll go to Ganlook and bring him
                        back with me, willy-nilly. He is too good a man to be lost in the hills.
                        Good-bye, Baron  Dangloss. Thank you ever and
                        ever so much. Oh, yes; will you write an order delivering him over to he?
                        The hospital people may be --- er --- disobliging, you know."
                    "It shall be in your higlhess's hands this
                        evening."
                    The next morning, with Colonel Quinnox and a small escort, Beverly Calhoun
                        set off in one of the royal coaches for Ganlook, accompanied by faithful
                        Aunt Fanny. She carried the order from Baron Dangloss and a letter from
                        Yetive to the Countess Rallowitz, insuring hospitality over night in the
                        northern town. Lorry and the royal household entered merrily into her
                        project, and she went away with the godspeeds of all. The Iron Count himself
                        rode beside her coach to the city gates, an unheard-of condescension.
                    "Now, you'll be sure to find a nice place for him in the
                        castle guard, won't you, Count Marlanx?" she laid at the
                        parting, her hopes as fresh as the daisy in the dew, her confidence supreme.
                        The count promised faithfully, even eagerly. Colonel Quinnox, trained as he
                        was in the diplomacy of silence, could scarcely conceal his astonishment at
                        the conquest of the hard old warrior.
                    Although the afternoon was well spent before Beverly reached Ganlook, she was
                        resolved to visit the obdurate patient at once, relying upon her
                        resourcefulness to secure his promise to start with her for Edelweiss on the
                        following morning. The coach delivered her at the hospital door in grand
                        style. When the visitor was ushered into the snug little ante-  room of the governor's office, her heart was
                        throbbing and her composure was undergoing a most unusual strain. It annoyed
                        her to discover that the approaching contact with an humble goat-hunter was
                        giving her such unmistakable symptoms of perturbation.
                    From an upstairs window in the hospital the convalescent but unhappy patient
                        witnessed her approach and arrival. His sore, lonely heart gave a bound of
                        joy, for the days had seemed long since her departure.
                    He had had time to think during these days, too. Turning over in his mind all
                        of the details in connection with their meeting and their subsequent
                        intercourse, it began to dawn upon him that she might not be what she
                        assumed to be. Doubts assailed him, suspicions grew into amazing forms of
                        certainty. There were times when he laughed sardonically at himself for
                        being taken in by this strange but charming young woman, but through it all
                        his heart and mind were being drawn more and more fervently toward her. More
                        than once he called himself a fool and more than once he dreamed foolish
                        dreams of her --- princess or not. Of one thing he was sure: he had come to
                        love the adventure for the sake of what it promised and there was no
                        bitterness beneath his suspicions.
                    Arrayed in clean linen and presentable clothes, pale from indoor confinement
                        and fever, but once more the straight and strong cavalier of the hills, he
                        hastened into her presence when the summons came for him to descend. He
                        dropped to his knee and kissed her hand, determined to play the game,
                        notwithstanding his doubts. As he arose she glanced for a flitting  second into his dark eyes, and her own long
                        lashes drooped.
                    "Your highness!" he said gratefully.
                    "How well and strong you look," she said hurriedly.
                        "Some of the tan is gone, but you look as though you had never been
                        ill. Are you quite recovered?"
                    "They say I am as good as new," he smilingly answered.
                        "A trifle weak and uncertain in my lower extremities, but a few
                        days of exercise in the mountains will overcome all that. Is all well with
                        you and Graustark? They will give me no news here, by whose order I do not
                        know."
                    "Turn about is fair play, sir. It is a well-established fact that
                        you will give them no news. Yes, all is well with me and
                        mine. Were you beginning to think that I had deserted you? It has been two
                        weeks, hasn't it?"
                    "Ah, your highness, I realize that you have had much more important
                        things to do than to think of poor Baldos. I am exceedingly grateful for
                        this sign of interest in my welfare. Your visit is the brightest experience
                        of my life."
                    "Be seated!" she cried suddenly. "You are too ill
                        to stand."
                    "Were I dying I should refuse to be seated while your highness
                        stands," said he simply. His shoulders seemed to square themselves
                        involuntarily and his left hand twitched as though accustomed to the habit
                        of touching a sword-hilt. Beverly sat down instantly;  with his usual easy grace, he took a chair near by.
                        They were alone in the ante-chamber.
                    "Even though you were on your last legs?" she murmured, and
                        then wondered how she could have uttered anything so inane. Somehow, she was
                        beginning to fear that he was not the ordinary person she had judged him to
                        be. "You are to be discharged from the hospital
                        to-morrow," she added hastily.
                    "To-morrow?" he cried, his eyes lighting with joy.
                        "I may go then?"
                    "I have decided to take you to Edelweiss with me," she
                        said, very much as if that were all there was to it. He stared at her for a
                        full minute as though doubting his ears.
                    "No!" he said, at last, his jaws settling, his eyes
                        glistening. It was a terrible setback for Beverly's confidence.
                        "Your highness forgets that I have your promise of absolute
                        freedom."
                    "But you are to be free," she protested. "You have
                        nothing to fear. It is not compulsory, you know. You don't have to
                        go unless you really want to. But my heart is set on having you in --- in
                        the castle guard." His bitter, mocking laugh surprised and wounded
                        her, which he was quick to see, for his contrition was immediate.
                    "Pardon, your highness. I am a rude, ungrateful wretch, and I
                        deserve punishment instead of reward. The proposal was so astounding that I
                        forgot myself completely," he said.
                    Whereupon, catching him in this contrite mood, she began a determined assault
                        against his resolution.  For an hour she
                        devoted her whole heart and soul to the task of overcoming his prejudices,
                        fears and ejections, meeting his protestations firmly and logically,
                        unconscious of the fact that her very enthusiasm was betraying her to him.
                        The first signs of weakening inspired her afresh and at last she was riding
                        over him rough-shod, a happy victor. She made promises that Yetive herself
                        could not have made; she offered inducements that never could be carried
                        out, though in her zeal she did not know it to be so; she painted such
                        pictures of ease, comfort and pleasure that he wondered why royalty did not
                        exchange places with its servants. In the end, overcome by the spirit of
                        adventure and a desire to be near her, he agreed to enter the service for
                        six months, at the expiration of which time he was to be released from all
                        obligations if he so desired.
                    "But my friends in the pass, your highness," he said in
                        surrendering, "what is to become of them? They are waiting for me
                        out there in the wilderness. I am not base enough to desert
                        them."
                    "Can't you get word to them?" she asked eagerly.
                        "Let them come into the city, too. We will provide for the poor
                        fellows, believe me."
                    "That, at least, is impossible, your highness," he said,
                        shaking his head sadly. "You will have to slay them before you can
                        bring them within the city gates. My only hope is that Franz may be here
                        tonight. He has permission to enter, and I am expecting him to-day or
                        to-morrow."
                    "You can send word to them that you are sound  and safe and you can tell them that Graustark
                        soldiers shall be instructed to pay no attention to them whatever. They
                        shall not be disturbed." He laughed outright at her enthusiasm.
                        Many times during her eager conversation with Baldos she had almost betrayed
                        the fact that she was not the princess. Some of her expressions were
                        distinctly unregal and some of her slips were hopeless, as she viewed them
                        in retrospect.
                    "What am I? Only the humble goat-hunter, hunted to death and eager
                        for a short respite. Do with me as you like, your highness. You shall be my
                        princess and sovereign for six months, at least," he said, sighing.
                        "Perhaps it is for the best."
                    "You are the strangest man I've ever seen," she
                        remarked, puzzled beyond expression. That night Franz appeared at the
                        hospital and was left alone with Baldos for an hour or more. What passed
                        between them, no outsider knew, though there were tears in the eyes of both
                        at the parting. But Franz did not start for the pass that night, as they had
                        expected. Strange news had come to the ears of the faithful old follower and
                        he hung about Ganlook until morning came, eager to catch the ear of his
                        leader before it was too late.
                    The coach was drawn up in front of the hospital at eight o'clock,
                        Beverly triumphant in command. Baldos came down the steps slowly, carefully,
                        favoring the newly healed ligaments in his legs. She smiled cheerily at him
                        and he swung his rakish hat low. There was no sign of the black patch. Sud-
                             denly he started and peered intently into
                        the little knot of people near the coach. A look of anxiety crossed his
                        face. From the crowd advanced a grizzled old beggar who boldly extended his
                        hand. Baldos grasped the proffered hand and then stepped into the coach. No
                        one saw the bit of white paper that passed from Franz's palm into
                        the possession of Baldos. Then the coach was off for Edelweiss, the people
                        of Ganlook enjoying the unusual spectacle of a mysterious and apparently
                        undistinguished stranger sitting in luxurious ease beside a fair lady in the
                        royal coach of Graustark.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII
                    IN SERVICE
                    IT was a drowsy day, and, besides, Baldos was not in a communicative frame of
                        mind. Beverly put forth her best efforts during the forenoon, but after the
                        basket luncheon had been disposed of in the shade at the roadside, she was
                        content to give up the struggle and surrender to the soothing importunities
                        of the coach as it bowled along. She dozed peacefully, conscious to the last
                        that he was a most ungracious creature and more worthy of resentment than of
                        benefaction. Baldos was not intentionally disagreeable; he was morose and
                        unhappy because he could not help it. Was he not leaving his friends to
                        wander alone in the wilderness while he drifted weakly into the comforts and
                        pleasures of an enviable service? His heart was not in full sympathy with
                        the present turn of affairs, and he could not deny that a selfish motive was
                        responsible for his action. He had the all too human eagerness to serve
                        beauty; the blood and fire of youth were strong in this wayward nobleman of
                        the hills.
                    Lying back in the seat, he pensively studied the face  of the sleeping girl whose dark-brown head was
                        pillowed against the corner cushions of the coach. Her hat had been removed
                        for the sake of comfort. The dark lashes fell like a soft curtain over her
                        eyes, obscuring the merry gray that had overcome his apprehensions. Her
                        breathing was deep and regular and peaceful. One little gloved hand rested
                        carelessly in her lap, the other upon her breast near the delicate throat.
                        The heart of Baldos was troubled. The picture he looked upon was entrancing,
                        uplifting; he rose from the lowly state in which she had found him to the
                        position of admirer in secret to a princess, real or assumed. He found
                        himself again wondering if she were really Yetive, and with that fear in his
                        heart he was envying Grenfall Lorry, the lord and master of this exquisite
                        creature, envying with all the helplessness of one whose hope is blasted at
                        birth.
                    The note which had been surreptitiously passed to him in Ganlook lay crumpled
                        and forgotten inside his coat pocket, where he had dropped it the moment it
                        had come into his possession, supposing that the message contained
                        information which had been forgotten by Franz, and was by no means of a
                        nature to demand immediate attention. Had he read it at once his suspicions
                        would have been confirmed, and it is barely possible that lie would have
                        refused to enter the city.
                    Late in the afternoon the walls of Edelweiss were sighted. For the first time
                        he looked upon the distant housetops of the principal city of Graustark. Up
                        in the clouds, on the summit of the mountain peak over-  looking the city, stood the famed monastery of Saint
                        Valentine. Stretching up the gradual incline were the homes of citizens,
                        accessible only by footpaths and donkey roads. Beverly was awake and
                        impatient to reach the journey's end. He had proved a most
                        disappointing companion, polite, but with a baffling indifference that
                        irritated her considerably. There was a set expression of defiance in his
                        strong, clean-cut face, the look of a soldier advancing to meet a powerful
                        foe.
                    "I do hope he'll not always act this way," she was
                        complaining in her thoughts. "He was so charmingly impudent out in
                        the hills, so deliciously human. Now he is like a clam. Yetive will think I
                        am such a fool if he doesn't live up to the reputation
                        I've given him!"
                    "Here are the gates," he said, half to himself.
                        "What is there in store for me beyond those walls?"
                    "Oh, I wish you wouldn't be so dismal," she cried
                        in despair. "It seems just like a funeral."
                    "A thousand apologies, your highness," he murmured, with a
                        sudden lightness of speech and manner. "Henceforth I shall be a
                        most amiable jester, to please you."
                    Beverly and the faithful Aunt Fanny were driven to the castle, where the
                        former bade farewell to her new knight until the following morning, when he
                        was to appear before her for personal instructions. Colonel Quinnox escorted
                        him to the barracks of the guard, where he was to share a room with young
                        Haddan, a corporal in the service.
                    
                    "The wild, untamed gentleman from the hills came without a word, I
                        see," said Lorry, who had watched the approach. He and Yetive stood
                        in the window overlooking the grounds from the princess's boudoir.
                        Beverly had just entered and thrown herself upon a divan.
                    "Yes, he's here," she said shortly.
                    "How long do you, with all your cleverness, expect to hoodwink him
                        into the belief that you are the princess?" asked Yetive, amused
                        but anxious.
                    "He's a great fool for being hoodwinked at all,"
                        said Beverly, very much at odds with her protg. "In an hour from
                        now he will know the truth and will be howling like a madman for his
                        freedom."
                    "Not so soon as that, Beverly," said Lorry consolingly.
                        "The guards and officers have their instructions to keep him in the
                        dark as long as possible."
                    "Well, I'm tired and mad and hungry and everything else
                        that isn't compatible. Let's talk about the war,"
                        said Beverly, the sunshine in her face momentarily eclipsed by the dark
                        cloud of disappointment.
                    Baldos was notified that duty would be assigned to him in the morning. He
                        went through the formalities which bound him to the service for six months,
                        listening indifferently to the words that foretold the fate of a traitor. It
                        was not until his new uniform and equipment came into his possession that he
                        remembered the note resting in his pocket. He drew it out and began to read
                        it with the slight interest of one who has anticipated the effect. But not
                        for long was  he to remain apathetic. The
                        first few lines brought a look of understanding to his eyes; then he laughed
                        the easy laugh of one who has cast care and confidence to the winds. This is
                        what he read: 
                            
                                
                                    "She is not the princess. We have been duped. Last
                                        night I learned the truth. She is Miss Calhoun, an American,
                                        going to be a guest at the castle. Refuse to go with her
                                        into Edelweiss. It may be a trap and may mean death.
                                        Question her boldly before committing
                                        yourself."
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    There came the natural impulse to make a dash for the outside world, fighting
                        his way through if necessary. Looking back over the ground, he wondered how
                        he could have been deceived at all by the unconventional American. In the
                        clear light of retrospection he now saw how impossible it was for her to
                        have been the princess. Every act, every word, every look should have told
                        him the truth. Every flaw in her masquerading now presented itself to him
                        and he was compelled to laugh at his own simplicity. Caution, after all, was
                        the largest component part of his make-up; the craftiness of the hunted was
                        deeply rooted in his being. He saw a very serious side to the adventure.
                        Stretching himself upon the cot in the corner of the room he gave himself
                        over to plotting, planning, thinking.
                    In the midst of his thoughts a sudden light burst in upon him. His eyes
                        gleamed with a new fire, his heart leaped with new animation, his blood ran
                        warm again. Leaping to his feet he ran to the window to re-read the note
                        from old Franz. Then he settled back and laughed with a fervor that cleared
                        the brain of a thousand vague misgivings.
                    
                    " She is Miss Calhoun, an American going to be a guest at the
                        castle," --- not the princess, but Miss Calhoun. Once more the
                        memory of the clear gray eyes leaped into life; again he saw her asleep in
                        the coach on the road from Ganlook; again he recalled the fervent throbs his
                        guilty heart had felt as he looked upon this fair creature, at one time the
                        supposed treasure of another man. Now she was Miss Calhoun, and her gray
                        eyes, her entrancing smile, her wondrous vivacity were not for one man
                        alone. It was marvelous what a change this sudden realization wrought in the
                        view ahead of him. The whole situation seemed to be transformed into
                        something more desirable than ever before. His face cleared, his spirits
                        leaped higher and higher with the buoyancy of fresh relief, his confidence
                        in himself crept back into existence. And all because the fair deceiver, the
                        slim girl with the brave gray eyes who had drawn him into a net, was not a
                        princess!
                    Something told him that she had not drawn him into his present position with
                        any desire to injure or with the slightest sense of malice. To her it had
                        been a merry jest, a pleasant comedy. Underneath all he saw the goodness of
                        her motive in taking him from the old life, and putting him into his present
                        position of trust. He had helped her, and she was ready to help him to the
                        limit of her power. His position in Edelweiss was clearly enough defined.
                        The more he thought of it, the more justifiable it seemed as viewed from her
                        point of observation. How long she hoped to keep him in the dark he could
                        not tell. The out-  come would be
                        entertaining; her efforts to deceive, if she kept them up, would be amusing.
                        Altogether, he was ready, with the leisure and joy of youth, to await
                        developments and to enjoy the comedy from a point of view which she could
                        not at once suspect.
                    His subtle efforts to draw Haddan into a discussion of the princess and her
                        household resulted unsatisfactorily. The young guard was annoyingly
                        unresponsive. He had his secret instructions and could not be inveigled into
                        betraying himself. Baldos went to sleep that night with his mind confused by
                        doubts. His talk with Haddan had left him quite undecided as to the value of
                        old Franz's warning. Either Franz was mistaken, or Haddan was a
                        most skilful dissembler. It struck him as utterly beyond the pale of reason
                        that the entire castle guard should have been enlisted in the scheme to
                        deceive him. When sleep came, he was contenting himself with the thought
                        that morning doubtless would give him clearer insight to the situation.
                    Both he and Beverly Calhoun were ignorant of the true conditions that
                        attached themselves to the new recruit. Baron Dangloss alone knew that
                        Haddan was a trusted agent of the secret service, with instructions to
                        shadow the newcomer day and night. That there was a mystery surrounding the
                        character of Baldos, the goat-hunter, Dangloss did not question for an
                        instant: and in spite of the instructions received at the outset, he was
                        using all his skill to unravel it.
                    Baldos was not summoned to the castle until noon. His serene indifference to
                        the outcome of the visit was  calculated to
                        deceive the friendly but watchful Haddan. Dressed carefully in the
                        close-fitting uniform of the royal guard, taller than most of his fellows,
                        handsomer by far than any, he was the most noticeable figure in and about
                        the barracks. Haddan coached him in the way he was to approach the princess,
                        Baldos listening with exaggerated intentness and with deep regard for
                        detail.
                    Beverly was in the small audience-room off the main exception hall when he
                        was ushered into her presence. The servants and ladies-in-waiting
                        disappeared at a signal from her. She arose to greet him and he knelt to
                        kiss her hand. For a moment her tongue was bound. The keen eyes of the new
                        guard had looked into hers with a directness that seemed to penetrate her
                        brain. That this scene was to be one of the most interesting in the little
                        comedy was proved by the fact that two eager young women were hidden behind
                        a heavy curtain in a corner of the room. The Princess Yetive and the
                        Countess Dagmar were there to enjoy Beverly's first hour of
                        authority, and she was aware their presence.
                    "Have they told you that you are to act as my especial guard and
                        escort?" she asked, with a queer flutter in her voice. Somehow this
                        tall fellow with the broad shoulders was not the same as the ragged
                        goat-hunter she had known at first.
                    "No, your highness," said he, easily. "I have for
                        instructions. It pleases me to know that I am to have a place of honor and
                        trust such as this."
                    "General Marlanx has told me that a vacancy  exists, and I have selected you to fill it. The
                        compensation will be attended to by the proper persons, and your duties will
                        be explained to you by one of the officers. This afternoon, I believe, you
                        are to accompany me on my visit to the fortress, which I am to
                        inspect."
                    "Very well, your highness," he respectfully said. He was
                        thinking of Miss Calhoun, an American girl although he called her
                        "your highness." "May I be permitted to ask for
                        instructions that can come only from your highness?"
                    "Certainly," she replied. His manner was more deferential
                        than she had ever known it to be, but he threw a bomb into her fine
                        composure with his next remark. He addressed her in the Graustark
                        language:
                    "Is it your desire that I shall continue to address you in
                        English?"
                    Beverly's face turned a bit red and her eyes wavered. By a wonderful
                        effort she retained her self-control, stammering ever so faintly when she
                        said in English:
                    "I wish you would speak English," unwitting giving answer
                        to his question. "I shall insist up that. Your English is too good
                        to be spoiled."
                    Then he made a bold test, his first having failed. He spoke once more in the
                        native tongue, this time softly and earnestly.
                    "As you wish, your highness, but I think it is a most ridiculous
                        practice," he said, and his heart lost none of its courage. Beverly
                        looked at him almost pathetically. She knew that behind the curtain two  young women were enjoying her discomfiture.
                        Something told her that they were stifling their mirth with dainty
                        lace-bordered handkerchiefs.
                    "That will do, sir," she managed to say firmly.
                        It's very nice of you, but after this pay your homage in
                        English," she went on, taking a long chance on his remark. It must
                        have been complimentary, she reasoned. As for Baldos, the faintest sign of a
                        smile touched his lips and his eyes were twinkling as he bent his head
                        quickly. Franz was right; she did not know a word of the Graustark
                        language.
                    "I have entered the service for six months, your highness,"
                        he said in English. "You have honored me, and I give my heart as
                        well as my arm to your cause."
                    Beverly, breathing easier, was properly impressed by this promise of fealty.
                        She was looking with pride upon the figure of her stalwart protg.
                    "I hope you have destroyed that horrid black patch" she
                        said.
                    "It has gone to keep company with other devoted but deserted
                        friends," he said, a tinge of bitterness in his voice.
                    "The uniform is vastly becoming," she went on, realizing
                        helplessly that she was providing intense amusement for the unseen
                        auditors.
                    "It shames the rags in which you found me."
                    "I shall never forget them, Baldos," she said, with a
                        strange earnestness in her voice.
                    "May I presume to inquire after the health of your good Aunt Fanny
                        and --- although I did not see  him --- your
                        Uncle Sam?" he asked, with a face as straight and sincere as that
                        of a judge. Beverly swallowed suddenly and checked a laugh with some
                        difficulty.
                    "Aunt Fanny is never ill. Some day I shall tell you more of Uncle
                        Sam. It will interest you."
                    "Another question, if it please your highness. Do you expect to
                        return to America soon?"
                    This was the unexpected, but she met it with admirable composure.
                    "It depends upon the time when Prince Dantan resumes the throne in
                        Dawsbergen," she said.
                    "And that day may never come," said he, such mocking regret
                        in his voice that she looked upon him with newer interest.
                    "Why, I really believe you want to go to America," she
                        cried.
                    The eyes of Baldos had been furtively drawn to the curtain more than once
                        during the last few minutes. An occasional movement of the long oriental
                        hangings attracted his attention. It dawned upon him that the little play
                        was being overheard, whether by spies or conspirators he knew not.
                        Resentment sprang up in his breast and gave birth to a daring that was as
                        spectacular as it was confounding. With long, noiseless strides, he reached
                        the door before Beverly could interpose. She half started from her chair, he
                        eyes wide with dismay, her lips parted, but his hand was already clutching
                        the curtain. He threw it aside relentlessly. Two startled women stood
                        exposed to view, smiles 
                        
                            "Your Highness," he said clearly, coolly,
                                "I fear we have spies and eavesdroppers here."
                        
                         dying on their amazed faces. Their backs were
                        against the closed door and two hands clutching handkerchiefs dropped from a
                        most significant altitude. One of them flashed an imperious glance at the
                        bold discoverer, and he knew he was looking upon the real princess of
                        Graustark. He did not lose his composure. Without a tremor he turned to the
                        American girl.
                    "Your highness," he said clearly, coolly, "I fear
                        we have spies and eavesdroppers here. Is your court made up of --- I should
                        say, they are doubtless a pair of curious ladies-in-wvaiting. Shall I begin
                        my services, your highness, by escorting them to yonder door?"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII
                    THE THREE PRINCES
                    BEVERLY gasped. The countess stared blankly at the new guard. Yetive flushed
                        deeply, bit her lip in hopeless chagrin, and dropped her eyes. A pretty
                        turn, indeed, the play had taken! Not a word was uttered for a full
                        half-minute; nor did the guilty witnesses venture forth from their retreat.
                        Baldos stood tall and impassive, holding the curtain aside. At last the
                        shadow of a smile crept into the face of the princess, but her tones were
                        full of deep humility when she spoke.
                    "We crave permission to retire, your highness," she said,
                        and there was virtuous appeal in her eyes. "I pray forgiveness for
                        this indiscretion and implore you to be lenient with two miserable creatures
                        who love you so well that they forget their dignity."
                    "I am amazed and shocked," was all that Beverly could say.
                        "You may go, but return to me within an hour. I will then hear what
                        you have to say."
                    Slowly, even humbly, the ruler of Graustark and her cousin passed beneath the
                        upraised arm of the new guard. He opened a door on the opposite side of  the room, and they went out, to all
                        appearance thoroughly crestfallen. The steady features of the guard did not
                        relax for the fraction of a second, but his heart was thumping
                        disgracefully.
                    "Come here, Baldos," commanded Beverly, a bit pale, but
                        recovering her wits with admirable promptness. "This is a matter
                        which I shall dispose of privately. It is to go no further, you are to
                        understand."
                    "Yes, your highness."
                    "You may go now. Colonel Quinnox will explain everything,"
                        she said hurriedly. She was eager to be rid of him. As he turned away she
                        observed a faint but peculiar smile at the corner of his mouth.
                    "Come here, sir!" she exclaimed hotly. He caused, his face
                        as sombre as an owl's. "What do you mean by laughing like
                        that?" she demanded. He caught the fierce note in her voice, but
                        gave it the proper interpretation.
                    "Laughing, your highness?" he said in deep surprise.
                        "You must be mistaken. I am sure that I could not have laughed in
                        the presence of a princess."
                    "It must have been a --- a shadow, then," she retracted,
                        somewhat startled by his rejoinder. "Very well, then; you are
                        dismissed."
                    As he was about to open the door through which had entered the room, it swung
                        wide and Count Marlanx strode in. Baldos paused irresolutely, and then
                        proceeded on his way without paying the slightest attention to the commander
                        of the army. Mar-  lanx came to an amazed stop
                        and his face flamed with resentment.
                    "Halt, sir!" he exclaimed harshly. "Don't
                        you know enough to salute me, sir?"
                    Baldos turned instantly, his figure straightening like a flash. His eyes met
                        those of the Iron Count and did not waver, although his face went white with
                        passion.
                    "And who are you, sir?" he asked in cold, steely tones. The
                        count almost reeled.
                    "Your superior officer --- that should be enough for you!"
                        he half hissed with deadly levelness.
                    "Oh, then I see no reason why I should not salute you,
                        sir," said Baldos, with one of his rare smiles. He saluted his
                        superior officer a shade too elaborately and turned away. Marlanx's
                        eyes glistened.
                    "Stop! Have I said you could go, sir? I have a bit of advice to
                        ----"
                    "My command to go comes from your superior,
                        sir," said Baldos, with irritating blandness.
                    "Be patient, general," cried Beverly in deep distress.
                        "He does not know any better. I will stand sponsor for
                        him." And Baldos went away with light step, his blood singing, his
                        devil-may-care hear satisfied. The look in her eyes was very sustaining. As
                        he left the castle he said aloud to himself with an easy disregard of the
                        consequences:
                    "Well, it seems that I am to be associated with the devil as well as
                        with angels. Heavens! June is glorious month."
                    "Now, you promised you'd be nice to him, Gen  Marlanx," cried Beverly the instant Baldos
                        was out of the room. "He's new at this sort of thing, you
                        know, and besides, you didn't address him very politely for an
                        utter stranger."
                    "The insolent dog," snarled Marlanx, his self-control
                        returning slowly. "He shall be taught well and thoroughly, never
                        fear, Miss Calhoun. There is a way to train such recruits as he, and they
                        never forget what they have learned."
                    "Oh, please don't be harsh with him," she pleaded.
                        The smile of the Iron Count was not at all reassuring. "I know he
                        will be sorry for what he has done, and you ----"
                    I am quite sure he will be sorry," said he, with a most agreeable
                        bow in submission to her appeal.
                    "Do you want to see Mr. Lorry?" she asked quickly.
                        "I will send for him, general." She was at the door,
                        impatient to be with the banished culprits.
                    "My business with Mr. Lorry can wait," he began, with a
                        smile meant to be inviting, but which did not impress her at all
                        pleasantly.
                    "Well, anyway, I'll tell him you're
                        here," she said, her hand on the door-knob. "Will you wait
                        here? Good-bye!" And then she was racing off through the long halls
                        and up broad stair-cases toward the boudoir of the princess. There is no
                        telling how long the ruffled count remained in the ante-room, for the
                        excited Beverly forgot to tell Lorry that he was there.
                    There were half a dozen people in the room when Beverly entered eagerly. She
                        was panting with ex-  citement. Of all the
                        rooms in the grim old castle, the boudoir of the princess was the most
                        famously attractive. It was really her home, the exquisite abiding place of
                        an exquisite creature. To lounge on her divans, to loll in the chairs, to
                        glide through her priceless rugs was the acme of indolent pleasure. Few were
                        they who enjoyed the privileges of "Little Heaven," as
                        Harry Anguish had christened it on one memorable night, long before the
                        princess was Mrs. Grenfall Lorry.
                    "Now, how do you feel?" cried the flushed
                        American girl, pausing in the door to point an impressive finger at the
                        princess, who was lying back in a huge chair, the picture of distress and
                        annoyance.
                    "I shall never be able to look that man in the face again,"
                        came dolefully from Yetive's humbled lips. Dagmar was all smiles
                        and in the fittest of humors. She was the kind of a culprit who loves the
                        punishment because of the crime.
                    "Wasn't it ridiculous, and wasn't it just too
                        lovely?" she cried.
                    "It was extremely theatrical," agreed Beverly, seating
                        herself on the arm of Yetive's chair and throwing a warm arm around
                        her neck. "Have you all heard about it?" she demanded,
                        naively, turning to the others, who unquestionably had had a jumbled account
                        of the performance.
                    "You got just what you deserved," said Lorry, who was
                        immensely amused.
                    "I wonder what your august vagabond thinks his princess and her
                        ladies-in-hiding?" mused Harry 
                        Anguish. The Count and Countess Halfont were smiling in spite of the assault
                        upon the dignity of the court."
                    I'd give anything to know what he really thinks," said the
                        real princess. "Oh, Beverly, wasn't it awful? And how he
                        marched us out of that room!"
                    "I thought it was great," said Beverly,
                        her eyes glowing. "Wasn't it splendid? And isn't
                        he good looking?"
                    "He is good looking, I imagine, but I am no judge, dear. It was
                        utterly impossible for me to look at his face," lamented the
                        princess.
                    "What are you going to do with us?" asked Dagmar
                        penitently.
                    "You are to spend the remainder of your life in a dungeon with
                        Baldos as guard," decided Miss Calhoun.
                    "Beverly, dear, that man is no ordinary person," said the
                        princess, quite positively.
                    "Of course he isn't. He's a tall, dark
                        mystery."
                    "I observed him as he crossed the terrace this morning,"
                        said Lorry. "He's a striking sort of chap, and
                        I'll bet my head he's not what he claims to
                        be."
                    "He claims to be a fugitive, you must remember," said
                        Beverly, in his defense.
                    "I mean that he is no common malefactor or whatever it may be. Who
                        and what do you suppose he is? I confess that I'm interested in the
                        fellow and he looks as though one might like him without half trying. Why
                        haven't you dug up his past history, Beverly? You are so keen about
                        him."
                    
                    "He positively refuses to let me dig," explained Beverly.
                        "I tried, you know, but he --- he --- well, he squelched
                        me."
                    "Well, after all is said and done, he caught us peeping to-day, and
                        I am filled with shame," said the princess. "It
                        doesn't matter who he is, he must certainly have a must
                        unflattering opinion as to what we are."
                    "And he is sure to know us sooner or later," said the young
                        countess, momentarily serious.
                    "Oh, if it ever comes to that I shall be in a splendid position to
                        explain it all to him," said Beverly. "Don't you
                        see, I'll have to do a lot of explaining myself?"
                    "Baron Dangloss!" announced the guard of the upper hall,
                        throwing open the door for the doughty little chief of police.
                    "Your highness sent for me?" asked he, advanceing after the
                        formal salutation. The princess exhibited genuine amazement.
                    "I did, Baron Dangloss, but you must have comt with the wings of an
                        eagle. It is really not more than three minutes since I gave the order to
                        Colonel Quinnox." The baron smiled mysteriously, but volunteered no
                        solution. The truth is, he was entering the castle doors as the messenger
                        left them, but he was much too fond of effect to spoil a good situation by
                        explanations. It was a long two miles to his office in the Tower.
                        "Something has just happened that impels me to ask a few questions
                        concerning Baldos, the new guard."
                    
                    "May I first ask what has happened?" Dangloss was at a loss
                        for the meaning of the general smile that went around.
                    "It is quite personal and of no consequence. What do you know of
                        him? My curiosity is aroused. Now, be quiet, Beverly; you are as eager to
                        know as the rest of us."
                    "Well, your highness, I may as well confess that the man is a puzzle
                        to me. He comes here a vagabond, but he certainly does not act like one. He
                        admits that he is being hunted, but takes no one into his confidence. For
                        that, he cannot be blamed."
                    "Have you any reason to suspect who he is?" asked
                        Lorry.
                    "My instructions were to refrain from questioning him,"
                        complained Dangloss, with a pathetic look at the original plotters.
                        "Still, I have made investigations along other lines."
                    "And who is he?" cried Beverly, eagerly.
                    "I don't know," was the disappointing answer. We
                        are confronted by a queer set of circumstances. Doubtless you all know that
                        young Prince Dantan is flying from the wrath of his half-brother, our
                        lamented friend Gabriel. He is supposed to be in our hills with a
                        half-starved body of followers. It seems impossible that he could have
                        reached our northern boundaries without our outposts catching a glimpse him
                        at some time. The trouble is that his face is unknown to most of us, I among
                        the others. I have been going on the presumption that Baldos is in  reality Prince Dantan. But last night the
                        belief received a severe shock."
                    "Yes?" came from several eager lips.
                    "My men who are watching the Dawsbergen frontier came in last night
                        and reported that Dantan had been seen by mountaineers no later than Sunday,
                        three days ago. These mountaineers were in sympathy with him, and refused to
                        tell whither he went. We only know that he was in the southern part of
                        Graustark three days ago. Our new guard speaks many languages, but he has
                        never been heard to use that of Dawsbergen. That fact in itself is not
                        surprising, for, of all things, he would avoid his mother tongue. Dantan is
                        part English by birth and wholly so by cultivation. In that he evidently
                        finds a mate in this Baldos."
                    "Then, he really isn't Prince Dantan?" cried
                        Beverly, as though a cherished ideal had been shattered.
                    "Not if we are to believe the tales from the south. Here is another
                        complication, however. There is, as you know, Count Halfont, and perhaps all
                        of you, for that matter, a pretender to the throne of Axphain, the fugitive
                        Prince Frederic. He is described as young, good looking, a scholar and the
                        next thing to a pauper."
                    "Baldos a mere pretender," cried Beverly in real distress.
                        "Never!"
                    "At any rate, he is not what he pretends to be," said the
                        baron, with a wise smile.
                    
                    "Then, you think he may be Prince Frederic?" asked Lorry,
                        deeply interested.
                    "I am inclined to think so, although another complication has
                        arisen. May it please your highness, I am in an amazingly tangled state of
                        mind," admitted the baron, passing his hand over his brow.
                    "Do you mean that another mysterious prince has come to
                        life?" asked Yetive, her eyes sparkling with interest in the
                        revelations.
                    "Early this morning a despatch came to me from the Grand Duke
                        Michael of Rapp-Thorberg, a duchy in western Europe, informing me that the
                        duke's eldest son had fled from home and is known to have come to
                        the far east, possibly to Graustark."
                    "Great Scott!" exclaimed Anguish. "It never rains
                        but it hails, so here's hail to the princes three."
                    "We are the Mecca for runaway royalty, it seems," said
                        Count Halfont.
                    "Go on with the story, Baron Dangloss," cried the princess.
                        "It is like a book."
                    "A description of the young man accompanies the offer of a large
                        reward for information that may lead to his return home for reconciliation.
                        And -----" here the baron paused dramatically.
                    "And what?" interjected Beverly, who could not wait.
                    'The description fits our friend Baldos perfectly!"
                    You don't mean it?" exclaimed Lorry. "Then, he may
                        be any one of the three you have mentioned?"
                    "Let me tell you what the grand duke's secretary  says. I have the official notice, but left it
                        in my desk. The runaway son of the grand duke is called Christobal. He is
                        twenty-seven years of age, speaks English fluently, besides French and our
                        own language. It seems that he attended an English college with Prince
                        Dantan and some of our own young men who are still in England. Six weeks ago
                        he disappeared from his father's home. At the same time a dozen
                        wild and venturous retainers left the grand duchy. The party was seen in
                        Vienna a week later, and the young duke boldly announced that he was off to
                        the east to help his friend Dantan in the fight for his throne. Going on the
                        theory that Baldos is this same Christobal, we have only to provide a reason
                        for his preferring the wilds to the comforts of our cities. In the first
                        place, he knows there is a large reward for his apprehension and he fears
                        --- our police. In the second place, he does not care to direct the
                        attention of Prince Dantan's foes to himself. He missed Dantan in
                        the hills and doubtless was lost for weeks. But the true reason for his
                        flight is made plain in the story that was printed recently in Paris and
                        Berlin newspapers. According to them, Christobal rebelled against his
                        father's right to select a wife for him. The grand duke had chosen
                        a noble and wealthy bride, and the son had selected a beautiful girl from
                        the lower walks of life. Father and son quarreled and neither would give an
                        inch. Christobal would not marry his father's choice, and the grand
                        duke would not sanction his union with the fair plebeian."
                    Here Beverly exclaimed proudly, her face glow- 
                        ing: "He doesn't look like the sort of man who could be
                        bullied into marrying anybody if he didn't want to."
                    "And he strikes me as the sort who would marry any one he set his
                        heart upon having," added the princess, with a taunting glance at
                        Miss Calhoun.
                    "Umph!" sniffed Beverly defiantly. The baron went on with
                        his narrative, exhibiting signs of excitement.
                    "To lend color to the matter, Christobal's sweetheart, the
                        daughter of a game-warden, was murdered the night before her lover fled. I
                        know nothing of the circumstances attending the crime, but it is my
                        uderstanding that Christobal is not suspected. It is possible that he is
                        ignorant even now of the girl's fate."
                    "Well, by the gods, we have a goodly lot of heroes about
                        us," exclaimed Lorry.
                    "But, after all," ventured the Countess Halfont,
                        "Baldos may be none of these men."
                    "Good heavens, Aunt Yvonne, don't suggest anything so
                        distressing," said Yetive. "He must be
                        one of them."
                    "I suggest a speedy way of determining the matter," said
                        Anguish. "Let us send for Baldos and ask him point blank who he is.
                        I think it is up to him to clear away the mystery."
                    "No!" cried Beverly, starting to her feet.
                    "It seems to be the only way," said Lorry.
                    "But I promised him that no questions should be  asked," said Beverly, almost tearfully but
                        quite resolutely. "Didn't I, Yet --- your
                        highness?"
                    "Alas, yes!" said the princess, with a pathetic little
                        smile of resignation, but with loyalty in the clasp of her hand.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV
                    A VISIT AND ITS CONSEQUENCES
                    THAT same afternoon Baldos, blissfully ignorant of the stir he had created in
                        certain circles, rode out for the first time as a member of the Castle
                        Guard. He and Haddan were detailed by Colonel Quinnox to act as private
                        escort to Miss Calhoun until otherwise ordered. If Haddan thought himself
                        wiser than Baldos in knowing that their charge was not the princess, he was
                        very much mistaken; if he enjoyed the trick that was being played on his
                        fellow guards-man, his enjoyment was as nothing as compared to the pleasure
                        Baldos was deriving from the situation. The royal victoria was driven to the
                        fortress, conveying the supposed princess and the Countess Dagmar to the
                        home of Count Marlanx. The two guards rode bravely behind the equipage,
                        resplendent in brilliant new uniforms. Baldos was mildly surprised and
                        puzzled by the homage paid the young American girl. It struck him as
                        preposterous that the entire population of Edelweiss could be in the game to
                        deceive him.
                    "Who is the princess's companion?" he inquired of
                        Haddan, as they left the castle grounds.
                    
                    "The Countess Dagmar, cousin to her highness. She is the wife of Mr.
                        Anguish."
                    "I have seen her before," said Baldos, a strange smile on
                        his face.
                    The Countess Dagmar found it difficult at first to meet the eye of the new
                        guard, but he was so punctiliously oblivious that her courage was restored.
                        She even went so far as to whisper in Beverly's ear that he did not
                        remember her face, and probably would not recognize Yetive as one of the
                        eavesdroppers. The princess had flatly refused to accompany the on the visit
                        to the fortress because of Baldos. Struck by a sudden impulse, Beverly
                        called Baldos to the side of the vehicle.
                    "Baldos, you behaved very nicely yesterday in exposing the duplicity
                        of those young women," she said.
                    "I am happy to have pleased your highness," he said
                        steadily.
                    "It may interest you to know that they ceased to be
                        ladies-in-waiting after that exposure."
                    "Yes, your highness, it certainly is interesting," he said,
                        as he fell back into position beside Haddan. During the remainder of the
                        ride he caught himself time after time gazing reflectively at the back of
                        her proud little head, possessed of an almost uncontrollable desire to touch
                        the soft brown hair.
                    "You can't fool that excellent young man much longer, my
                        dear," said the countess, recalling the look in his dark eyes. The
                        same thought had been a afflicting Beverly with its probabilities for
                        twenty-four hours and more.
                    
                    Count Marlanx welcomed his visitors with a graciousness that awoke wonder in
                        the minds of his staff. His marked preference for the American girl did not
                        escape attention. Some of the bolder young officers indulged in
                        surreptitious grimaces, and all looked with more or less compassion upon the
                        happy-faced beauty from over the sea. Marlanx surveyed Baldos steadily and
                        coldly, deep disapproval in his sinister eyes. He had not forgotten the
                        encounter of the day before.
                    "I see the favorite is on guard," he said blandly.
                        "Has he told you of the lesson in manners he enjoyed last
                        night?" He was leading his guests toward the quarters, Baldos and
                        Haddan following. The new guard could not help hearing the sarcastic
                        remark.
                    "You didn't have him beaten?" cried Beverly,
                        stopping short.
                    "No, but I imagine it would have been preferable. I talked with him for half an hour," said the general,
                        laughing significantly.
                    When the party stopped at the drinking-fountain in the center of the fort,
                        Baldos halted near by. His face was as impassive as marble, his eyes set
                        straight before him, his figure erect and soldierly. An occasional sarcastic
                        remark by the Iron Count, meant for ears, made no impression upon the deadly
                        composure of the new guard who had had his lesson. Miss
                        Calhoun was conscious of a vague feeling that she had served Baldos an
                        ill-turn when she put him into this position.
                    The count provided a light luncheon in his quar-  ters after the ladies had gone over the fortress. Beverly Calhoun, with
                        all of a woman's indifference to things material, could not but see
                        how poorly equipped the fort was as compared to the ones she had seen in the
                        United States. She and the countess visited the armory, the arsenal, and the
                        repair shop before luncheon, reserving the pleasures of the clubhouse, the
                        officers' quarters, and the parade-ground until afterwards. Count
                        Marlanx's home was in the southeast corner of the enclosure, near
                        the gates. Several of the officers lunched with him and the young ladies.
                        Marlanx was assiduous in his attention Beverly Calhoun --- so much so, in
                        fact, that the countess teased her afterwards about her conquest of the old
                        and well-worn heart. Beverly thought him extremely silly and sentimental,
                        much preferring him in the character of the harsh, implacable martinet.
                    At regular intervals she saw the straight, martial form of Baldos pass the
                        window near which she sat. He was patrolling the narrow piazza which fronted
                        the house. Toward the close of the rather trying luncheon she was almost
                        unable to control the impulse to rush out and compel him to relax that
                        imposing, machine-like stride. She hungered for a few minutes of the
                        old-time freedom with him.
                    The Iron Count was showing her some rare antique bronzes he had collected in
                        the south. The luncheon was over and the countess had strolled off toward
                        the bastions with the young officers, leaving Beverly alone with the host.
                        Servants came in to clear the  tables, but the
                        count harshly ordered them to wait until the guests had departed.
                    "It is the dearest thing I have seen," said Beverly,
                        holding a rare old candlestick at arm's length and looking at it in
                        as many ways as the wrist could turn. Her loose sleeves ended just below the
                        elbows. The count's eyes followed the graceful curves of her white
                        forearm with an eagerness that was annoying.
                    "I prize it more dearly than any other piece in my
                        collection," he said. "It came from Rome; it has history
                        which I shall try to tell you some day, and which makes it almost
                        invaluable. A German noble-man offered me a small fortune if I would part
                        with it."
                    "And you wouldn't sell it?"
                    "I was saving it for an occasion, your highness," said, his
                        steely eyes glittering. "The glad hour has come when I can part
                        with it for a recompense far greater than the baron's
                        gold."
                    "Oh, isn't it lucky you kept it?" she cried. Then
                        she turned her eyes away quickly, for his gaze seemed greedily endeavoring
                        to pierce through the lace insertion covering her neck and shoulders.
                        Outside the window the steady tramp of the tall guard went on
                        monotonously.
                    The recompense of a sweet smile, a tender blush and the unguarded thanks of a
                        pretty woman. The candlestick is yours, Miss Calhoun, --- if you will repay
                        me for my sacrifice by accepting it without reservation."
                    Slowly Beverly Calhoun set the candlestick down  upon the table, her eyes meeting his with steady disdain.
                    "What a rare old jester you are, Count Marlanx, she said without a
                        smile. "If I thought you were in earnest I should scream with
                        laughter. May I suggest that we join the countess? We must hurry along, you
                        know. She and I have promised to play tennis with the princess at three
                        o'clock." The count's glare of disappointment
                        lasted but a moment. The diplomacy of egotism came to his relief, and he
                        held back the gift for another day, but not for another woman.
                    "It grieves me to have you hurry away. My afternoon is to be a dull
                        one, unless you permit me watch the tennis game," he said.
                    "I thought you were interested only in the game of war,"
                        she said pointedly.
                    "I stand in greater awe of a tennis ball than I do of a cannonball,
                        if it is sent by such an arm as yours," and he not only laid his
                        eyes but his hand upon her bare arm. She started as if something had stung
                        her, and a cold shiver raced over her warm flesh. His eyes for the moment
                        held her spellbound. He was drawing the hand to his lips when a shadow
                        darkened the French window, and a saber rattled warningly.
                    Count Marlanx looked up instantly, a scowl on his face. Baldos stood at the
                        window in an attitude of alert attention. Beverly drew her arm away
                        spasmodically and took a step toward the window. The guard saw by her eves
                        that she was frightened, but,  if his heart
                        beat violently, his face was the picture of military stoniness.
                    "What are you doing there?" snarled the count.
                    "Did your highness call?" asked Baldos coolly.
                    "She did not call, fellow," said the count with deadly
                        menace in his voice. "Report to me in half an hour. You still have
                        something to learn, I see." Beverly was alarmed by the threat in
                        his tones. She saw what was in store for Baldos, for she knew quite as well
                        as Marlanx that the guard had deliberately intervened in her behalf.
                    "He cannot come in half an hour," she cried quickly.
                        "I have something for him to do, Count Marlanx. Besides, I think I
                            did call." Both men stared at her.
                    "My ears are excellent," said Marlanx stiffly.
                    "I fancy Baldos's must be even better, for he heard
                        me," said Beverly, herself once more. The shadow of a smile crossed
                        the face of the guard.
                    "He is impertinent, insolent, your highness. You will report to me
                        to-morrow, sir, at nine o'clock in Colonel Quinnox's
                        quarters. Now, go!" commanded the count.
                    "Wait a minute, Baldos. We are going out, too. Will you open that
                        window for me?" Baldos gladly took it as a command and threw open
                        the long French window. She gave him a grateful glance as she stepped
                        through, and he could scarcely conceal the gleam of joy that shot into his
                        own eyes. The dark scowl on the count's face made absolutely no
                        impres-  sion upon him. He closed the window
                        and followed ten paces behind the couple.
                    "Your guard is a priceless treasure," said the count
                        grimly.
                    "That's what you said about the candlestick," said
                        she sweetly.
                    She was disturbed by his threat to reprimand Baldos. For some time her mind
                        had been struggling with what the count had said about "the
                        lesson." It grew upon her that her friend had been bullied and
                        humiliated, perhaps in the presence of spectators. Resentment fired her
                        curiosity into action. While the general was explaining one of the new
                        gun-carriages to the countess, Beverly walked deliberately over to where
                        Baldos was standing. Haddan's knowledge of English was exceedingly
                        limited, and he could understand but little of the rapid conversation.
                        Standing squarely in front of Baldos, she questioned him in low tones.
                    "What did he mean when he said he had given you a lesson?"
                        she demanded. His eyes gleamed merrily.
                    "He meant to alarm your highness."
                    "Didn't he give you a talking to?"
                    "He coached me in ethics."
                    "You are evading the question, sir. Was he mean and nasty to you?
                        Tell me; I want to know."
                    "Well, he said things that a soldier must endure. A civilian or an
                        equal might have run him through for it, your highness." A flush
                        rose to his cheeks and his lips quivered ever so slightly. But Beverly saw
                        and understood. Her heart was in her eyes.
                    
                    "That settles it," she said rigidly. "You are not
                        to report to him at nine to-morrow."
                    "But he will have me shot, your highness," said he
                        gladly.
                    "He will do nothing of the kind. You are my guard," and her
                        eyes were gleaming dangerously. Then she rejoined the group, the members of
                        which had been watching her curiously. "Count Marlanx,"
                        she said, with entrancing dimples, "will you report to me at nine
                        to-morrow morning?"
                    "I have an appointment," he said slowly, but with
                        understanding.
                    "But you will break it, I am sure," she asserted
                        confidently. "I want to give you a lesson in --- in lawn
                        tennis."
                    Later on, when the victoria was well away from the fort, Dagmar took her
                        companion to task for holding in public friendly discourse with a member of
                        the guard, whoever he might be.
                    "It is altogether contrary to custom, and ---" but Beverly
                        put her hand over the critical lips and smiled like a guilty child.
                    "Now, don't scold," she pleaded, and the countess
                        could go no further.
                    The following morning Count Marlanx reported at nine o'clock with
                        much better grace than he had suspected himself capable of exercising. What
                        she taught him of tennis on the royal courts, in the presence of an amused
                        audience, was as nothing to what he learned of strategy as it can be
                        practiced by a whimsical girl. Almost before he knew it she  had won exemption for Baldos, that being the stake
                        for the first set of singles. To his credit, the count was game. He took the
                        wager, knowing that he, in his ignorance, could not win from the blithe
                        young expert in petticoats. Then he offered to wager the brass candlestick
                        against her bracelet. She considered for a moment and then, in a spirit of
                        enthusiasm, accepted the proposition. After all, she coveted the
                        candlestick. Half an hour later an orderly was riding to the fort with
                        instructions to return at once with Miss Calhoun's candlestick. It
                        is on record that they were "love" sets, which goes to
                        prove that Beverly took no chances.
                    Count Marlanx, puffing and perspiring, his joints dismayed and his brain
                        confused, rode away at noon with Baron Dangloss. Beverly, quite happy in her
                        complete victory, enjoyed a nap of profound sweetness and then was ready for
                        her walk with the princess. They were strolling leisurely about the
                        beautiful grounds, safe in the shade of the trees from the heat of the July
                        sun, when Baron Dangloss approached.
                    "Your royal highness," he began, with his fierce smile,
                        "may I beg a moment's audience?"
                    "It has to do with Baldos, I'll take oath," said
                        Beverly, with conviction.
                    "Yes, with your guard. Yesterday he visited the fortress. He went in
                        an official capacity, it is true, but he was privileged to study the secrets
                        of our defense with alarming freedom. It would not surprise me to find that
                        this stranger has learned everything there is to know about the
                        fort." His listeners were  silent.
                        The smiles left their faces. "I am not saying that he would betray
                        us ----"
                    "No, no!" protested Beverly.
                    "---- but he is in a position to give the most valuable information
                        to an enemy. An officer has just informed me that Baldos missed not a detail
                        in regard to the armament, or the location of vital spots in the
                        construction of the fortress."
                    "But he wouldn't be so base as to use his knowledge to our
                        undoing," cried Yetive seriously.
                    "We only know that he is not one of us. It is not beyond reason that
                        his allegiance is to another power, Dawsbergen, for instance. Count Marlanx
                        is not at all in sympathy with him, you are aware. He is convinced that
                        Baldos is a man of consequence, possibly one of our bitterest enemies, and
                        he hates him. For my own part, I may say that I like the man. I believe he
                        is to be trusted, but if he be an agent of Volga or Gabriel, his opportunity
                        has come. He in a position to make accurate maps of the fort and of all our
                        masked fortifications along the city walls." Beyond a doubt, the
                        baron was worried.
                    "Neither am I one of you," said Beverly stoutly.
                        "Why shouldn't I prove to be a traitress?"
                    "You have no quarrel with us, Miss Calhoun," said
                        Dangloss.
                    "If anything happens, then, I am to be blamed for it," she
                        cried in deep distress. "I brought him to Edelweiss, and I believe
                        in him."
                    "For his own sake, your highness, and Miss Calhoun, I suggest that
                        no opportunity should be given  him to
                        communicate with the outside world. We cannot accuse him, of course, but we
                        can protect him. I come to ask your permission to have him
                        detailed for duty only in places where no suspicion can attach to any of his
                        actions."
                    "You mean inside the city walls?" asked Yetive.
                    "Yes, your highness, and as far as possible from the
                        fortress."
                    "I think it is a wise precaution. Don't be angry,
                        Beverly," the princess said gently. "It is for his own
                        sake, you see. I am acting on the presumption that he is wholly innocent of
                        any desire to betray us."
                    "It would be easy for someone high in position to accuse and convict
                        him," said Dangloss meaningly.
                    "And it would be just like someone, too," agreed Beverly,
                        her thoughts, with the others', going toward none but one man
                        "high in power."
                    Later in the day she called Baldos to her side as they were riding in the
                        castle avenue. She was determined to try a little experiment of her own.
                    "Baldos, what do you think of the fortress?" she asked.
                    "I could overthrow it after half an hour's bombardment,
                        your highness," he answered, without thinking. She started
                        violently.
                    "Is it possible? Are there so many weak points?" she went
                        on, catching her breath.
                    "There are three vital points of weakness, your highness. The
                        magazine can be reached from the outside if one knows the lay of the land;
                        the parade-ground exposes the ammunition building to certain  disadvantages, and the big guns could be silenced in
                        an hour if an enemy had the sense first to bombard from the elevation
                        northeast of the city."
                    "Good heavens!" gasped poor Beverly. "Have you
                        studied all this out?"
                    "I was once a real soldier, your
                        highness," he said, simply. "It was impossible for me not
                        to see the defects in your fort."
                    "You --- you haven't told anyone of this, have
                        fou?" she cried, white-faced and anxious.
                    "No one but your highness. You do not employ me as a tale-bearer, I
                        trust."
                    "I did not mean to question your honor," she said.
                        "Would you mind going before the heads of the war department and
                        tell them just what you have told me? I mean about the weak
                        spots."
                    "If it is your command, your highness," he said quietly,
                        but he was surprised.
                    "You may expect to be summoned then, so hold yourself in readiness.
                        And, Baldos ----"
                    "Yes, your highness?"
                    "You need say nothing to them of our having talked the matter over
                        beforehand --- unless they pin you down to it, you know."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV
                    THE TESTING OF BALDOS
                    A FEW hours later, all was dark and silent within the castle. On the stone
                        walks below, the steady tread of sentinels rose on the still air; in the
                        hallways the trusted guardsmen glided about like spectres or stood like
                        statues, An hour before the great edifice had been bright and full of
                        animation; now it slumbered.
                    It was two o'clock. The breath of roses scent the air, the gurgle of
                        fountains was the only music that touched the ear. Beverly Calhoun,
                        dismissing Aunt Fanny, stepped from her window out upon the great stone
                        balcony. A rich oriental dressing-gown, loose and comfortable, was her
                        costume. Something told her that sleep would be a long time coming, and an
                        hour in the warm, delightful atmosphere of the night was more attractive
                        than the close, sleepless silence of her own room. Every window along
                        balcony was dark, proving that the entire household had retired to rest.
                    She was troubled. The fear had entered her head that the castle folk were
                        regretting the advent of  Baldos, that
                        everyone was questioning the wisdom of his being in the position he occupied
                        through her devices. Her talk with him did much to upset her tranquillity.
                        That he knew so much of the fortress bore out the subtle suspicions of
                        Dangloss and perhaps others. She was troubled, not that she doubted pm, but
                        that if anything went wrong an accusation against him, however unjust, would
                        be difficult to overcome. And she would be to blame, in a large degree.
                    For many minutes she sat in the dark shadow of a great pillar, her elbows
                        upon the cool balustrade, staring dreamily into the star-studded vault
                        above. Far away in the air she could see the tiny yellow lights of the
                        monastery, lonely sentinel on the mountain top. From the heights near that
                        abode of peace and penitence an enemy could destroy the fortress to the
                        south. Had not Baldos told her so? One big gun could do the work if it could
                        be taken to that altitude. Baldos could draw a perfect map of the fortress.
                        He could tell precisely where the shells should fall. And already the chief
                        men in Edelweiss were wondering who he was and to what end he might utilize
                        his knowledge. They were watching him, they were warning her.
                    For the first time since she came to the castle, she felt a sense of
                        loneliness, a certain unhappiness. She could not shake off the feeling that
                        she was, after all, alone in her belief in Baldos. Her heart told her that
                        the tall, straightforward fellow she had met in the hills was as honest as
                        the day. She was deceiv-  ing him, she
                        realized, but he was misleading no one. Off in a distant part of the castle
                        ground she could see the long square shadow that marked the location of the
                        barracks and messroom. There he was sleeping, confidently believing in her
                        and her power to save him from all harm. Something in her soul cried out to
                        him that she would be staunch and true, and that he might sleep without a
                        tremor of apprehensiveness.
                    Suddenly she smiled nervously and drew back into the shadow of the pillar. It
                        occurred to her that he might be looking across the moon-lit park, looking
                        directly at her through all that shadowy distantance. She was conscious of a
                        strange glow in her cheeks and a quickening of the blood as she pulled the
                        folds her gown across her bare throat.
                    "Not the moon, nor the stars, nor the light in St.
                        Valentine's, but the black thing away off there on the
                        earth," said a soft voice behind her, and Beverly started as if the
                        supernatural had approached her. She turned to face the princess, who stood
                        almost at her side.
                    "Yetive! How did you get here?"
                    "That is what you are looking at, dear," went on Yetive, as
                        if completing her charge. "Why are you not in bed?"
                    "And you? I thought you were sound asleep long ago,"
                        murmured Beverly, abominating the guilty feeling that came over her. The
                        princess threw he arm about Beverly's shoulder.
                    "I have been watching you for half an hour,"  she said gently. "Can't two look at
                        the moon and stars as well as one? Isn't it my grim old castle? Let
                        us sit here together, dear, and dream awhile."
                    "You dear Yetive," and Beverly drew her down beside her on
                        the cushions. "But, listen: I want you to get something out of your
                        head. I was not looking at anything in
                        particular."
                    "Beverly, I believe you were thinking of Baldos," said the
                        other, her fingers straying fondly across the girl's soft hair.
                    "Ridiculous!" said Beverly, conscious for the first time
                        that he was seldom out of her thoughts. The realization came like a blow,
                        and her eyes grew very wide out there in the darkness.
                    "And you are troubled on his account. I know it, dear. You
                        ----"
                    "Well, Yetive, why shouldn't I be worried? I brought him
                        here against his will," protested Beverly. "If anything
                        should happen to him ----" she shuddered involuntarily.
                    "Don't be afraid, Beverly. I have as much confidence in him
                        as you have. His eyes are true. Grenfall believes in him, too, and so does
                        Mr. Anguish. Gren says he would swear by him, no matter who
                        is."
                    "But the others?" Beverly whispered.
                    "Baron Dangloss is his friend, and so is Quinnox. They know a man. The count is different."
                    "I loathe that old wretch!"
                    "Hush! He has not wronged you in any way."
                    "But he has been unfair and mean to
                        Baldos."
                    
                    "It is a soldier's lot, my dear."
                    "But he may be Prince Dantan or Frederic or the other one,
                        don't you know," argued Beverly, clenching her hands
                        firmly.
                    "In that event, he would be an honorable soldier and we have nothing
                        to fear in him. Neither of then is our enemy. It is the possibility that he
                        is not one of them that makes his presence here look
                        dangerous."
                    "I don't want to talk about him," said Beverly but
                        she was disappointed when the princess obligingly changed the subject.
                    Baldos was not surprised, scarcely more than interested, when a day or two
                        later, he was summoned to appear before the board of strategy. If anyone had
                        told him, however, that on a recent night a pair of dreamy gray eyes had
                        tried to find his window in the great black shadow, he might have jumped in
                        amazement and --- delight. For at that very hour he was looking off toward
                        the castle, and his thoughts were of the girl who drew back into the shadow
                        of the pillar.
                    The Graustark ministry had received news from the southern frontier.
                        Messengers came in with the alarming and significant report that Dawsbergen
                        was strengthening her fortifications in the passes and moving war supplies
                        northward. It meant that Gabriel and his people expected a fight and were
                        preparing for it. Count Halfont hastily called the ministers together, and
                        Lorry and the princess took part in their deliberations. General Marlanx
                        represented the army; and it was he who finally asked to have Baldos brought
                        before the council. The Iron  Count plainly
                        intimated that the new guard was in a position to transmit valuable
                        information to the enemy. Colonel Quinnox sent for him, and Baldos was soon
                        standing in the presence of Yetive and her advisers. He looked about him
                        with a singular smile. The one whom he was supposed to regard as the
                        princess was not in the council chamber. Lorry opened the examination at the
                        request of Count Halfont, the premier. Baldos quietly answered the questions
                        concerning his present position, his age, his term of enlistment, and his
                        interpretations of the obligations required of him.
                    "Ask him who he really is," suggested the Iron Count
                        sarcastically.
                    "We can expect but one answer to that question," said
                        Lorry, "and that is the one which he chooses to give."
                    "My name is Baldos --- Paul Baldos," said the guard, but he
                        said it in such a way that no one could mistake his appreciation of the fact
                        that he could give one name as well as another and still serve his own
                        purposes.
                    "That is lie number one," observed Marlanx loudly. Every
                        eye was turned upon Baldos, but his face did not lose its half-mocking
                        expression of serenity.
                    "Proceed with the examination, Mr. Lorry," said Count
                        Halfont, interpreting a quick glance from Yetive.
                    "Are you willing to answer any and all questions may ask in
                        connection with your observations since  you
                        became a member of the castle guard?" asked Lorry.
                    "I am."
                    "Did you take especial care to study the interior of the fortress
                        when you were there several days ago?"
                    "I did."
                    "Have you discussed your observations with any one since that
                        time?"
                    "I have."
                    "With whom?"
                    "With her highness, the princess," said Baldos, without a
                        quiver. There was a moment's silence, and furtive looks were cast
                        in the direction of Yetive, whose face was a study. Almost instantaneously
                        the entire body of listeners understood that he referred to Beverly Calhoun.
                        Baldos felt that he had been summoned before the board at the instigation of
                        his fair protectress.
                    "And your impressions have gone no further?"
                    "They have not, sir. It was most confidential."
                    "Could you accurately reproduce the plans of fortress?"
                    "I think so. It would be very simple."
                    "Have you studied engineering?"
                    "Yes."
                    "And you could scientifically enumerate the defects in the
                        construction of the fort?"
                    "It would not be very difficult, sir."
                    "It has come to our ears that you consider the for-  ess weak in several particulars. Have you so stated
                        at any time?"
                    "I told the princess that the fortress is deplorably weak. In fact,
                        I think I mentioned that it could be taken with ease." He was not
                        looking at Count Marlanx, but he knew that the old man's eyes were
                        flaming. Then he proceeded to tell the board how he old overcome the
                        fortress, elaborating on his remarks to Beverly. The ministers listened in
                        wonder to the words of this calm, indifferent young man.
                    "Will you oblige us by making a rough draft of fort's
                        interior?" asked Lorry, after a solenn pause. Baldos took the paper
                        and in remarkably quick time drew the exact lay of the fortress. The sketch
                        went the rounds and apprehensive looks were exchanged by the ministers.
                    "It is accurate, by Jove," exclaimed Lorry. "I
                        doubt if a dweller in the fort could do better. You must have been very
                        observing."
                    "And very much interested," snarled Marlanx.
                    "Only so far as I imagined my observations might be of benefit to
                        someone else," said Baldos coolly. Again the silence was like
                        death.
                    "Do you know what you are saying, Baldos?" asked Lorry,
                        after a moment.
                    'Certainly, Mr. Lorry. It is the duty of any servant of her highness
                        to give her all that he has in him. If my observations can be of help to
                        her, I feel in duty bound to make the best of them for her sake, not for my
                        own."
                    "Perhaps you can suggest modifications in the  fort," snarled Marlanx. "Why
                        don't you do it, sir, and let us have the benefit of your superior
                        intelligence? No, gentlemen, all this prating of loyalty need not deceive
                        us," he cried, springing to his feet "The fellow is
                        nothing more nor less than an infernal spy --- and the Tower is the place
                        for him! He ca do no harm there."
                    "If it were my intention to do harm, gentlemen do you imagine that I
                        should withhold my information for days?" asked Baldos.
                        "If I am a spy you may rest assured that Count Marlanx's
                        kindness should not have been so long disregarded. A spy does not believe in
                        delays."
                    "My --- my kindnesses?" cried Marlanx. "What do
                        you mean, sir?"
                    "I mean this, Count Marlanx," said Baldos, looking steadily
                        into the eyes of the head of the army. "It was kind and considerate
                        of you to admit me to the fortress --- no matter in what capacity,
                        especially at a critical time like this. You did not me, you had no way of
                        telling whether my intentions were honest or otherwise, and yet I was
                        permitted to go through the fort from end to end. No spy could wish for
                        greater generosity than that."
                    An almost imperceptible smile went round the table, and every listener but
                        one breathed more freely. The candor and boldness of the guard won the
                        respect and confidence of all except Marlanx. The Iron Count was white with
                        anger. He took the examination out of Lorry's hands, and plied the
                        stranger with insulting questions, each calm answer making  more furious than before. At last, in sheer
                        impotence, he relapsed into silence, waving his hand to Lorry to indicate
                        that he might resume.
                    "You will understand, Baldos, that we have some cause for
                        apprehension," said Lorry, immensely gratified by the outcome of
                        the tilt. "You are a stranger; and, whether you admit it or not,
                        there is reason to believe that you are not what you represent yourself to
                        be."
                    "I am a humble guard at present, sir, and a loyal one. My life is
                        yours should I prove otherwise."
                    Yetive whispered something in Lorry's ear at this juncture. She was
                        visibly pleased and excited. He looked doubtful for an instant, and then
                        apparently followed her suggestion, regardless of consequences.
                    "Would you be willing to utilize your knowledge as an engineer by
                        suggesting means to strengthen the fortress?" The others stared in
                        fresh amazement. Marlanx went as white as death.
                    "Never!" he blurted out hoarsely.
                    "I will do anything the princess commands me do," said
                        Baldos easily.
                    "You mean that you serve her only?"
                    "I serve her first, sir. If she were here she could command me to
                        die, and there would be an end to Baldos," and he smiled as he said
                        it. The real princess looked at him with a new, eager expression, as if
                        something had just become clear to her. There was chorus of coughs and a
                        round of sly looks.
                    "She could hardly ask you to die," said Yetive, addressing
                        him for the first time.
                    
                    "A princess is like April weather, madam," said Baldos,
                        with rare humor, and the laugh was general. Yetive resolved to talk
                        privately with this excellent wit before the hour was over. She was
                        confident that he knew her to be the princess.
                    "I would like to ask the fellow another question," said
                        Marlanx, fingering his sword-hilt nervously. "You say you serve the
                        princess. Do you mean by that that you imagine your duties as a soldier to
                        comprise dancing polite attendance within the security of these
                        walls?"
                    "I believe I enlisted as a member of the castle guard, sir. The duty
                        of the guard is to protect the person of the ruler of Graustark, and to do
                        that to the death."
                    "It is my belief that you are a spy. You can show evidence of good
                        faith by enlisting to fight against Dawsbergen and by shooting to
                        kill," said the count with a sinister gleam in his eye.
                    "And if I decline to serve in any other capacity than the one I now
                        ----"
                    "Then I shall brand you as a spy and a coward."
                    "You have already called me a spy, your excellency. It will not make
                        it true, let me add, if you call me a coward. I refuse to take up arms
                        against either Dawsbergen or Axphain."
                    The remark created a profound sensation.
                    "Then you are employed by both instead of one!" shouted the
                        Iron Count gleefully.
                    "I am employed as a guard for her royal highness," said
                        Baldos, with a square glance at Yetive, "and not as a fighter in
                        the ranks. I will fight till death for her, but not for
                        Graustark."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI
                    ON THE WAY TO ST. VALENTINE'S
                    BY Jove, I like that fellow's coolness," said Lorry to
                        Harry Anguish, after the meeting. "He's after my own
                        heart. Why, he treats us as though we were the suppliants, he the
                        alms-giver. He is playing a game, I'll admit, but he does it with
                        an assurance that delights me."
                    "He is right about that darned old fort," said Anguish.
                        "His knowledge of such things proves conclusively that he is no
                        ordinary person."
                    "Yetive had a bit of a talk with him just now," said Lorry,
                        with a reflective smile. "She asked him point blank if he knew who
                        she was. He did not hesitate a second. 'I remember seeing you in
                        the audience chamber recently.' That was a facer for Yetive.
                        'I assure you that it was no fault of mine that you saw
                        me,' she replied. 'Then it must have been your friend who
                        rustled the curtains?' said the confounded bluffer. Yetive
                        couldn't keep a straight face. She laughed and then he laughed.
                        'Some day you may learn more about me,' she said to him.
                        'I sincerely trust that I may, madam,' said he, and  I'll bet my hat he was enjoying it
                        better than either of us. Of course, he knows Yetive is the princess.
                        It's his intention to serve Beverly Calhoun, and he
                        couldn't do it if he were to confess that he knows the truth.
                        He's no fool."
                    Baldos was not long in preparing plans for the changes in the fortress. They
                        embodied a temporary readjustment of the armament and alterations in the
                        ammunition house. The gate leading to the river was closed and the refuse
                        from the fort was taken to the barges by way of the main entrance. There
                        were other changes suggested for immediate consideration, and then there was
                        a general plan for the modernizing of the fortress at some more convenient
                        time. Baldos laconically observed that the equipment was years behind the
                        times. To the amazement of the officials, he was able to talk intelligently
                        of forts in all parts of the world, revealing a wide and thorough knowledge
                        and extensive inspection. He had seen American as well as European
                        fortifications. The Graustark engineers went to work at once to perfect the
                        simple changes he advised, leaving no stone unturned to strengthen the place
                        before an attack could be made.
                    Two, three weeks went by and the new guard was becoming an old story to the
                        castle and army folk. He rode with Beverly every fair day and he looked at
                        her window by night from afar off in the sombre barracks. She could not
                        dissipate the feeling that he knew her to be other than the princess,
                        although he betrayed himself by no word or sign. She was en-  joying the fun of it too intensely to expose it to
                        the risk of destruction by revealing her true identity to him. Logically,
                        that would mean the end of everything. No doubt he felt the same and kept
                        his counsel. But the game could not last forever, that was certain. A month
                        or two more, and Beverly would have to think of the return to
                        Washington.
                    His courage, his cool impudence, his subtle wit charmed her more than she
                        could express. Now she was beginning to study him from a standpoint
                        peculiarly and selfishly her own. Where recently she had sung his praises to
                        Yetive and others, she now was strangely reticent. She was to understand
                        another day why this change had come over her. Stories of his cleverness
                        came to her ears from Lorry and Anguish and even from Dangloss. She was
                        proud, vastly proud of him in these days. The Iron Count alone discredited
                        the ability and the conscientiousness if the "mountebank,"
                        as he named the man who had put his nose out of joint. Beverly, seeing much
                        of Marlanx, made the mistake of chiding him frankly and gaily about this
                        aversion. She even argued the guard's case before the head of the
                        army, imprudently pointing out many of his superior qualities in advocating
                        his cause. The count was learning forbearance in his old age. He saw the
                        wisdom of procrastination. Baldos was in favor, but some day there would
                        come a time for his undoing.
                    In the barracks he was acquiring fame. Reports went forth with unbiased
                        freedom. He established himself as the best swordsman in the service, as
                        well as the most efficient marksman. With the
                        foils and sabers he easily vanquished the foremost fencers in high and low
                        circles. He could ride like a Cossack or like an American cowboy. Of them
                        all, his warmest admirer was Haddan, the man set to watch him for the secret
                        service. It may be timely to state that Haddan watched in vain.
                    The princess, humoring her own fancy as well as Beverly's foibles,
                        took to riding with her high-spirited young guest on many a little jaunt to
                        the hills She usually rode with Lorry or Anguish, cheerfully assuming the
                        subdued position befitting a lady-in-waiting apparently restored to favor on
                        probation. She enjoyed Beverly's unique position. Is order to
                        maintain her attitude as princess, the fair young deceiver was obliged to
                        pose in the extremely delectable attitude of being Lorry's
                        wife.
                    "How can you expect the paragon to make love to you, dear, if he
                        thinks you are another man't wife?" Yetive asked, her blue
                        eyes beaming with the fun of it all.
                    "Pooh!" sniffed Beverly. "You have only to consult
                        history to find the excuse. It's the dear old habit of men to make
                        love to queens and get beheaded for it. Besides, he is not expected to make
                        love to me. How in the world did you get that into your head?"
                    On a day soon after the return of Lorry and Anguish from a trip to the
                        frontier, Beverly expressed a desire to visit the monastery of St.
                        Valentine, high on the mountain top. It was a long ride over the  circuitous route by which the steep incline was
                        avoided and it was necessary for the party to make an early start. Yetive
                        rode with Harry Anguish and his wife the countess, while Beverly's
                        companion was the gallant Colonel Quinnox. Baldos, relegated to the
                        background, brought up the rear with Haddan.
                    For a week or more Beverly had been behaving toward Baldos in the most
                        cavalier fashion. Her friends had been teasing her; and, to her own intense
                        amazement, she resented it. The fact that she felt the sting of their sly
                        taunts was sufficient to arouse in her the distressing conviction that he
                        had become important enough to prove embarrassing. While confessing to
                        herself that it was a bit treacherous and weak, she proceeded to ignore
                        Baldos with astonishing persistency. Apart from the teasing, it seemed to
                        her of late that he was growing a shade too confident.
                    He occasionally forgot his differential air, and relaxed into a very pleasing
                        but highly reprehensible state of friendliness. A touch of the old
                        jauntiness cropped out here and there, a tinge of the old irony marred his
                        otherwise perfect mien as a soldier. His laugh was freer, his eyes less
                        under subjugation, his entire personality more arrogant. It was time,
                        thought she resentfully, that his temerity should meet some sort of
                        check.
                    And, moreover, she had dreamed of him two nights in succession.
                    How well her plan succeeded may best be illustrated by saying that she now
                        was in a most uncom-  fortable frame of mind.
                        Baldos refused to be properly depressed by his misfortune. He retired to the
                        oblivion she provided and seemed disagreeably content. Apparently, it made
                        very little difference to him whether he was in or out of favor. Beverly was
                        in high dudgeon and low spirits.
                    The party rode forth at an early hour in the morning. It was hot in the city,
                        but it looked cold and bleak on the heights. Comfortable wraps were taken
                        along, and provision was made for luncheon at an inn half way up the slope.
                        Quinnox regaled Beverly with stories in which Grenfall Lorry was the hero
                        and Yetive the heroine. He told her of the days when Lorry, a fugitive with
                        a price upon his head, charged with the assassination of Prince Lorenz, then
                        betrothed to the princess, lay hidden in the monastery while
                        Yetive's own soldiers hunted high and low for him. The narrator
                        dwelt glowingly upon the trip from the monastery to the city walls one dark
                        night when Lorry came down to surrender himself in order to shield the woman
                        he loved, and Quinnox himself piloted him through the underground passage
                        into the very heart of the castle. Then came the exciting scene in which
                        Lorry presented himself as prisoner, with the denouement that saved the
                        princess and won for the gallant American the desire of his heart.
                    "What a brave fellow he was!" cried Beverly, who never
                        tired of hearing the romantic story.
                    "Ah, he was wonderful, Miss Calhoun. I fought him to keep him from
                        surrendering. He beat me,  and I was virtually
                        his prisoner when we appeared before the tribunal."
                    "It's no wonder she loved him and --- married
                        him."
                    "He deserved the best that life could give, Miss
                        Calhoun."
                    "You had better not call me Miss Calhoun, Colonel Quinnox,"
                        said she, looking back apprehensively. "I am a highness once in a
                        while, don't you know?"
                    "I implore your highness's pardon!" said he
                        gaily.
                    The riders ahead had come to a standstill and were pointing off into the pass
                        to their right. They were eight or ten miles from the city gates and more
                        than half way up the winding road that ended at the monastery gates. Beverly
                        and Quinnox came up with them and found all eyes centered on a small company
                        of men encamped in the rocky defile a hundred yards from the main road.
                    It needed but a glance to tell her who comprised unusual company. The very
                        raggedness of their garments, the unforgetable disregard for consequences,
                        the impudent ease with which they faced poverty and wealth alike, belonged
                        to but one set of men --- the vagabonds of the Hawk and Raven. Beverly went
                        a shade whiter; her interest in everything flagged, and she was lost in
                        bewilderment. What freak of fortune had sent these men out of the fastnesses
                        into this dangerously open place?
                    She recognized the ascetic Ravone, with his student's face and
                        beggar's garb. Old Franz was there, 
                        and so were others whose faces and heterogeneous garments had become so
                        familiar to her in another day. The tall leader with the red feather, the
                        rakish hat and the black patch alone was missing from the picture.
                    "It's the strangest-looking crew I've ever
                        seen," said Anguish. "They look like
                        pirates."
                    "Or gypsies," suggested Yetive. "Who are they,
                        Colonel Quinnox? What are they doing here?" Quinnox was surveying
                        the vagabonds with a critical, suspicious eye.
                    "They are not robbers or they would be off like rabbits,"
                        he said reflectively. "Your highness, there are many roving bands
                        in the hills, but I confess that these men are unlike any I have heard about
                        With your permission, I will ride down and question them."
                    "Do, Quinnox. I am most curious."
                    Beverly sat very still and tense. She was afraid to look at Baldos, who rode
                        up as Quinnox started into the narrow defile, calling to the escort to
                        follow. The keen eyes of the guard caught the situation at once. Miss
                        Calhoun shot a quick glance at him as he rode up beside her. His face was
                        passive, but she could see his hand clench the bridle-rein, and there was an
                        air of restraint in his whole bearing.
                    "Remember your promise," he whispered hoarsely.
                        "No harm must come to them." Then he was off into the
                        defile. Anguish was not to be left behind. He followed, and then Beverly,
                        more venturesome and vastly more interested than the others, rode recklessly
                             after. Quinnox was questioning the
                        laconic Ravone when she drew rein. The vagabonds seemed to evince but little
                        interest in the proceedings. They stood away in disdainful aloofness. No
                        sign of recognition passed between them and Baldos.
                    In broken, jerky sentences, Ravone explained to the colonel that they were a
                        party of actors on their way to Edelweiss, but that they had been advised to
                        give the place a wide berth. Now they were making the best of a hard journey
                        to Serros, where they expected but little better success. He produced
                        certain papers of identification which Quinnox examined and approved, much
                        to Beverly's secret amazement. The princess and the colonel
                        exchanged glances and afterwards a few words in subdued tones. Yetive looked
                        furtively at Beverly and then at Baldos as if to enquire whether these men
                        were the goat-hunters she had come to know by word of mouth. The two faces
                        were hopelessly non-committal.
                    Suddenly Baldos's horse reared and began to plunge as if in terror,
                        so that the rider kept his seat only by means of adept horsemanship. Ravone
                        leaped forward and at the risk of injury clutched the plunging steed by the
                        bit. Together they partially subdued the animal and Baldos swung to the
                        ground Ravone's side. Miss Calhoun's horse in the
                        mean-time had caught the fever. He pranced off to the roadside before she
                        could get him under control.
                    She was thus in a position to observe the two men on the ground. Shielded
                        from view by the body of horse, they were able to put the finishing touches
                             to the trick Baldos had cleverly worked.
                        Beverly distinctly saw the guard and the beggar exchange bits of paper, with
                        glances that meant more than the words they were unable to utter.
                    Baldos pressed into Ravone's hand a note of some bulk and received
                        in exchange a mere slip of paper. The papers disappeared as if by magic, and
                        the guard was remounting his horse before he saw that the act had been
                        detected. The expression of pain and deaspair in Beverly's face
                        sent a cold chill over him from head to foot.
                    She turned sick with apprehension. Her faith had received a stunning blow.
                        Mutely she watched the vagabonds withdraw in peace, free to go where the
                        pleased. The excursionists turned to the main road. Baldos fell back to his
                        accustomed place, his imploring look wasted. She was strangely, inexplicably
                        depressed for the rest of the day.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII
                    A NOTE TRANSLATED
                    SHE was torn by conflicting emotions. That the two friends had
                        surreptitiously exchanged messages, doubtless by an arrangement perfected
                        since he had entered the service --- possibly within the week --- could not
                        be disputed. When and how had they planned the accidental meeting? What had
                        been their method of communication? And, above all, what were the contents
                        of the messages exchanged? Were they of a purely personal nature, or did
                        they comprehend injury to the principality of Graustark? Beverly could not,
                        in her heart, feel that Baldos was doing anything inimical to the country he
                        served, and yet her duty and loyalty to Yetive made it imperative that the
                        transaction should be reported at once. A word to Quinnox and Ravone would
                        be seized and searched for the mysterious paper. This, however, looked
                        utterly unreasonable, for the vagabonds were armed and in force, while
                        Yetive was accompanied by but three men who could be depended upon. Baldos,
                        under the conditions, was not to be reckoned upon for support. On the other
                        hand, if he meant no harm,  it would be cruel,
                        even fatal, to expose him to this charge of duplicity. And while she turned
                        these troublesome alternatives over in her mind, the opportunity to act was
                        lost. Ravone and his men were gone, and the harm, if any was intended, was
                        done.
                    From time to time she glanced back at the guard. His face was imperturbable,
                        even sphinx-like in its steadiness. She decided to hold him personally to
                        account. At the earliest available moment she would demand an explanation of
                        his conduct, threatening him if necessary. If he proved obdurate there was
                        but one course left open to her. She would deliver him up to the justice he
                        had outraged. Hour after hour went by, and Beverly suffered more than she
                        could have told. The damage was done, and the chance to undo it was slipping
                        farther and farther out of her grasp. She began to look upon herself as the
                        vilest of traitors. There was no silver among the clouds that marred her
                        thoughts that afternoon.
                    It was late in the day when the party returned to the castle, tired out.
                        Beverly was the only one who had no longing to seek repose after the
                        fatiguing trip. Her mind was full of unrest. It was necessary to question
                        Baldos at once. There could be no peace for her until she learned the truth
                        from him. The strain became so great that at last she sent word for him to
                        attend her in the park. He was to accompany the men who carried the sedan
                        chair in which she had learned to sit with a delightful feeling of being in
                        the eighteenth century.
                    In a far corner of the grounds, now gray in the  early dusk, Beverly bade the bearers to set down her chair and leave her
                        in quiet for a few minutes. The two men withdrew to a respectful distance,
                        where-upon she called Baldos to her side. Her face was flushed with
                        anxiety.
                    "You must tell me the truth about that transaction with
                        Ravone," she said, coming straight to the point.
                    "I was expecting this, your highness," said he quietly. The
                        shadows of night were falling, but she could distinguish the look of anxiety
                        in his dark eyes.
                    "Well?" she insisted impatiently.
                    "You saw the notes exchanged?"
                    "Yes, yes, and I command you to tell me what they contained. It was
                        the most daring thing I --- "
                    "You highness, I cannot tell you what passed between us. It would be
                        treacherous," he said firmly. Beverly gasped in sheer
                        amazement.
                    "Treacherous? Good heaven, sir, to whom do you owe allegiance --- to
                        me or to Ravone and that band of tramps?" she cried, with eyes
                        afire.
                    "To both, your highness," he answered so fairly that she
                        was for the moment abashed. "I am loyal o you --- loyal to the
                        heart's core, and yet I am loyal to that unhappy band of tramps, as
                        you choose to call them. They are my friends. You are only my
                        sovereign."
                    "And you won't tell me what passed between you?"
                        she said, angered by this epigrammatic remark.
                    "I cannot and be true to myself."
                    "Oh, you are a glorious soldier," she exclaimed, with
                        fierce sarcasm in her voice. "You speak of  being true! I surprise you in the very act of
                        ----"
                    "Stay, your highness!" he said coldly. "You are;
                        about to call me a spy and a traitor. Spare me, I implore you, that
                        humiliation. I Ihave sworn to serve you faithfully and loyally. I have not
                        deceived you, and I shall not. Paul Baldos has wronged no man, no woman.
                        What passed between Ravone and myself concerns us only. It had nothing to do
                        with the affairs of Graustark."
                    "Of course you would say that. You wouldn't be fool enough
                        to tell the truth," cried she hotly. "I am the fool! I
                        have trusted you and if anything goes wrong I alone am to blame for exposing
                        poor Graustark to danger. Oh, why didn't I cry out this
                        afternoon?"
                    "I knew you would not," he said, with cool unconcern.
                    "Insolence! What do you mean by that?" she cried in
                        confusion.
                    "In your heart you knew I was doing no wrong. You shielded me then
                        as you have shielded me from the beginning."
                    "I don't see why I sit here and let you talk to me like
                        that," she said, feeling the symptoms of collapse. "You
                        have not been fair with me, Baldos. You are laughing at me now and calling
                        me a witless little fool. You --- you did something to-day tha shakes my
                        faith to the very bottom. I never can trust you again. Good heaven, I hate
                        to confess to --- to everyone that you are not honest."
                    "Your highness!" he implored, coming close to  the chair and bending over her. "Before God,
                        I am honest with you. Believe me when I say that I have done nothing to
                        injure Graustark. I cannot tell you what it was that passed between Ravone
                        and me, but I swear on my soul that I have not been disloyal to my oath.
                        Won't you trust me? Won't you believe?" His
                        breath was fanning her ear, his voice eager; she could feel the intensity of
                        his eyes.
                    "Oh, I don't --- don't know what to say to
                        you," she murmured. "I have been so wrought up with fear
                        and disappointment. You'll admit that it was very suspicious,
                        won't you?" she cried, almost pleadingly.
                    "Yes, yes," he answered. His hand touched her arm, perhaps
                        unconsciously. She threw back her head to give him a look of rebuke. Their
                        eyes met, and after a moment both were full of pleading. Her lips parted,
                        but the words would not come. She was afterwards more than thankful for
                        this, because his eyes impelled her to give voice to amazing things that
                        suddenly rushed to her head.
                    'I want to believe you," she whispered softly.
                    You must --- you do! I would give you my life. You have it now. It is in your
                        keeping, and with it my honor. Trust me, I beseech you. I have trusted
                        you."
                    "I brought you here ----" she began, defending him
                        involuntarily. "But, Baldos, you forget that I am the
                        princess!" She drew away in sudden shyness, her cheeks rosy once
                        more, her eyes filling with most distressingly unreasonable tears. He did
                        not  move for what seemed hours to her. She
                        heard the sharp catch of his breath and felt the repression that was
                        mastering some unwelcome emotion in him.
                    Lights were springing into existence in all parts of the park. Beverly saw
                        the solitary window in the monastery far away, and her eyes fastened on it
                        as if for sustenance in this crisis of her life --- this moment of surprise
                        --- this moment when she felt him laying hands upon the
                        heart she had not suspected of treason. Twilight was upon them; the sun had
                        set and night was rushing up to lend unfair advantage to the forces against
                        which they were struggling. The orchestra in the castle was playing
                        something soft and tender --- oh, so far away.
                    "I forget that I am a slave, your highness," he said at
                        last, and his voice thrilled her through through. She turned quickly and to
                        her utter dismay found his face and eyes still close to hers, glowing in the
                        darkness.
                    "Those men --- over there," she whispered helplessly.
                        "They are looking at you!"
                    "Now, I thank God eternally," he cried softly.
                        "You do not punish me, you do not rebuke me. God, there is no
                        night!"
                    "You --- you must not talk like that," she cried pulling
                        herself together suddenly. "I cannot permit it, Baldos. You forget
                        who you are, sir."
                    "Ah, yes, your highness," he said, before he stood erect.
                        "I forget that I was a suspected traitor. Now I am guilty of lse majest." Beverly felt herself grow hot with
                        confusion.
                    
                    "What am I to do with you?" she cried in perplexity, her
                        heart beating shamefully. "You swear you are honest, and yet you
                        won't tell me the truth. Now, don't stand like that! You
                        are as straight as a ramrod, and I know your dignity is terribly offended. I
                        may be foolish, but I do believe you intend no harm to Graustark. You cannot be a traitor."
                    "I will some day give my life to repay you for those words, your
                        highness," he said. Her hand was resting on the side of the chair.
                        Something warm touched it, and then it was lifted resistlessly. Hot,
                        passionate lips burned themselves into the white fingers, and a glow went
                        into every fiber of her body.
                    'Oh!" was all she could say. He gently released the hand
                        and threw up his chin resolutely.
                    " I am almost ready to die," he said. She laughed for the
                        first time since they entered the park.
                    "I don't know how to treat you," she said in a
                        helpless flutter. "You know a princess has many trials in
                        life."
                    "Not the least of which is womanhood."
                    "Baldos," she said after a long pause. Something very
                        disagreeable had just rushed into her brain. "Have you been
                        forgetting all this time that the Princess Yetive is the wife of Grenfall
                        Lorry?"
                    "It has never left my mind for an instant. From the bottom of my
                        heart I congratulate him. His wife is an angel as well as a
                        princess."
                    "Well, in the code of morals, is it quite proper to so loyal to another man's wife?" she asked, and  then she trembled. He was supposed to know
                        her as the wife of Grenfall Lorry, and yet he had boldly shown his love for
                        her.
                    "It depends altogether on the other man's wife,"
                        he said, and she looked up quickly. It was too dark to see his face, but
                        something told her to press the point no further. Deep down in her heart she
                        was beginning to rejoice in the belief that he had found her out. If he
                        still believed her to be the real princess, then he was --- but the subject
                        of conversation, at least, had to be changed.
                    "You say your message to Ravone was of a purely personal
                        nature," she said.
                    "Yes, your highness." She did not like the way in which he
                        said "your highness." It sounded as if he meant it.
                    "How did you know that you were to see him to-day?"
                    "We have waited for this opportunity since last week. Franz was in
                        the castle grounds last Thursday."
                    "Good heavens! You don't mean it!"
                    "Yes, your highness. He carried a message to me from Ravone. That is
                        why Ravone and the others waited for me in the hills."
                    "You amaze me!"
                    "I have seen Franz often," he confessed easily.
                        "He is an excellent messenger."
                    "So it would seem. We must keep a lookout for him. He is the
                        go-between for you all, I see."
                    "Did you learn to say 'you all' in America?  he asked. Her heart gave a great leap. There
                        was something so subtle in the query that she was vastly relieved.
                    "Never mind about that, sir. You won't tell me what you
                        said in your note to Ravone."
                    "I cannot."
                    "Well, he gave you one in return. If you are perfectly sincere,
                        Baldos, you will hand that note over to me. It shall go no farther, I swear
                        to you, if, as you vow, it does not jeopardize Graustark. Now, sir, prove
                        your loyalty and your honesty."
                    He hesitated for a long time. Then from an inner pocket he drew forth a bit
                        of paper.
                    "I don't see why it has not been destroyed," he
                        said regretfully. "What a neglectful fool I have
                        been!"
                    "You might have said it had been destroyed," she said,
                        happy because he had not said it.
                    "But that would have been a lie. Read it, your highness, and return
                        it to me. It must be destroyed."
                    "It is too dark to read it here." Without a word he handed
                        the paper to her and called the chair bearers, to whom he gave instructions
                        that brought her speedily beneath one of the park lamps. She afterwards
                        recalled the guilty impulse which forced her to sit on the tell-tale note
                        while the men were carrying her along in the driveway. When it was quite
                        safe she slyly opened the missive. His hand closed over hers, and the note,
                        and he bent close once more.
                    "My only fear is that the test will make it im-  possible for me to kiss your hand again,"
                        said he in a strained voice. She looked up in surprise.
                    "Then it is really something disloyal?"
                    "I have called it a test, your highness," he responded
                        enigmatically.
                    "Well, we'll see," she said, and forthwith turned
                        her eyes to the all-important paper. A quick flush crossed her brow; her
                        eyes blinked hopelessly. The note was written in the Graustark language!
                    "I'll read it later, Baldos. This is no place for me to be
                        reading notes, don't you know? Really, it isn't.
                        I'll give it back to you to-morrow," she was in haste to
                        say.
                    An inscrutable smile came over his face.
                    "Ravone's information is correct, I am now
                        convinced," he said slowly. "Pray, your highness, glance
                        over it now, that I may destroy it at once," he persisted.
                    "The light isn't good."
                    "It seems excellent."
                    "And I never saw such a miserable scrawl as this. He must have
                        written it on horseback and at full gallop."
                    "It is quite legible, your highness."
                    "I really cannot read the stuff. You know his handwriting. Read it
                        to me. I'll trust you to read it carefully."
                    "This is embarrassing, your highness, but I obey, of course, if you
                        command. Here is what Rorone says:
                    'We have fresh proof that she is not the princess, but the  American girl. Be exceedingly careful that
                        she does not lead you into any admissions. The Americans are tricky. Have
                        little to say to her, and guard your tongue well. We are all well and are
                        hoping for the best.'"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVIII
                    CONFESSIONS AND CONCESSIONS
                    BEVERLY was speechless. "Of course, your highness," said
                        Baldos, deep apology in his voice, "Ravone is woefully misinformed.
                        He is honest in his belief, and you should not misjudge his motives. How he
                        could have been so blind as to confound you with that frisky American girl
                        --- but I beg your pardon. She is to be your guest. A thousand pardons, your
                        highness."
                    She had been struck dumb by the wording of the note, but his apparently
                        sincere apology for his friend set her every emotion into play once more.
                        While he was speaking, her wits were forming themselves for conflict. She
                        opened the campaign with a bold attack. "You --- you believe me to
                        be the princess, sure 'nough, don't you?" But
                        with all her bravery, she was not able to look him in the face.
                    " How can you doubt it, your highness? Would I be serving you in the
                        present capacity if I believed you to be anyone else?"
                    "Ravone's warning has not shaken your faith in
                        me?"
                    
                    "It has strengthened it. Nothing could alter the facts in the case.
                        I have not, since we left Ganlook, been in doubt as to the identity of my
                        benefactress."
                    "It seems to me that you are beating around the bush. I'll
                        come straight to the point. How long have you known that I am not the
                        princess of Graustark?"
                    "What!" he exclaimed, drawing back in well-assumed horror.
                        "Do you mean --- are you jesting? I beg of you, do not jest. It is
                        very serious with me." His alarm was so genuine that she was
                        completely deceived.
                    "I am not jesting," she half whispered, turning very cold.
                        "Have you thought all along that I am the princess --- that I am
                        Grenfall Lorry's wife?"
                    "You told me that you were the princess."
                    "But I've never said that I was --- was anyone's
                        wife."
                    There was a piteous appeal in her voice and he was not slow to notice it and
                        rejoice. Then his heart smote him.
                    "But what is to become of me if you are not the princess?"
                        he asked after a long pause. "I can no longer serve you. This is my
                        last day in the castle guard."
                    "You are to go on serving me --- I mean you are to retain your place
                        in the service," she hastened to say. "I shall keep my
                        promise to you." How small and humble she was beginning to feel. It
                        did not seem so entertaining, after all, this pretty deception of hers. Down
                        in his heart, underneath the gal-  lant
                        exterior, what was his opinion of her? Something was stinging her eyes
                        fiercely, and she closed them to keep back the tears of mortification.
                    "Miss Calhoun," he said, his manner changing swiftly,
                        "I have felt from the first that you are not the princess of
                        Graustark. I knew it an hour after I entered Edelweiss.
                        Franz gave me a note at Ganlook, but I did not read it until I was a member
                        of the guard."
                    "You have known it so long?" she cried joyously.
                        "And you have trusted me? You have not hated me for deceiving
                        you?"
                    "I have never ceased to regard you as my sovereign," he
                        said softly. "But just a moment ago you spoke of me as a frisky
                        American girl," she said resentfully.
                    "I have used that term but once, while I have said 'your
                        highness' a thousand times. Knowing that you were Miss Calhoun, I
                        could not have meant either."
                    "I fancy I have no right to criticise you," she humbly
                        admitted. "After all, it does not surprise me that you were not
                        deceived. Only an imbecile could have been fooled all these weeks. Everyone
                        said that you were no fool. It seems ridiculous that' it should
                        have gone to this length, doesn't it?"
                    "Not at all, your highness. I am not ----"
                    "You have the habit, I see," she smiled.
                    "I have several months yet to serve as a member of the guard.
                        Besides, I am under orders to regard  you as
                        the princess. General Marlanx has given me severe instructions in that
                        respect."
                    "You are willing to play the game to the end?" she
                        demanded, more gratified than she should have been.
                    "Assuredly, yes. It is the only safeguard I have. To alter my belief
                        publicly would expose me to --- to----"
                    "To what, Baldos?"
                    "To ridicule, for one thing, and to the generous mercies of Count
                        Marlanx. Besides, it would deprive me of the privilege I mentioned a moment
                        ago --- the right to kiss your hand, to be your slave and to do homage to
                        the only sovereign I can recognize. Surely, you will not subject me to exile
                        from the only joys that life holds for me. You have sought to deceive me,
                        and I have tried to deceive you. Each has found the other out, so we are
                        quits. May we not now combine forces in the very laudible effort to deceive
                        the world? If the world doesn't know that we know, why, the comedy
                        may be long drawn out and the climax be made the more amusing."
                    "I'm afraid there was a touch of your old-time sarcasm in
                        that remark," she said. "Yes, I am willing to continue the
                        comedy. It seems the safest way to protect you --- especially from General
                        Marlanx. No one must ever know, Baldos; it would be absolutely pitiful. I am
                        glad, oh, so glad, that you have known all the time. It relieves my mind and
                        my conscience tremendously."
                    " Yes," he said gently; "I have known all along
                             that you were not Mr. Lorry's
                        wife." He had divined her thought and she flushed hotly.
                        "You are still a princess, however. A poor goat-hunter can only
                        look upon the rich American girl as a sovereign whom he must worship from
                        far below."
                    "Oh, I'm not so rich as all that," she cried.
                        "Besides, I think it is time for a general clearing-up of the
                        mysteries. Are you Prince Dantan, Prince Frederic, or that other one ---
                        Christobal somebody? Come, be fair with me."
                    "It seems that all Edelweiss looks upon me as a prince in disguise.
                        You found me in the hills ----"
                    "No; you found me. I have not forgotten, sir."
                    "I was a vagabond and a fugitive. My friends are hunted as I am. We
                        have no home. Why everyone should suspect me of being a prince I cannot
                        understand. Every roamer in the hills is not a prince. There is a price upon
                        my head, and there is a reward for the capture of every man who was with me
                        in the pass. My name is Paul Baldos, Miss Calhoun. There is no mystery in
                        that. If you were to mention it in a certain city, you would quickly find
                        that the name of Baldos is not unknown to the people who are searching for
                        him. No, your highness, I regret exceedingly that I must destroy the absurd
                        impression that I am of royal blood. Perhaps I am spoiling a pretty romance,
                        but it cannot be helped. I was Baldos, the goat-hunter; I am now Baldos, the
                        guard. Do you think that I would be serving as a Graustark guard if I were
                        any one of the men you mention?"
                    Beverly listened in wonder and some disappoint-  ment, it must be confessed. Somehow a spark of hope was being forever
                        extinguished by this straight-forward denial. He was not to be the prince
                        she had seen in dreams. "You are not like anyone else,"
                        she said. "That is why we thought of you as --- as --- as
                        ----"
                    "As one of those unhappy creatures they call princes? Thank fortune,
                        your highness, I am not yet reduced to such straits. My exile will come only
                        when you send me away."
                    They were silent for a long time. Neither was thinking of the hour, or the
                        fact that her absence in the castle could not be unnoticed. Night had fellen
                        heavily upon the earth. The two faithful chair-bearers, respectful but with
                        wonder in their souls, stood afar off and waited. Baldos and Beverly were
                        alone in their own little world.
                    "I think I liked you better when you wore the red feather and that
                        horrid patch of black," she said musingly.
                    "And was a heart-free vagabond," he added, something
                        imploring in his voice.
                    "An independent courtier, if you please, sir," she said
                        severely.
                    "Do you want me to go back to the hills? I have the patch and the
                        feather, and my friends are ----"
                    "No! Don't suggest such a thing --- yet." She
                        began the protest eagerly and ended it in confusion.
                    "Alas, you mean that some day banishment is not
                        unlikely?"
                    
                    "You don't expect to be a guard all your life, do
                        you?"
                    "Not to serve the princess of Graustark, I confess. My aim is much
                        higher. If God lets me choose the crown I would serve, I shall enlist for
                        life. The crown I would serve is wrought of love, the throne I would kneel
                        before is a heart, the sceptre I would follow is in the slender hand of a
                        woman. I could live and die in the service of my own choosing. But I am only
                        the humble goat-hunter whose hopes are phantoms, whose ideals are conceived
                        in impotence."
                    "That was beautiful," murmured Beverly, looking up,
                        fascinated for the moment.
                    "Oh, that I had the courage to enlist," he cried, bending
                        low once more. She felt the danger in his voice, half tremulous with
                        something more than loyalty, and drew her hand away from a place of instant
                        jeopardy. It was fire that she was playing with, she realized with a start
                        of consciousness. Sweet as the spell had grown to be, she saw that it must
                        be shattered.
                    "It is getting frightfully late," she sharply exclaimed.
                        "They'll wonder where I've gone to. Why,
                        it's actually dark."
                    "It has been dark for half an hour, your highness, said he, drawing
                        himself up with sudden rigidness that distressed her. "Are you
                        going to return to the castle?"
                    "Yes. They'll have out a searching party pretty soon if I
                        don't appear."
                    "You have been good to me to-day," he said 
                        
                            "That was beautiful," murmured Beverly, looking up,
                                fascinated for the moment.
                        
                         thoughtfully. "I shall try to merit
                        the kindness. Let me ----"
                    "Oh, please don't talk in that humble way! It's
                        ridiculous! I'd rather have you absolutely impertinent, I declare
                        upon my honor I would. Don't you remember how you talked when you
                        wore the red feather? Well, I liked it."
                    Baldos laughed easily, happily. His heart was not very humble, though his
                        voice and manner were.
                    "Red is the color of insolence, you mean."
                    "It's a good deal jauntier than blue," she
                        declared.
                    "Before you call the bearers, Miss --- your highness, I wish to
                        retract something I said awhile ago," he said very seriously.
                    "I should think you would," she responded, utterly
                        misinterpreting his intent.
                    "You asked me to tell you what my message to Ravone contained and I
                        refused. Subsequently the extent of his message to me led us into a most
                        thorough understanding. It is only just and right that you should know what
                        I said to him."
                    "I trust you, Baldos," she protested simply.
                    "That is why I tell this to you. Yesterday, your highness, the
                        castle guard received their month's pay. You may not know how well
                        we are paid, so I will say that it is ten gavvos to each. The envelope which
                        I gave to Ravone contained my wages for the past six weeks. They need it far
                        more than I do. There was also a short note of good cheer to those poor
                        comrades of mine, and the assurance that one day our luck may change and
                        starvation be succeeded by  plenty. And, still
                        more, I told him that I knew you to be Miss Calhoun and that you were my
                        angel of inspiration. That was all, your highness."
                    "Thank you, Baldos, for telling me," she said softly.
                        "You have made me ashamed of myself."
                    "On the contrary, I fear that I have been indulging in mock heroics.
                        Truth and egotism --- like a salad --- require a certain amount of
                        dressing."
                    "Since you are Baldos, and not a fairy prince, I think you may
                        instruct the men to carry me back, being without the magic tapestry which
                        could transplant me in a whiff. Goodness, who's that?"
                    Within ten feet of the sedan chair and directly behind the tall guard stood a
                        small group of people. He and Beverly, engrossed in each other, had not
                        heard their approach. How long they had been silent spectators of the little
                        scene only the intruders knew. The startled, abashed eyes of the girl in the
                        chair were not long in distinguishing the newcomers. A pace in front of the
                        others stood the gaunt, shadow form of Count Marlanx.
                    Behind him were the Princess Yetive, the old prime minister, and Baron
                        Dangloss.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIX
                    THE NIGHT FIRES
                    WHY, good evening. Is that you?" struggled somewhat hysterically
                        through Beverly's lips. Not since the dear old days of the stolen
                        jam and sugar-bits had she known the feelings of a culprit caught
                        red-handed. The light from the park lamps revealed a merry, accusing smile
                        on thie face of Yetive, but the faces of the men were serious. Marlanx was
                        the picture of suppressed fury.
                    "It is the relief expedition, your highness," said Yetive
                        warmly. "We thought you were lost in the wilds of the
                        jungle."
                    "She is much better protected than we could have imagined,"
                        said the Iron Count, malevolently mild and polite.
                    "Can't I venture into the park without being sent
                        for?" asked Beverly, ready to fly into the proper rage. The pink
                        had left her cheeks white. "I am proud to observe, however, that
                        the relief expedition is composed of the most distinguished people in all
                        Graustark. Is there any significance to be attached to the
                        circumstance?"
                    
                    "Can't we also go strolling in the park, my dear?"
                        plaintively asked Yetive.
                    "It depends upon where we stroll, I fancy," suggested
                        Marlanx derisively. Beverly flashed a fierce look at the head of the army.
                        "By the way, Baron Dangloss, where is the incomparable
                        Haddan?"
                    Baldos shot a startled glance at the two men and in an instant comprehension
                        came to him. He knew the secret of Haddan's constant companionship.
                        An expression of bitter scorn settled upon his mouth. Dangloss mumbled a
                        reply, at which the Iron Count laughed sarcastically.
                    "I am returning to the castle," said Beverly coldly.
                        "Pray don't let me interfere with your stroll. Or is it
                        possible that you think it necessary to deliver me safely to my nurse, now
                        that you have found me?"
                    "Don't be angry, dear," whispered Yetive, coming
                        close to her side. "I will tell you all about it later on. It was
                        all due to Count Marlanx."
                    "It was all done to humiliate me," replied Beverly,
                        indignation surpassing confusion at last. "I hate all of
                        you."
                    "Oh, Beverly!" whispered the princess, in distress.
                    "Well, perhaps you were led into it,"
                        retracted Beverly, half mollified. "Look at that old villain
                        whispering over there. No wonder his wives up and died. They just had to do it. I hate all but you and Count Halfont and
                        Baron Dangloss," which left but one condemned.
                    "And Baldos?" added Yetive, patting her hand.
                    "I wish you'd be sensible," cried Beverly, most
                        un-  graciously, and Yetive's soft
                        laugh irritated her. "How long had you been listening to
                        us?"
                    "Not so much as the tiniest part of a minute," said Yetive,
                        recalling another disastrous eavesdropping. "I am much wiser than
                        when Baldos first came to serve you. We were quite a distance behind Count
                        Mlarlanx, I assure you."
                    "Then he heard something?" asked Beverly
                        anxiously.
                    "He has been in a detestable mood ever since we rejoined him. Could
                        he have heard anything disagreeable?"
                    "No; on the contrary, it was quite agreeable."
                    All this time Baldos was standing at attention a few paces off, a model
                        soldier despite the angry shifting of his black eyes. He saw that they had
                        been caught in a most unfortunate position. No amount of explaining could
                        remove the impression that had been forced upon the witnesses, voluntary or
                        involuntary as the case might be. Baldos could do nothing to help her, while
                        she was compelled to face the suspicions of her best friends. At best it
                        could be considered nothing short of a clandestine meeting, the consequences
                        of which she must suffer, not he. In his heated brain he was beginning to
                        picture scandal with all the disgusting details that grow out of evil
                        misrepresentation.
                    Count Halfont separated himself from the group of three and advanced to the
                        sedan-chair. Marlanx and Dangloss were arguing earnestly in low tones.
                    "Shall we return, your highness?" asked Halfont,  addressing both with one of his rarest
                        smiles. "If I remember aright, we were to dine en
                            famille to-night, and it is well upon the hour. Besides, Count
                        Marlanx is a little distressed by your absent-mindedness, Miss Beverly, and
                        I fancy he is eager to have it out with you."
                    "My absent-mindedness? What is it that I have forgotten?"
                        asked Beverly, puckering her brow.
                    "That's the trouble, dear," said Yetive.
                        "You forgot your promise to teach him how to play that awful game
                        called poker. He has waited for you at the castle since six
                        o'clock. It is now eight. Is it any wonder that he led the
                        searching party? He has been on nettles for an hour and a
                        half."
                    "Goodness, I'll wager he's in a temper!"
                        exclaimed Beverly, with no remorse, but some apprehension.
                    "It would be wisdom to apologize to him," suggested Yetive,
                        and her uncle nodded earnestly.
                    "All right. I think I can get him into good humor without half
                        trying. Oh, Count Marlanx! Come here, please. You aren't angry with
                        me, are you? Wasn't it awful for me to run away and leave you to
                        play solitaire instead of poker? But, don't you know, I was so
                        wretchedly tired after the ride, and I knew you wouldn't mind if I
                        ----" and so she ran glibly on, completely forestalling him, to the
                        secret amusement of the others. Nevertheless, she was nervous and
                        embarrassed over the situation. There was every reason to fear that the Iron
                        Count had heard and seen enough to form a pretty good opinion of what had
                        passed between herself and Baldos in this remote  corner of the park. A deep sense of shame was taking
                        possession of her.
                    Marlanx, smiling significantly, looked into her brave little face, and
                        permitted her to talk on until she had run out of breath and composure. Then
                        he bowed with exaggerated gallantry and informed her that he was hers to
                        command, and that it was not for him to forgive but to accept whatever was
                        her gracious pleasure. He called upon the chair-bearers and they took up
                        their burden. Beverly promptly changed her mind and concluded to walk to the
                        castle. And so they started off, the chair going ahead as if out of
                        commission forever. Despite her efforts to do so, the American girl (feeling
                        very much abused, by the way), was unsuccessful in the attempt to keep the
                        princess at her side. Yetive deliberately walked ahead with Halfont and
                        Dangloss. It seemed to Beverly that they walked unnecessarily fast and that
                        Marlanx was provokingly slow. Baldos was twenty paces behind, as was his
                        custom.
                    "Is it necessary for me to ask you to double the number of lessons I
                        am to have?" Marlanx asked. He was quite too close to her side to
                        please Beverly.
                    "Can't you learn in one lesson? Most Americans think they
                        know all about poker after the first game."
                    " I am not so quick-witted, your highness."
                    "Far be it from me to accelerate your wits, Count Marlanx. It might
                        not be profitable."
                    "You might profit by losing, you know," he ventured,
                        leaning still closer. "Poker is not the only  game of chance. It was chance that gave me a winning
                        hand this evening."
                    "I don't understand."
                    "It shall be my pleasure to teach you in return for instructions I
                        am to have. I have tried to teach your excellent guard one phase of the
                        game. He has not profited, I fear. He has been blind enough to pick a losing
                        hand in spite of my advice. It is the game of hearts." Beverly
                        could not but understand. She shrank away with a shudder. Her wits did not
                        desert her, however.
                    "I know the game," she said steadily.
                        "One's object is to cast off all the hearts. I have been
                        very lucky at the game, Count Marlanx."
                    "Umph! " was his ironical comment. "Ah,
                        isn't this a night for lovers?" he went on, changing tack
                        suddenly. "To stroll in the shadows, where even the moon is blind,
                        is a joy that love alone provides. Come, fair mistress, share this joy with
                        me."
                    With that his hand closed over her soft arm above the elbow and she was drawn
                        close to his side. Beverly's first shock of revulsion was succeeded
                        by the distressing certainty that Baldos was a helpless witness of this
                        indignity. She tried to jerk her arm away, but he held it tight.
                    "Release my arm, sir!" she cried, hoarse with passion.
                    "Call your champion, my lady. It will mean his death. I have
                        evidence that will insure his conviction and execution within an hour.
                        Nothing could save him. Call him, I say, and ----"
                    
                    "I will call him. He is my sworn protector, and I
                        will command him to knock you down if you don't go away,"
                        she flared, stopping decisively.
                    "At his peril ----"
                    "Baldos!" she called, without a second's
                        hesitation. The guard came up with a rush just as Marlanx released her arm
                        and fell away with a muttered imprecation.
                    "Your highness!" cried Baldos, who had witnessed
                        everything.
                    "Are you afraid to die?" she demanded briefly and
                        clearly.
                    "No!"
                    "That is all," she said, suddenly calm. "I merely
                        wanted to prove it to Count Marlanx." Tact had come to her relief
                        most opportunely. Like a flash she saw that a conflict between the commander
                        of the army and a guard could have but one result and that disastrous to the
                        latter. One word from her would have ended everything for Baldos. She saw
                        through the Iron Count's ruse as if by divine inspiration and
                        profited where he least expected her to excel in shrewdness. Marlanx had
                        deliberately invited the assault by the guard. His object had been to snare
                        Baldos into his own undoing, and a horrible undoing it would have been. One
                        blow would have secured the desired result. Nothing could have saved the
                        guard who had struck his superior officer. But Beverly thought in time.
                    "To die is easy, your highness. You have but to ask it of
                        me," said Baldos, whose face was white and drawn.
                    
                    "She has no intention of demanding such a pleasant
                        sacrifice," observed Count Marlanx, covering his failure skilfully.
                        "Later on, perhaps, she may sign your death warrant. I am proud to
                        hear, sir, that a member of my corps has the courage to face the inevitable,
                        even though he be an alien and unwilling to die on the field of battle. You
                        have my compliments, sir. You have been on irksome duty for several hours
                        and must be fatigued as well as hungry. A soldier suffers many deprivations,
                        not the least of which is starvation in pursuit of his calling. Mess is not
                        an unwelcome relief to you after all these arduous hours. You may return to
                        the barracks at once. The princess is under my care for the remainder of the
                        campaign."
                    Baldos looked first at her and then at the sarcastic old general. Yetive and
                        her companions were waiting for them at the fountain, a hundred yards
                        ahead.
                    "You may go, Baldos," said Beverly in low tones.
                    "I am not fatigued nor ----" he began eagerly.
                    "Go!" snarled Marlanx. "Am I to repeat a command
                        to you? Do you ignore the word of your mistress?" There was a
                        significant sneer in the way he said it.
                    "Mistress?" gasped Baldos, his eye blazing, his arm half
                        raised.
                    "Count Marlanx!" implored Beverly, drawing herself to her
                        full height and staring at him like a wounded thing.
                    "I humbly implore you not to misconstrue the meaning of the term,
                        your highness," said the Count 
                        affably. "Ah, you have dropped something. Permit he. It is a note
                        of some description, I think."
                    He stooped quickly --- too quickly --- and recovered from the ground at her
                        feet the bit of paper which had fallen from her hand. It was the note from
                        Ravone to Baldos which Beverly had forgotten in the excitement of the
                        encounter.
                    "Count Marlanx, give me that paper!" demanded Beverly
                        breathlessly.
                    "Is it a love-letter? Perhaps it is intended for me. At any rate,
                        your highness, it is safe against my heart for the time being. When we reach
                        the castle I shall be happy to restore it. It is safer with me. Come, we go
                        one way and --- have you not gone, sir?" in his most sarcastic tone
                        to the guard. Beverly was trembling.
                    "No, I have not; and I shall not go until I see you obey the command
                        of her higlness. She has asked you for that piece of paper," said
                        Baldos, standing squarely in front of Marlanx.
                    "Insolent dog! Do you mean to question my ----"
                    "Give over that paper!"
                    "If you strike me, fellow, it will be ----"
                    "If I strike you it will be to kill, Count Marlanx. The paper,
                        sir." Baldos towered over the Iron Count and there was danger in
                        his dare-devil voice. "Surely, sir, I am but obeying your own
                        instructions. 'Protect the princess and all that is hers, with your
                        life,' you have said to me."
                    "Oh, I wish you hadn't done this, Baldos," cried
                        Beverly, panic-stricken.
                    
                    "You have threatened my life. I shall not forget it, fool. Here is
                        the precious note, your highness, with my condolences to the
                        writer." Marlanx passed the note to her and then looked
                        triumphantly at the guard. "I daresay you have done all you can,
                        sir. Do you wish to add anything more?"
                    "What can one do when dealing with his superior and finds him a
                        despicable coward?" said Baldos, with cool irony. "You are
                        reputed to be a brave soldier. I know that to be false or I would ask you to
                        draw the sword you carry and ----" He was drawing his sword as he
                        spoke.
                    "Baldos!" implored Beverly. Her evident concern infuriated
                        Marlanx. In his heart he knew Baldos to be a man of superior birth and a
                        foeman not to be despised from his own station. Carried away by passion, he
                        flashed his sword from its sheath.
                    "You have drawn on me, sir," he snarled. "I must
                        defend myself against even such as you. You will find that I am no coward.
                        Time is short for your gallant lover, madam."
                    Before she could utter a word of protest the blades had clashed and they were
                        hungry for blood. It was dark in the shadows of the trees and the trio were
                        quite alone with their tragedy. She heard Baldos laugh recklessly in
                        response to Marlanx's cry of:
                    "Oh, the shame of fighting with such carrion as you!"
                    "Don't jest at a time like this, count," said the
                        guard, softly. "Remember that I lose, no matter which way it goes.
                        If you kill me I lose, if I beat  you I lose.
                        Remember, you can still have me shot for insubordination and conduct
                        unbecoming ----"
                    "Stop!" almost shrieked Beverly. At risk of personal injury
                        she rushed between the two swordsmen. Both drew back and dropped their
                        points. Not a dozen passes had been made.
                    "I beg your highness's pardon," murmured Baldos,
                        but he did not sheathe his sword.
                    "He forced it upon me," cried Marlanx triumphantly.
                        "You were witness to it all. I was a fool to let it go as far as
                        this. Put up your sword until another day --- if that day ever comes to
                        you."
                    "He will have you shot for this, Baldos," cried Beverly in
                        her terror. Baldos laughed bitterly.
                    "Tied and blindfolded, too, your highness, to prove that he is a
                        brave man and not a coward. It was short but it was sweet. Would that you
                        had let the play go on. There was a spice in it that made life worth living
                        and death worth the dying. Have you other commands for me, your
                        highness?" His manner was so cool and defiant that she felt the
                        tears spring to her eyes.
                    "Only that you put up your sword and end this miserable affair by
                        going to your --- your room."
                    " It is punishment enough. To-morrow's execution can be no
                        harder."
                    Marlanx had been thinking all this time. Into his soul came the thrill of
                        triumph, the consciousness of a mighty power. He saw the chance to benefit
                        by the sudden clash and he was not slow to seize it.
                    "Never fear, my man," he said easily, "it
                        won't  be as bad as that. I can well
                        afford to overlook your indiscretion of to-night. There will be no
                        execution, as you call it. This was an affair between men, not between man
                        and the state. Our gracious referee is to be our judge. It is for her to
                        pardon and to condemn. It was very pretty while it lasted and you are too
                        good a swordsman to be shot. Go your way, Baldos, and remember me as Marlanx
                        the man, not Marlanx the general. As your superior officer, I congratulate
                        and commend you upon the manner in which you serve the
                        princess."
                    "You will always find me ready to fight and to die for
                        her," said Baldos gravely. "Do you think you can remember
                        that, Count Marlanx?"
                    "I have an excellent memory," said the count steadily. With
                        a graceful salute to Beverly, Baldos turned and walked away in the
                        darkness.
                    "A perfect gentleman, Miss Calhoun, but a wretched
                        soldier," said Marlanx grimly.
                    "He is a hero," she said quietly, a great calmness coming
                        over her. "Do you mean it when you say you are not going to have
                        him punished? He did only what a man should do, and I glory in his
                        folly."
                    "I may as well tell you point blank that you alone can save him. He
                        does not deserve leniency. It is in my power and it is my province to have
                        him utterly destroyed, not only for this night's work, but for
                        other and better reasons. I have positive proof that he is a spy. He knows I
                        have this proof. That is why he would have killed me just now. It is for you
                        to say whether he shall meet the fate of a spy  or go unscathed. You have but to exchange promises with me and the
                        estimable guardsman goes free --- but he goes from Edelweiss forever. To-day
                        he met the enemy's scouts in the hills, as you know quite well.
                        Messages were exchanged, secretly, which you do not know of, of course.
                        Before another day is gone I expect to see the results of his treachery.
                        There may be manifestations to-night. You do not believe me, but wait and
                        see if I am not right. He is one of Gabriel's cleverest
                        spies."
                    "I do not believe it. You shall not accuse him of such
                        things," she cried. "Besides, if he is a spy why should
                        you shield him for my sake? Don't you owe it to Graustark to expose
                        ----"
                    "Here is the princess," said he serenely. "Your
                        highness," addressing Yetive, "Miss Calhoun has a note
                        which she refuses to let anyone read but you. Now, my dear young lady, you
                        may give it directly into the hands of her highness."
                    Beverly gave him a look of scorn, but without a second's hesitation
                        placed the missive in Yetive's hand. The Iron Count's jaw
                        dropped, and he moistened his lips with his tongue two or three times.
                        Something told him that a valuable chance had gone.
                    "I shall be only too happy to have your highness read the result of
                        my first lesson in the Graustark language," she said, smiling gaily
                        upon the count.
                    Two men in uniform came rushing up to the party, manifestly excited. Saluting
                        the general, both began speak at once.
                    
                    "One at a time," commanded the count. "What is
                        it?"
                    Other officers of the guard and a few noblemen from the castle came up, out
                        of breath.
                    "We have discerned signal fires in the hills, your
                        excellency," said one of the men from the fort. "There is
                        a circle of fires and they mean something important. For half an hour they
                        have been burning near the monastery; also in the valley below and on the
                        mountains to the south."
                    There was an instant of deathly silence, as if the hearers awaited a crash.
                        Marlanx looked steadily at Beverly's face and she saw the
                        triumphant, accusing gleam in his eyes. Helplessly she stared into the crowd
                        of faces. Her eyes fell upon Baldos, who suddenly appeared in the
                        background. His fas wore a hunted, imploring look. The next instant
                        disappeared among the shadows.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XX
                    GOSSIP OF SOME CONSEQUENCE
                    THERE is no time to be lost," exclaimed Count Marlanx. "Ask
                        Colonel Braze to report to me at the eastern gate with a detail of picked
                        troopers --- a hundred of them. I will meet him there in half an
                        hour." He gave other sharp, imperative commands, and in the
                        twinkling of an eye the peaceful atmosphere was transformed into the
                        turbulent, exciting rush of activity. The significance of the fires seen in
                        the hills could not be cheaply held. Instant action was demanded. The city
                        was filled with the commotion of alarm; the army was brought to its feet
                        with a jerk that startled even the most ambitious.
                    The first thing that General Marlanx did was to instruct Quinnox to set a
                        vigilant watch over Baldos. He was not to be arrested, but it was understood
                        that the surveillance should be but little short of incarceration. He was
                        found at the barracks shortly after the report concerning the signal fires,
                        and told in plain words that General Marlans had ordered a guard placed over
                        him for the time being, pending the result an investigation. IBaldos had
                        confidently expected  to be thrown into a
                        dungeon for his affront. He did not know that Grenfall Lorry stood firm in
                        his conviction that Baldos was no spy, and was supported by others in high
                        authority.
                    Marlanx was bottling his wrath and holding back his revenge for a distinct
                        purpose. Apart from the existence of a strong, healthy prejudice in the
                        guard's favor, what the old general believed and what he could
                        prove were two distinct propositions. He was crafty enough, however, to take
                        advantage of a condition unknown to Beverly Calhoun, the innocent cause of
                        his bitterness toward Baldos.
                    As he hastened from the council chamber, his eyes swept the crowd of eager,
                        excited women in the grand hall. From among them he picked Beverly and
                        advanced upon her without regard for time and cosequence. Despite her
                        animation he was keen enough to see that she was sorely troubled. She did
                        not shrink from him as he had half expected, but met him with bold disdain
                        in her eyes.
                    "This is the work of your champion," he said tones that did
                        not reach ears other than her own. "I prophesied it, you must
                        remember. Are you satisfied now that you have been deceived in
                        him?"
                    "I have implicit confidence in him. I suppose you have ordered his
                        arrest?" she asked with quiet sscorn.
                    "He is under surveillance, at my suggestion. For your sake, and
                        yours alone, I am giving him a chance. He is your protg; you are
                        responsible for his conduct. To accuse him would be to place you in an
                        embarrassing position. There is a sickening rumor  in court circles that you have more than a merely
                        kind and friendly interest in the rascal. If I believed that, Miss Calhoun,
                        I fear my heart could not be kind to him. But I know it is not true. You
                        have a loftier love to give. He is a clever scoundrel, and there is no
                        telling how much harm he has already done to Graustark. His every move is to
                        be watched and reported to me. It will be impossible for him to escape. To
                        save him from the vengeance of the army, I am permitting him to remain in
                        your service, ostensibly, at least. His hours of duty have been changed,
                        however. Henceforth he is in the night guard, from midnight till dawn. I am
                        telling you this, Miss Calhoun, because I want you to know that in spite of
                        all the indignity I have suffered, you are more to me than any other being
                        in the world, more to me even than my loyalty to Graustark. Do me the honor
                        and justice to remember this. I have suffered much for you. I am a rough,
                        hardened soldier, and you have misconstrued my devotion. Forgive the harsh
                        words my passion may have inspired. Farewell! I must off to undo the damage
                        we all lay at the door of the man you and I are protecting."
                    He was too wise to give her the chance to reply. A moment later he was
                        mounted and off for the eastern gates, there to direct the movements of
                        Colonel Braze and his scouts. Beverly flew at once to Yetive with her plea
                        for Baldos. She was confronted by a rather sober-faced sovereign. The news
                        of the hour was not comforting to the princess and her ministers.
                    "You don't believe he is a spy?" cried Beverly,
                             stopping just inside the door, presuming
                        selfishly that Baldos alone was the cause for worry. She resolved to tell
                        Yetive of the conflict in the park.
                    "Dear me, Beverly, I am not thinking of him. We've
                        discussed him jointly and severally and every other way and he has been
                        settled for the time being. You are the only one who is thinking of him, my
                        dear child. We have weightier things to annoy us."
                    "Goodness, how you talk! He isn't annoying. Oh, forgive me,
                        Yetive, for I am the silliest, addle-patedest goose in the kingdom. And you
                        are so troubled. But do you know that he is being watched? They suspect him.
                        So did I, at first, I'll admit it But I don't --- now.
                        Have you read the note I gave to you out there?"
                    "Yes, dear. It's just as I expected. He has known from the
                        beginning. He knew when he caught Dagmar and me spying behind that
                        abominable curtain. But don't worry me any longer about him,
                        please. Wait here with me until we have reports from the troops. I shall not
                        sleep until I know what those fires meant. Forget Baldos for an hour or two,
                        for my sake."
                    "You dear old princess, I'm an awful brute, sure
                        'nough. I'll forget him forever for your sake. It
                        won't be hard, either. He's just a mere guard. Pooh!
                        He's no prince."
                    Whereupon, reinforced by Mrs. Anguish and Countess Halfont, she proceeded to
                        devote herserlf to the task of soothing and amusing the distressed princess
                        while the soldiers of Graustark ransacked the 
                        moonlit hills. The night passed, and the next day was far on its way to
                        sunset before the scouts came in with tidings. No trace of the mysterious
                        signalers had been found. The embers of the half-dozen fires were
                        discovered, but their builders were gone. The search took in miles of
                        territory, but it was unavailing. Not even a straggler was found. The
                        so-called troupe of actors, around whom suspicion centered, had been
                        swallowed by the capacious solitude of the hills. Riders from the frontier
                        posts to the south came in with the report that all was quiet in the
                        threatened district. Dawsbergen was lying quiescent, but with the readiness
                        of a skulking dog.
                    There was absolutely no solution to the mystery connected with the fires on
                        the mountain sides. Baldos was questioned privately and earnestly by Lorry
                        and Dangloss. His reply was simple, but it furnished food for reflection
                        and, at the same time, no little relief to the troubled leaders.
                    "It is my belief, Mr. Lorry, that the fires were built by brigands
                        and not by your military foes. I've seen these fires in the north,
                        near Axphain, and they were invariably meant to establish communication
                        between separated squads of robbers, all belonging to one band. My friends
                        and I on more than one occasion narrowly escaped disaster by prying into the
                        affairs of these signalers. I take it that the squads have been operating in
                        the south and were brought together last night by means of the fires.
                        Doubtless they have some big project of their own sort on
                        foot."
                    That night the city looked for a repetition of the  fires, but the mountains were black from dusk till
                        dawn. Word reached the castle late in the evening, from Ganlook, that an
                        Axphainian nobleman and his followers would reach Edelweiss the next day.
                        The visit was a friendly but an important one. The nobleman was no other
                        than the young Duke of Mizrox, intimate friend of the unfortunate Prince
                        Lorenz who met his death at the hand of Prince Gabriel, and was the leader
                        of the party which opposed the vengeful plans of Princess Volga. His arrival
                        in Edelweiss was awaited with deep anxiety, for it was suspected that his
                        news would be of the most important character.
                    Beverly Calhoun sat on the balcony with the princess long after midnight. The
                        sky was black with the clouds of an approaching storm; the air was heavy
                        with foreboding silence. Twice, from their darkened corner near the pillar,
                        they saw Baldos as he paced steadily past the castle on patrol, with Haddan
                        at his side. Dreamily the watchers in the cool balcony looked down upon the
                        somber park and its occasional guardsman. Neither was in the mood to talk.
                        As they rose at last to go to their rooms, something whizzed through the air
                        and dropped with a slight thud in the center of the balcony. The two young
                        women started back in alarm. A faint light from Beverly's window
                        filtered across the stone floor.
                    "Don't touch it, Beverly," cried the princess, as
                        the girl started forward with an eager exclamation. But Beverly had been
                        thinking of the very object that now quivered before her in the dull light,
                        saucy, ag-  ressive and jaunty as it was the
                        night when she saw it for the first time.
                    A long, slim red feather bobbed to and fro as if saluting her with soldierly
                        fidelity. Its base was an orange, into which it had been stuck by the hand
                        that tossed it from below. Beverly grasped it with more ecstasy than wisdom
                        and then rushed to the stone railing, Yetive looking on in amazement.
                        Diligently she searched the ground below for the man who had sent the red
                        message, but he was nowhere in sight. Then came the sudden realization that
                        she was revealing a most unmaidenly eagerness, to him as well as to
                        princess, for she did not doubt that he was watching from the shadows below.
                        She withdrew from the rail in confusion and fled to her bed-chamber,
                        followed by her curious companion. There were explanations --- none of which
                        struck speaker or listener as logical --- and there were giggles which
                        completely simplified the situation. Beverly thrust the slim red feather
                        into her hair, and struck an attitude that would have set Baldos wild with
                        joy if he could have seen it. The next day, when she appeared in the park,
                        the feather stood up defiantly from the band of her sailor hat, though
                        womanly perverseness impelled her to ignore Baldos when he passed her on his
                        way to mess.
                    The Duke of Mizrox came into the city hours after the time set for his
                        arrival. It was quite dark when the escort sent by Colonel Quinnox drew up
                        at the castle gates with the visitor. The duke and his party had been robbed
                        by brigands in the broad daylight  and at a
                        point not more than five miles from Edelweiss! And thus the mystery of the
                        signal fires was explained. Count Marlanx did not soon forget the triumphant
                        look he received from Beverly Calhoun when the duke's misfortunes
                        were announced. Shameless as it may seem, she rejoiced exceedingly over the
                        acts of the robbers.
                    Mizrox announced to the princess and her friends; that he was not an emissary
                        from the Axphainian government. Instead, he was but little less than a
                        fugitive from the wrath of Volga and the crown adherents. Earlier in the
                        week he had been summoned before Volga and informed that his absence for a
                        few months, at least, from the principality was desirable. The privilege was
                        allowed him of selecting the count which he desired to visit during that
                        period, and coolly chose Graustark. He was known to have friendly feelings
                        for that state; but no objections were raised. This friendship also gave him
                        a welcome in Edelweiss. Mizrox plainly stated his position to Yetive and the
                        prime minister. He asked for protection, but declined to reveal any of the
                        plans then maturing in his home country. This reluctance to become a
                        traitor, even though he was not in sympathy with his sovereign, was
                        respected by the princess. He announced his willingness to take up arms
                        against Dawsbergen, but would in no way antagonize Axphain from an
                        enemy's camp.
                    The duke admitted that the feeling in Axphain' upper circles was
                        extremely bitter toward Graustark.  The
                        old-time war spirit had not died down. Axphain despised her progressive
                        neighbor.
                    "I may as well inform your highness that the regent holds another
                        and a deeper grudge against Graustark," he said, in the audience
                        chamber where were assembled many of the nobles of the state, late on the
                        night of his arrival. "She insists that you are harboring and even
                        shielding the pretender to our throne, Prince Frederic. It is known that he
                        is in Graustark and, moreover, it is asserted that he is in direct touch
                        with your government."
                    Yetive and her companions looked at one another with glances of
                        comprehension. He spoke in English now for the benefit of Beverly Calhoun,
                        an interested spectator, who felt her heart leap suddenly and swiftly into
                        violent insurrection.
                    "Nothing could be more ridiculous," said Yetive after a
                        pause. "We do not know Frederic, and we are not harboring
                        him."
                    "I am only saying what is believed to be true by Axphain, your
                        highness. It is reported that he joined you in the mountains in June and
                        since has held a position of trust in your army."
                    "Would you know Prince Frederic if you were to see him?"
                        quietly asked Lorry.
                    "I have not seen him since he was a very small boy, and then but for
                        a moment --- on the day when he and his mother were driven through the
                        streets on their way to exile."
                    "We have a new man in the Castle Guard and there is a mystery
                        attached to him. Would you mind look-  ing at
                        him and telling us if he is what Frederic might be in his manhood?"
                        Lorry put the question and everyone present drew a deep breath of
                        interest.
                    Mizrox readily consented and Baldos, intercepted on his rounds, was led
                        unsuspecting into an outer chamber. The duke, accompanied by Lorry and Baron
                        Dangloss, entered the room. They were gone from the assemblage but a few
                        minutes, returning with smiles of uncertainty on their faces.
                    "It is impossible, your highness, for me to say whether or not it is
                        Frederic," said the duke frankly. "He is what I imagine
                        the pretender might be at his age, but it would be sheer folly for me to
                        speculate. I do not know the man."
                    Beverly squeezed the Countess Dagmar's arm convulsively.
                    "Hurrah!" she whispered, in great relief. Dagmar looked at
                        her in astonishment. She could not fathom the whimsical American.
                    "They have been keeping an incessant watch over the home of
                        Frederic's cousin. He is to marry her when the time is
                        propitious," volunteered the young duke. "She is the most
                        beautiful girl in Axphain, and the family is one of the wealthiest. Her
                        parents bitterly oppose the match. They were to have been secretly married
                        some months ago, and there is a rumor to the effect that they did succeed in
                        evading the vigilance of her people."
                    "You mean that they may be married?" asked Yetive, casting
                        a quick glance at Beverly.
                    "It is not improbable, your highness. He is  known to be a daring young fellow, and he has never
                        failed in a siege against the heart of woman. Report has it that he is the
                        most invincible Lothario that ever donned love's armor."
                        Beverly was conscious of furtive glances in her direction, and a faint pink
                        stole into her temples. "Our fugitive princes are lucky in neither
                        love nor war," went on the duke. "Poor Dantan, who is
                        hiding from Gabriel, is betrothed to the daughter of the present prime
                        minister of Dawsbergen, the beautiful Iolanda. I have seen her. She
                        glorious, your highness."
                    "I, too, have seen her," said Yetive, more gravely than she
                        thought. "The report of their betrothal true, then?"
                    "His sudden overthrow prevented the nuptials which were to have
                        taken place in a month had not Gabriel returned. Her father, the Duke of
                        Matz, wisely accepted the inevitable and became prime minister to Gabriel.
                        Iolanda, it is said, remains true to him and sends messages to him as he
                        wanders through the mountains."
                    Beverly's mind instantly reverted to the confessions of Baldos. He
                        had admitted the sending and receiving of messages through Franz. Try as she
                        would, she could not drive the thought from her mind that he was Dantan and
                        now came the distressing fear that his secret messages were words of love
                        from Iolanda. The audience lasted until late in the night, but she as so
                        occupied with her own thoughts that she knew but little that transpired.
                    Of one thing she was sure. She could not go to sleep that night.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXI
                    THE ROSE
                    THE next morning Aunt Fanny had a hard time of it. Her mistress was petulant;
                        there was no sunshine in the bright August day as it appeared to her. Toward
                        dawn, after she had counted many millions of black sheep jumping backward
                        over a fence, she had fallen asleep. Aunt Fanny obeyed her usual
                        instructions on this luckless morning. It was Beverly's rule to be
                        called every morning at seven o'clock. But how was her attendant to
                        know that the graceful young creature who had kicked the counterpane to the
                        foot of the bed and had mauled the pillow out of all shape, had slept for
                        less than thirty minutes? How was she to know that the flushed face and
                        frown were born in the course of a night of distressing perplexities? She
                        knew only that the sleeping beauty who lay before her was the fairest
                        creature in all the universe. For some minutes Aunt Fanny stood off and
                        admired the rich youthful glory of the sleeper, prophetically reluctant to
                        disturb her happiness. Then she obeyed the impulse of duty and spoke the
                        summoning words.
                    
                    "Wha --- what time is it?" demanded the newcomer from the
                        land of Nod, stretching her fine young body with a splendid but discontented
                        yawn.
                    "Seben, Miss Bev'ly; wha' time do yo'
                        s'pose hit is? Hit's d' reg'lah time,
                        o' co'se. Did yo' all have a nice sleep,
                        honey?" and Aunt Fanny went blissfully about the business of the
                        hour.
                    "I didn't sleep a wink, confound it," grumbled
                        Beverly, rubbing her eyes and turning on her back to glare up at the
                        tapestry above the couch.
                    "Yo' wasn' winkin' any when Ah fust come
                        into de room, lemme tell yo'," cackled Aunt Fanny with
                        caustic freedom.
                    "See here, now, Aunt Fanny, I'm not going to stand any
                        lecture from you this morning. When a fellow hasn't slept a
                        ---"
                    "Who's a-lecturin' anybody, Ah'd lak to
                        know? Ah'm jes' tellin' yo' what
                        yo' was a-doin' when Ah came into de room. Yo'
                        was a-sleepin' p'etty dog-gone tight, lemme tell
                        yo'. Is yo' goin' out fo' yo'
                        walk befo' b'eakfus, honey? 'Cause if
                        yo' is, yo' all 'll be obleeged to climb
                        out'n dat bald maghty quick-like. Yo' baf is ready, Miss
                        Bev'ly."
                    Beverly splashed the water with unreasonable ferocity for a few minutes,
                        trying to enjoy a diversion that had not failed her until this morning.
                    "Aunt Fanny," she announced, after looking darkly through
                        her window into the mountains above, "if you can't brush
                        my hair --- ouch! --- any easier than this, I'll have someone else
                        do it, that's all. You're a regular old
                        bear."
                    
                    "Po' lil' honey," was all the complacent
                        "bear" said in reply, without altering her methods in the
                        least.
                    "Well," said Beverly threateningly, with a shake of her
                        head, "be careful, that's all. Have you heard the
                        news?"
                    "Wha' news, Miss Bev'ly?"
                    "We're going back to Washin'ton."
                    "Thank de Lawd! When?"
                    "I don't know. I've just this instant made up my
                        mind. I think we'll start --- let's see: this is the sixth
                        of August, isn't it? Well, look and see, if you don't
                        know, stupid. The tenth? My goodness, where has the time gone, anyway? Well,
                        we'll start sometime between the eleventh and the
                        twelfth."
                    "Of dis monf, Miss Bev'ly?"
                    "No; September. I want you to look up a time-table for me to-day. We
                        must see about the trains."
                    "Dey's on'y one leavin' heah daily,
                        an' hit goes at six in de mo'nin'. One train a
                        day! Ain' 'at scan'lous?"
                    "I'm sure, Aunt Fanny, it is their business --- not
                        ours," said Beverly severely.
                    "P'raps dey mought be runnin' a excuhsion
                        'roun' 'baout Septembeh, Miss
                        Bev'ly," speculated Aunt Fanny consolingly. "Dey
                        gen'ly has 'em in Septembeh."
                    "You old goose," cried Beverly, in spite of herself.
                    "Ain' yo' habin' er good time,
                        honey?"
                    "No, I am not."
                    "Fo' de lan's sake, Ah wouldn'
                        s'picioned hit fo' a 
                        minnit. Hit's de gayest place Ah mos' eveh saw ---
                        'cept Wash'ton an' Lex'ton an'
                        Vicksbu'g."
                    "Well, you don't know everything," said Beverly
                        crossly. "I wish you'd take that red feather out of my hat
                        --- right away."
                    "Shall Ah frow hit away, Miss Bev'ly?"
                    "We --- ll, no; you needn't do that," said
                        Beverly. "Put it on my dressing-table. I'll attend to
                        it."
                    "Wha's become o' de gemman 'at
                        wo' hit in the fust place? Ah ain' seen him fo'
                        two --- three days."
                    "I'm sure I don't know. He's probably
                        asleep. That class of people never lose sleep over anything."
                    "'E's er pow'ful good-lookin'
                        pusson," suggested Aunt Fanny. Beverly's eyes
                        brightened.
                    "Oh, do you think so?" she said, quite indifferently.
                        "What are you doing with that hat?"
                    "Takin' out de featheh --- jes' as
                        ---"
                    "Well, leave it alone. Don't disturb my things, Aunt Fanny.
                        How many times must I tell you ---"
                    "Good Lawd!" was all that Aunt Fanny could say.
                    "Don't forget about the time-tables," said
                        Beverly, as she sallied forth for her walk in the park.
                    In the afternoon she went driving with Princess Yetive and the young Duke of
                        Mizrox, upon whose innocent and sufficiently troubled head she was heaping
                        secret abuse because of the news he brought. Later, Count Marlanx appeared
                        at the castle for his first lesson in poker. He looked so sure of himself
                        that Beverly hated him to the point of desperation. At the same time she was
                        eager to learn how matters  stood with Baldos.
                        The count's threat still hung over her head, veiled by its
                        ridiculous shadow of mercy. She knew him well enough by this time to feel
                        convinced that Baldos would have to account for his temerity, sooner or
                        later. It was like the cat and the helpless mouse.
                    "It's too hot," she protested, when he announced
                        himself ready for the game. "Nobody plays pokes when it's
                        92 in the shade."
                    "But, your highness," complained the count, "war
                        may break out any day. I cannot concede delay."
                    "I think there's a game called 'shooting
                        craps,'" suggested she serenely. "It seems to me
                        it would be particularly good for warriors. You could be shooking something
                        all the time."
                    He went away in a decidedly irascible frame of mind. She did not know it, but
                        Baldos was soon afterward set to work in the garrison stables, a most
                        loathsome occupation, in addition to his duties as a guard by night.
                    After mature deliberation Beverly set herself to the task of writing home to
                        her father. It was her supreme intention to convince him that she would be
                        off for the States in an amazingly short time. The major, upon receiving the
                        letter three weeks later, found nothing in it to warrant the belief that she
                        was ever coming home. He did observe, however, that she had but little use
                        for the army of Graustark, and was especially disappointed in the set of men
                        Yetive retained as her private guard. For the life of her, Beverly could not
                        have told why she disapproved of  the guard in
                        general or in particular, but she was was conscious of the fact, after the
                        letter was posted, that she had said many things that might have been left
                        unwritten. Besides, it was not Baldos's fault that she could not
                        sleep; it was distinctly her own. He had nothing to do with it.
                    "I'll bet father will be glad to hear that I am coming
                        home," she said to Yetive, after the letter was gone.
                    "Oh, Beverly, dear, I hate to hear of your going," cried
                        the princess. "When did you tell him you'd
                        start?"
                    "Why, oh,---er---let me see; when did I say? Dash
                        me --- as Mr. Anguish would say --- I don't believe I gave a date.
                        It seems to me I said soon, that's
                        all."
                    "You don't know how relieved I am," exclaimed
                        Yetive rapturously, and Beverly was in high dudgeon cause of the implied
                        reflection. "I believe you are in a tiff with Baldos,"
                        went on Yetive airily.
                    "Goodness! How foolish you can be at times, Yetive," was
                        what Beverly gave back to her highness, the Princess of Graustark.
                    Late in the evening couriers came in from the Dawsbergen frontier with
                        reports which created considerable excitement in castle and army circles.
                        Prince Gabriel himself had been seen in the northern part of his domain,
                        accompanied by a large detachment of picked soldiers. Lorry set out that
                        very night for the frontier, happy in the belief that something worth while
                        was about to occur. General Mar-  lanx issued
                        orders for the Edelweiss army corps to mass beyond the southern gates of the
                        city the next morning. Commands were also sent to the outlying garrisons.
                        There was to be a general movement of troops before the end of the week.
                        Graustark was not to be caught napping.
                    Long after the departure of Lorry and Anguish the princess sat on the balcony
                        with Beverly and the Countess Dagmar. They did not talk much. The mission of
                        these venturesome young American husbands was full of danger. Something in
                        the air had told their wives that the first blows of war were to be struck
                        before they looked again upon the men they loved.
                    "I think we have been betrayed by someone," said Dagmar,
                        after an almost interminable silence. Her companion did not reply.
                        "The, couriers say that Gabriel knows where we are weakest at the
                        front and that he knows our every movement. Yetive, there is a spy here,
                        after all."
                    "And that spy has access to the very heart of our
                        deliberations," added Beverly pointedly. "I say this in
                        behalf of the man whom you evidently suspect, countess. He could not know
                        these things."
                    "I do not say that he does know, Miss Calhoun, but it is not beyond
                        reason that he may be the go-between, the means of transferring information
                        from the traitor to the messengers who await outside our
                        walls."
                    "Oh, I don't believe it!" cried Beverly hotly.
                    "I wonder if these things would have happened if Baldos had never
                        come to Edelweiss?" mused the 
                        princess. As though by common impulse, both of the Graustark women placed
                        their arms about Beverly.
                    "It's because we have so much at stake, Beverly,
                        dear," whispered Dagmar. "Forgive me if I have hurt
                        you."
                    Of course, Beverly sobbed a little in the effort to convince them that she
                        did not care whom they accused, if he proved to be the right man in the end.
                        They left her alone on the balcony. For an hour after midnight she sat there
                        and dreamed. Everyone was ready to turn against Baldos. Even she had been
                        harsh toward him, for had she not seen him relegated to the most obnoxious
                        of duties after promising him a far different life? And now what was he
                        thinking of her? His descent from favor had followed upon the disclosures
                        which made plain to each the identity of the other. No doubt he was
                        attributing his degradation, in a sense, to the fact that she no longer
                        relished his services, having seen a romantic little ideal shattered by his
                        firm assertions. Of course, she knew that General Marlanx was alone
                        instrumental in assigning him to the unpleasant duty he now observed, but
                        how was Baldos to know that she was not the real power behind the Iron
                        Count?
                    A light drizzle began to fall, cold and disagreeable. There were no stars, no
                        moon. The ground below was black with shadows, but shimmering in spots
                        touched by the feeble park lamps. She retreated through her window,
                        determined to go to bed. Her rebellious brain, however, refused to banish
                        him from her thoughts. She wondered if he were patroling the  castle grounds in the rain, in all that lonely
                        darkness. Seized by a sudden inspiration, she threw a gossamer about her,
                        grasped an umbrella and ventured out upon the balcony once more. Guiltily
                        she searched the night through the fine drizzling rain; her ears listened
                        eagerly for the tread which was so well known to her.
                    At last he strode beneath a lamp not far away. He looked up, but, of course,
                        could not see her against the dark wall. For a long time he stood motionless
                        beneath the light. She could not help seeing that he was dejected, tired,
                        unhappy. His shoulders drooped, and there was a general air of listlessness
                        about the figure which had once been so full of courage and of hope. The
                        post light fell directly upon his face. It was somber, despondent, strained.
                        He wore the air of a prisoner. Her heart went out to him like a flash. The
                        debonair knight of the black patch was no more; in his place there stood a
                        sullen slave to discipline.
                    "Baldos!" she called softly, her voice penetrating the
                        dripping air with the clearness of a bell. He must have been longing for the
                        sound of it, for he started and looked eagerly in her direction. His tall
                        form straightened as he passed his hand over brow. It was but a voice from
                        his dream, he thought, "Aren't you afraid you'll
                        get wet?" asked the same low, sweet voice, with the suggestion of a
                        laugh behind it. With long strides he crossed the pavement and stood almost
                        directly beneath her.
                    "Your highness!" he exclaimed gently, joyously.
                        "What are you doing out there?"
                    
                    "Wondering, Baldos --- wondering what you were thinking of as you
                        stood under the lamp over there."
                    "I was thinking of your highness," he called up,
                        softly.
                    "No, no!" she protested.
                    "I, too, was wondering --- wondering what you were dreaming of as
                        you slept, for you should be asleep at this hour, your highness, instead of
                        standing out there in the rain."
                    "Baldos," she called down tremulously, "you
                        don't like this work, do you?"
                    "It has nothing but darkness in it for me. I never see the light of
                        your eyes. I never feel the ---"
                    "Sh! You must not talk like that. It's not proper, and
                        besides someone may be listening. The night has a thousand ears --- or is it
                        eyes? But listen: to-morrow you shall be restored to your old duties. You
                        surely cannot believe that I had anything to do with the order which compels
                        you to work at this unholy hour."
                    "I was afraid you were punishing me for my boldness. My heart has
                        been sore --- you never can know how sore. I was disgraced, dismissed,
                        forgotten ---"
                    "No, no --- you were not! You must not say that.
                        Go away now, Baldos. You will ride with me to-morrow," she cried
                        nervously. "Please go to some place where you won't get
                        dripping wet."
                    "You forget that I am on guard," he said with a laugh.
                        "But you are a wise counsellor. Is the rain so pleasant to
                        you?"
                    
                    " I have an umbrella," she protested. "What are
                        you doing?" she cried in alarm. He was coming hand over hand, up
                        the trellis-work that enclosed the lower verandah.
                    "I am coming to a place where I won't get dripping
                        wet," he called softly. There was a dangerous ring in his voice and
                        she drew back in a panic.
                    "You must not!" she cried desperately. "This is
                        madness! Go down, sir!"
                    "I am happy enough to fly, but cannot. So I do the next best thing
                        --- I climb to you." His arm was across the stone railing by this
                        time and he was panting from the exertion, not two feet from where she
                        crouched. "Just one minute of heaven before I go back to the
                        shadows of earth. I am happy again. Marlanx told me you had dismissed me. I
                        wonder what he holds in reserve for me. I knew he lied, but it is not until
                        now that I rejoice. Come, you are to shield me from the rain."
                    "Oh, oh!" she gasped, overwhelmed by his daring passion.
                        "I should die if anyone saw you here." Yet she
                        spasmodically extended the umbrella so that it covered him and left her out
                        in the drizzle.
                    "And so should I," responded he softly. "Listen to
                        me. For hours and hours I have been longing for the dear old hills in which
                        you found me. I wanted to crawl out of Edelweiss and lose myself forever in
                        the rocks and crags. To-night when you saw me I was trying to say good-bye
                        to you forever. I was trying to make up my mind to desert. I could not
                        endure the new order of things. You had cast 
                        me off. My friends out there were eager to have me with them. In the city
                        everyone is ready to call me a spy --- even you, I thought. Life was black
                        and drear. Now, my princess, it is as bright as heaven itself."
                    "You must not talk like this," she whispered helplessly.
                        "You are making me sorry I called to you."
                    "I should have heard you if you had only whispered, my rain
                        princess. I have no right to talk of love --- I am a vagabond; but I have a
                        heart, and it is a bold one. Perhaps I dream that I am here beside you ---
                        so near that I can touch your face --- but it is the sweetest of dreams. But
                        for it I should have left Edelweiss weeks ago. I shall never awaken from
                        this dream; you cannot rob me of the joys of dreaming."
                    Under the spell of his passion she drew nearer to him as he clung strongly to
                        the rail. The roses at her throat came so close that he could bury his face
                        in them. Her hand touched his cheek, and he kissed its palm again and again,
                        his wet lips stinging her blood to the tips of her toes.
                    "Go away, please," she implored faintly.
                        "Don't you see that you must not stay here ---
                        now?"
                    "A rose, my princess,--- one rose to kiss all through the long
                        night," he whispered. She could feel his eyes burning into her
                        heart. With trembling, hurried fingers she tore loose a rose. He could not
                        seize it with his hands because of the position he held, and she laughed
                        tantalizingly. Then she kissed it  first and
                        pressed it against his mouth. His lips and teeth closed over the stem and
                        the rose was his.
                    "There are thorns," she whispered, ever so softly.
                    "They are the riches of the poor," he murmured with
                        difficulty, but she understood.
                    "Now, go," she said, drawing resolutely away. An instant
                        later his head disappeared below the rail. Peering over the side she saw his
                        figure spring easily to the ground, and then came the rapid, steady tramp as
                        he went away on his dreary patrol.
                    "I couldn't help it," she was whispering to
                        herself between joy and shame. Glancing instinctively out toward the
                        solitary lamp she saw two men standing in its light. One of them was General
                        Marlanx; the other she knew to be the spy that watched Baldos. Her heart
                        sank like lead when she saw that the two were peering intently toward the
                        balcony where she stood, and where Baldos had clung but a moment before.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXII
                    A PROPOSAL
                    SHE shrank back with a great dread in her heart. Marlanx, of all men! Why was
                        he in the park at this hour of the night? There could be but one answer, and
                        the very thought of it almost suffocated her. He was drawing the net with
                        his own hands, he was spying with his own eyes. For a full minute it seemed
                        to her that her heart would stop beating. How long had he been standing
                        there? What had he seen or heard? Involuntarily she peered over the rail for
                        a glimpse of Baldos. He had gone out into the darkness, missing the men at
                        the lamp-post either by choice or through pure good fortune. A throb of
                        thankfulness assailed her heart. She was not thinking of her position, but
                        of his.
                    Again she drew stealthily away from the rail, possessed of a ridiculous
                        feeling that her form was as plain to the vision as if it were broad
                        daylight. The tread of a man impelled her to glance below once more before
                        fleeing to her room. Marlanx was coming toward the verandah. She fled
                        swiftly, pausing at the window to lower the friendly but forgotten um-  brella. From below came the sibilant hiss of
                        a man seeking to attract her attention. Once more she stopped to listen. The
                        "hist" was repeated, and then her own name was called
                        softly but imperatively. It was beyond the power of woman to keep from
                        laughing. It struck her as irresistibly funny that the Iron Count should be
                        standing out there in the rain, signaling to her like a love-sick boy. Once
                        she was inside, however, it did not seem so amusing. Still, it gave her an
                        immense amount of satisfaction to slam the windows loudly, as if in pure
                        defiance. Then she closed the blinds, shutting out the night completely.
                    Turning up the light at her dressing-table, she sat down in a state of sudden
                        collapse. For a long time she stared at her face in the mirror. She saw the
                        red of shame and embarrassment mount to her cheeks and then she covered her
                        eyes with her hands.
                    "Oh, what a fool you've been," she half sobbed,
                        shrinking from the mirror as if it were an accuser. She prepared for bed
                        with frantic haste. Just as she was about to scramble in and hide her face
                        in the pillows, a shocking thought came to her. The next instant she was at
                        the windows and the slats were closed with a rattle like a volley of
                        firearms. Then she jumped into bed. She wondered if the windows were locked.
                        Out she sprang again like a flash, and her little bare feet scurried across
                        the room, first to the windows and then to the door.
                    "Now, I reckon I'm safe," she murmured a moment
                        later, again getting into bed. "I love to go to sleep  with the rain pattering outside like that. Oh, dear,
                        I'm so sorry he has to walk all night in this rain. Poor fellow! I
                        wonder where he is now. Goodness, it's raining cats and
                        dogs!"
                    But in spite of the rain she could not go to sleep. Vague fears began to take
                        possession of her. Something dreadful told her that Count Marlanx was on the
                        balcony and at her window, notwithstanding the rainpour. The fear became
                        oppressive, maddening. She felt the man's presence almost as
                        strongly as if he were in plain view. He was there, she knew it.
                    The little revolver that had served her so valiantly at the Inn of the Hawk
                        and Raven lay upon a stool near the bedside every night. Consumed by the
                        fear that the window might open slowly at any moment, she reached forth and
                        clutched the weapon. Then she shrank back in the bed, her eyes fixed upon
                        the black space across the room. For hours she shivered and waited for the
                        window to open, dozing away time and again only to come back to wakefulness
                        with a start.
                    The next morning she confessed to herself that her fears had been silly. Her
                        first act after breakfasting alone in her room was to seek out Colonel
                        Quinnox, commander of the castle guard. In her mind she was greatly troubled
                        over the fate of the bold visitor of the night before. There was a warm, red
                        glow in her face and a quick beat in her heart as she crossed the
                        parade-ground. Vagabond though he was, he had conquered where princes had
                        failed. Her better judgment told her that she could be nothing to this
                        debonair knight of the road, yet her heart stubbornly  resisted all the arguments that her reason put
                        forth.
                    Colonel Quinnox was pleasant, but he could give Beverly no promise of
                        leniency in regard to Baldos. Instructions had come to him from General
                        Marlanx, and he could not set them aside at will. Her plea that he might
                        once more be assigned to old-time duties found the colonel regretfully
                        obdurate. Baldos could not ride with her again until Marlanx withdrew the
                        order which now obtained. Beverly swallowed her pride and resentment
                        diplomatically, smiled her sweetest upon the distressed colonel, and marched
                        defiantly back to the castle. Down in her rebellious, insulted heart she was
                        concocting all sorts of plans for revenge. Chief among them was the terrible
                        overthrow of the Iron Count. Her wide scope of vengeance even contemplated
                        the destruction of Graustark if her end could be obtained in no other
                        way.
                    Full of these bitter-sweet thoughts she came to the castle doors before she
                        saw who was waiting for her upon the great verandah. As she mounted the
                        steps, a preoccupied frown upon her fair brow, General Marlanx, lean, crafty
                        and confident, advanced to greet her. The early hour was responsible for the
                        bright solitude which marked the place. But few signs of life were in
                        evidence about the castle.
                    She stopped with a sharp exclamation of surprise. Then scorn and indignation
                        rushed in to fill the place of astonishment. She faced the smiling old man
                        with anger in her eyes.
                    "Good morning," he said, extending his hand,  which she did not see. She was wondering how much he
                        had seen and heard at midnight.
                    "I thought tihe troops were massing this morning," she said
                        coldly. "Don't you mass, too?"
                    "There is time enough for that, my dear. I came to have a talk with
                        you --- in private," he said meaningly.
                    "It is sufficiently private here, Count Marlanx. What have you to
                        say to me?"
                    " I want to talk about last night. You were very reckless to do what
                        you did."
                    "Oh, you were playing the spy, then?" she asked
                        scornfully.
                    "An involuntary observer, believe me --- and a jealous one. I had
                        hoped to win the affections of an innocent girl. What I saw last night
                        shocked me beyond expression."
                    "Well, you shouldn't have looked," she retorted,
                        tossing her chin; and the red feather in her hat bobbed angrily.
                    "I am surprised that one as clever as you are could have carried on
                        an amour so incautiously," he said blandly.
                    "What do you mean?"
                    "I mean that I saw everything that occurred."
                    "Well, I'm not ashamed of it," obstinately.
                        "Good-bye, Count Marlanx."
                    "One moment, please. I cannot let you off so easily. What right had
                        you to take that man into your room, a place sacred in the palace of
                        Graustark? Answer me, Miss Calhoun."
                    
                    Beverly drew back in horror and bewilderment.
                    "Into my room?" she gasped.
                    "Let us waste no time in subterfuge. I saw him come from your
                        window, and I saw all that passed between you in the balcony.
                        Love's eyes are keen. What occurred in your chamber I can only
                        ----"
                    "Stop! How dare you say such a thing to me?" she fiercely
                        cried. "You miserable coward! You know he was not in my room. Take
                        it back --- take back every word of that lie!" She was white with
                        passion, cold with terror.
                    "Bah! This is childish. I am not the only one who saw him, my dear.
                        He was in your room --- you were in his arms. It's useless to deny
                        it. And to think that I have spared him from death to have it come to this!
                        You need not look so horrified. Your secret is safe with me. I come to make
                        terms with you. My silence in exchange for your beauty. It's worth
                        it to you. One word from me, you are disgraced and Baldos dies. Come, my
                        fair lady, give me your promise, it's a good bargain for
                        both."
                    Beverly was trembling like a leaf. This phase of his villainy had not
                        occurred to her. She was like a bird trying to avoid the charmed eye of the
                        serpent.
                    "Oh, you --- you miserable wretch!" she cried, hoarse with
                        anger and despair. "What a cur you are! You know you are not
                        speaking the truth. How can you say such things to me? I have never wronged
                        you ----" She was almost in tears, impotent with shame and
                        fear.
                    "It has been a pretty game of love for you and  the excellent Baldos. You have deceived those who
                        love you best and trust you most. What will the princess say when she hears
                        of last night's merry escapade? What will she say when she learns
                        who was hostess to a common guardsman at the midnight hour? It is no wonder
                        that you look terrified. It is for you to say whether she is to know or not.
                        You can bind me to silence. You have lost Baldos. Take me and all that I can
                        give you in his stead, and the world never shall know the truth. You love
                        him, I know, and there is but one way to save him. Say the word and he goes
                        free to the hills; decline and his life is not worth a breath of
                        air."
                    "And pretending to believe this of me, you still ask me to be your
                        wife. What kind of a man are you?" she demanded, scarcely able to
                        speak.
                    "My wife?" he said harshly. "Oh, no. You are not
                        the wife of Baldos," he added significantly.
                    "Good God!" gasped Beverly, crushed by the brutality of it
                        all. "I would sooner die. Would to heaven my father were here, he
                        would shoot you as he would a dog! Oh, how I loathe you! Don't you
                        try to stop me! I shall go to the princess myself. She shall know what
                        manner of beast you are."
                    She was racing up the steps, flaming with anger and shame.
                    "Remember, I can prove what I have said. Beware what you do. I love
                        you so much that I now ask you to become my wife. Think well over it. Your
                        honor and his life! It rests with you," he cried eagerly, following
                        her to the door.
                    
                    "You disgusting old fool," she hissed, turning upon him as
                        she pulled the big brass knocker on the door.
                    "I must have my answer to-night, or you know what will
                        happen," he snarled, but he felt in his heart that he had lost
                        through his eagerness.
                    She flew to Yetive's boudoir, consumed by rage and mortification.
                        Between sobs and feminine maledictions she poured the whole story, in all
                        its ugliness, into the ears of the princess.
                    "Now, Yetive, you have to stand by me in this,' announced
                        the narrator conclusively, her eyes beaming hopefully through her tears.
                    " I cannot prevent General Marlanx from preferring serious charges
                        against Baldos, dear. I know he was not in your room last night. You did not
                        have to tell me that, because I saw you both at the balcony rail."
                        Beverly's face took on such a radiant look of rejoicing that Yetive
                        was amply paid for the surprising and gratifying acknowledgment of a second
                        period of eavesdropping. "You may depend upon me to protect you
                        from Marlanx. He can make it very unpleasant for Baldos, but he shall pay
                        dearly for this insult to you. He has gone too far."
                    "I don't think he has any proof against Baldos, said
                        Beverly, thinking only of the guardsman.
                    "But it is so easy to manufacture evidence, my dear. The Iron Count
                        has set his heart upon having you, and he is not the man to be turned aside
                        easily."
                    "He seems to think he can get wives as easily he gets rid of them, I
                        observe. I was going back to  Washington soon,
                        Yetive, but I'll stay on now and see this thing to the end. He
                        can't scare a Calhoun, no sir-ee. I'll telegraph for my
                        brother Dan to come over here and punch his head to pieces."
                    "Now, now, --- don't be so high and mighty, dear. Let us
                        see how rational we can be," said the princess gently. Whereupon
                        the hot-headed girl from Dixie suspended hostilities and became a very
                        demure young woman. Before long she was confessing timidly, then boldly,
                        that she loved Baldos better than anything in all the world.
                    "I can't help it, Yetive. I know I oughtn't to,
                        but what is there to do when one can't help it? There would be an
                        awful row at home if I married him. Of course, he hasn't asked me.
                        Maybe he won't. In fact, I'm sure he won't. I
                        shan't give him a chance. But if he does ask me I'll just
                        keep putting him off. I've done it before, you know. You see, for a
                        long, long time, I fancied he might be a prince, but he isn't at
                        all. I've had his word for it. He's just an ordinary
                        person --- like --- like --- well, like I am. Only he doesn't look
                        so ordinary. Isn't he handsome, Yetive? And, dear me, he is so
                        impulsive! If he had asked me to jump over the balcony rail with him last
                        night, I believe I would have done it. Wouldn't that have surprised
                        old Marlanx?" Beverly gave a merry laugh. The troubles of the
                        morning seemed to fade way under the warmth of her humor. Yetive sat back
                        and marvelled at the manner in which this blithe young American cast out the
                        "blue devils."
                    "You must not do anything foolish, Beverly," she  cautioned. "Your parents would never
                        forgive me if I allowed you to marry or even to fall in love with any Tom,
                        Dick or Harry over here. Baldos may be the gallant, honest gentleman we
                        believe him to be, but he also may be the worst of adventurers. One can
                        never tell, dear. I wish now that I had not humored you in your plan to
                        bring him to the castle. I'm afraid I have done wrong. You have
                        seen too much of him and --- oh, well, you will be
                        sensible, won't you, dear?" There was real concern in the
                        face of the princess. Beverly kissed her rapturously.
                    "Don't worry about me, Yetive. I know how to take care of
                        myself. Worry about your old Gabriel, if you like, but don't bother
                        your head about me," she cried airily. "Now let's
                        talk about the war. Marlanx won't do anything until he hears from
                        me. What's the use worrying?
                    "Nightfall brought General Marlanx in from the camps outside the
                        gates. He came direct to the castle and boldly sent word to Beverly that he
                        must speak to her at once. She promptly answered that she did not want to
                        see him and would not. Without a moment's hesitation he appealed
                        for an audience with the princess, and it was granted.
                    He proceeded, with irate coolness, to ask how far she believed herself bound
                        to protect the person of Baldos, the guard. He understood that she was under
                        certain obligations to Miss Calhoun and he wanted to be perfectly sure of
                        his position before taking a step which now seemed imperative. Baldos was a
                        spy in the employ of Dawsbergen. He had suffi-  cient proof to warrant his arrest and execution; there were documents,
                        and there was positive knowledge that he had conferred with strangers from
                        time to time, even within the walls of the castle grounds. Marlanx cited
                        instances in which Baldos had been seen talking to a strange old man inside
                        the grounds, and professed to have proof that he had gone so far as to steal
                        away by night to meet men beyond the city walls. He was now ready to seize
                        the guard, but would not do so until he had conferred with his
                        sovereign.
                    "Miss Calhoun tells me that you have made certain proposals to her,
                        Count Marlanx," said Yetive coldly, her eyes upon his hawkish
                        face.
                    "I have asked her to be my wife, your highness."
                    "You have threatened her, Count Marlanx."
                    "She has exposed herself to you? I would not have told what I saw
                        last night."
                    "Would it interest you to know that I saw everything that passed on
                        the balcony last night? You will allow me to say, general, that you have
                        behaved in a most outrageous manner in approaching my guest with such foul
                        proposals. Stop, sir! She has told me everything and I believe her. I
                        believe my own eyes. There is no need to discuss the matter further. You
                        have lost the right to be called a man. For the present I have only to say
                        that you shall be relieved of the command of my army. The man who makes war
                        on women is not fit to serve one. As for Baldos, you are at liberty to
                        prefer the charges. He shall have a fair trial, rest assured."
                    
                    "Your highness, hear me," implored Marlanx, white to the
                        roots of his hair.
                    " I will hear what you have to say when my husband is at my
                        side."
                    "I can but stand condemned, then, your highness, without a hearing.
                        My vindication will come, however. With your permission, I retire to
                        contrive the arrest of this spy. You may depose me, but you cannot ask me to
                        neglect my duty to Graustark. I have tried to save him for Miss
                        Calhoun's sake ----" But her hand was pointing to the
                        door.
                    Ten minutes later Beverly was hearing everything from the lips of the
                        princess, and Marlanx was cursing his way toward the barracks, vengeance in
                        his heart. But a swift messenger from the castle reached the guard-room
                        ahead of him. Colonel Quinnox was reading an official note from the princess
                        when Marlanx strode angrily into the room.
                    "Bring this fellow Baldos to me, Colonel Quinnox," he said,
                        without greeting.
                    "I regret to say that I have but this instant received a message
                        from her highness, commanding me to send him to the castle," said
                        Quinnox, with a smile.
                    "The devil! What foolishness is this?" snarled the Iron
                        Count.
                    "Have a care, sir," said Quinnox stiffly. "It is
                        of the princess you speak."
                    "Bah! I am here to order the man's arrest. It is more
                        important than ----"
                    "Nevertheless, sir, he goes to the castle first. This  note says that I am to disregard any command you may
                        give until further notice."
                    Marlanx fell back amazed and stunned. At this juncture Baldos entered the
                        room. Quinnox handed him an envelope, telling him that it was from the
                        princess and that he was to repair at once to the castle. Baldos glanced at
                        the handwriting, and his face lit up proudly.
                    "I am ready to go, sir," he said, passing the Iron Count
                        with a most disconcerting smile on his face.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIII
                    A SHOT IN THE DARKNESS
                    BALDOS started off at once for the castle, his heart singing. In the darkness
                        of the night he kissed the message which had come to him from "her
                        highness." The envelope had been closed with the official seal of
                        Yetive, Princess of Graustark, and was sacred to the eyes of anyone save the
                        man to whom it was directed. The words it contained were burned deep in his
                        brain:
                    "You are ordered to report for duty in the castle. Come at once. Her
                        highness has sent an official command to Colonel Qauinnox. Count Marlanx has
                        been here. You are not expected to desert until you have seen me. There is
                        an underground passage somewhere.---B."
                    Baldos went alone and swiftly. The note to Colonel Quinnox had been
                        imperative. He was to serve as an inner guard until further orders. Someone,
                        it was reported, had tried to enter MIiss Calhoun's room from the
                        outside during the rainstorm of the previous night, and a special guard was
                        to be stationed near the door. All of this was unknown to Baldos, but he did
                        not ask for any explanations.
                    He was half way to the castle when the sharp report of a gun startled him. A
                        bullet whizzed close  to his ear! Baldos broke
                        into a crouching run, but did not change his course. He knew that the shot
                        was intended for him, and that its mission was to prevent him from reaching
                        the castle. The attendants at the castle door admitted him, panting and
                        excited, and he was taken immediately to the enchanted boudoir of the
                        princess which but few men were fortunate enough to enter. There were three
                        women in the room.
                    "I am here to report, your highness," said he, bowing low
                        before the real princess, with a smile upon his flushed face.
                    "You are prompt," said the princess. "What have
                        you to report, sir?"
                    "That an attempt has just been made to kill a member of the castle
                        guard," he coolly answered.
                    "Impossible!"
                    "I am quite certain of it, your highness. The bullet almost clipped
                        my ear."
                    "Good heavens!" gasped the listeners. Then they eagerly
                        plied him with more agitated questions than he could answer.
                    "And did you not pursue the wretch?" cried the
                        princess.
                    "No, your highness. I was commanded to report to you at once. Only
                        the success of the assassin could have made me --- well, hesitate,"
                        said he calmly. "A soldier has but to obey."
                    "Do you think there was a deliberate attempt to kill you?"
                        asked the Countess Dagmar. Beverly Calhoun was dumb with consternation.
                    
                    "I cannot say, madame. Possibly it was an accidental discharge. One
                        should not make accusations unsupported. If you have no immediate need of my
                        services, your highness, I will ask you to grant me leave of absence for
                        half an hour. I have a peculiar longing to investigate." There was
                        a determined gleam in his eyes.
                    "No, no!" cried Beverly. "Don't you dare
                        to go out there again. You are to stay right here in the castle, sir. We
                        have something else for you to do. It was that awful old Marlanx who shot at
                        you. He ----"
                    "I left General Marlanx in Colonel Quinnox's quarters, Miss
                        Calhoun," interposed Baldos grimly. "He could not have
                        fired the shot. For two or three nights, your highness, I have been followed
                        and dogged with humiliating persistence by two men wearing the uniforms of
                        castle guards. They do not sleep at the barracks. May I ask what I have done
                        to be submitted to such treatment?" There was a trace of poorly
                        concealed indignation in his voice.
                    "I assure you that this is news to me," said Yetive in
                        amazement.
                    "I am being watched as if I were a common thief," he went
                        on boldly. "These men are not your agents; they are not the agents
                        of Graustrk. May I be permitted to say that they are spies set upon me by a
                        man who has an object in disgracing me? Who that man is, I leave to your
                        royal conjecture."
                    "Marlanx?"
                    "Yes, your highness. He bears me a deadly  grudge and yet he fears me. I know full well that he
                        and his agents have built a strong case against me. They are almost ready to
                        close in upon me, and they will have false evidence so craftily prepared
                        that even my truest friends may doubt my loyalty to you and to the cause I
                        serve. Before God, I have been true to my oath. I am loyal to Graustark. It
                        was a sorry day when I left the valley and ----"
                    "Oh!" cried Beverly piteously. "Don't say
                        that."
                    "Alas, Miss Calhoun, it is true," said he sadly.
                        "I am penned up here where I cannot fight back. Treason is laid
                        against me. But, beyond all this, I have permitted my loyalty to mislead my
                        ambition. I have aspired to something I can cherish but never possess.
                        Better that I never should have tasted of the unattainable than to have the
                        cup withdrawn just as its sweetness begins to intoxicate."
                    He stood before them, pale with suppressed emotion. The women of Graustark
                        looked involuntarily at Beverly, who sat cold and voiceless, staring at the
                        face of the guard. She knew what he meant; she knew that something was
                        expected of her. A word from her and he would understand that he had not
                        tasted of the unattainable. In one brief moment she saw that she had
                        deliberately led him on, that she had encouraged him, that she actually had
                        proffered him the cup from which he had begun to sip the bitterness. Pride
                        and love were waging a conflict in this hapless southern girl's
                        heart. But she was silent. She could not say the word.
                    
                    "I think I know what you mean, Baldos," said Yetive, seeing
                        that Beverly would not intervene. "We are sorry. No one trusts to
                        your honor more than I do. My husband believes in you. I will confess that
                        you are to be arrested as a spy to-morrow. To-night you are to serve as a
                        guard in the castle. This should prove to you that I have unbounded faith in
                        you. Moreover, I believe in you to the extent that I should not be afraid to
                        trust you if you were to go out into the world with every secret which we
                        possess. You came here under a peculiar stress of circumstanes, not wholly
                        of your own volition. Believe me, I am your friend."
                    "I shall revere your highness forever for those words,"
                        said he simply. His eyes went hungrily to Beverly's averted face,
                        and then assumed a careless gleam which indicated that he had resigned
                        himself to the inevitable.
                    "I am constrained to ask you one question, sir," went on
                        the princess. "You are not the common goat-hunter you assume. Will
                        you tell me in confidence who you really are?" The others held
                        their breath. He hesitated for a moment.
                    "Will it suffice if I say that I am an unfortunate friend and
                        advocate of Prince Dantan? I have risked everything for his sake and I fear
                        I have lost everything. I have failed to be of service to him, but through
                        no fault of mine. Fate has been against me."
                    "You are Christobal," cried Dagmar eagerly. He gave her a
                        startled glance, but offered no denial 
                        Beverly's face was a study. If he were Christobal, then what of the
                        game-warden's daughter?
                    "We shall question you no further," said Yetive. You
                        enlisted to serve Miss Calhoun. It is for her to command you while you are
                        here. May God be with you to the end. Miss Calhoun, will you tell him what
                        his duties are for to-night? Come, my dear."
                    Yetive and Dagmar walked slowly from the room, leaving Beverly and her guard
                        alone.
                    "I am at your service, Miss Calhoun," he said easily. His
                        apparent indifference stung her into womanly revolt.
                    "I was a fool last night," she said abruptly.
                    "No; I was the fool. I have been the fool from the beginning. You
                        shall not blame yourself, for I do not blame you. It has been a sweet
                        comedy, a summer pastime. Forget what I may have said to you last night,
                        forget what my eyes may have said for weeks and weeks."
                    "I shall never forget," said she. "You deserve the
                        best in the world. Would that I could give it to you. You have braved many
                        dangers for my sake. I shall not forget. Do you know that we were watched
                        last night?"
                    "Watched?" he cried incredulously. "Oh, fool that
                        I am! I might have known. And I have subjected you to --- to ---
                        don't tell me that harsh things have been said to you, Miss
                        Calhoun!" He was deeply disturbed.
                    "General Marlanx saw you. He has threatened me, Baldos,
                        ----"
                    
                    "I will kill him! What do I care for the consequences? He shall pay
                        dearly for ---"
                    "Stop! Where are you going? You are to remain here, sir, and take
                        your commands from me. I don't want you to kill him.
                        They'd hang you or something just as bad. He's going to be
                        punished, never fear!" Baldos smiled in spite of his dismay. It was
                        impossible to face this confident young champion in petticoats without
                        catching her enthusiasm. "What have you done with --- with that
                        rose?" she asked suddenly, flushing and diffident. Her eyes
                        glistened with embarrassment.
                    "It lies next my heart. I love it," he said bravely.
                    "I think I'll command you to return it to me,"
                        vaguely.
                    "A command to be disobeyed. It is in exchange for my
                        feather," he smiled confidently.
                    "Well, of course, if you are going to be mean about --- Now, let me
                        see," she said confusedly; "what are your duties for
                        to-night? You are to stand guard in the corridor. Once in awhile you will go
                        out upon the balcony and take a look. You see, I am afraid of someone. Oh,
                        Baldos, what's the use of my trifling like this? You are to escape
                        from Edelweiss to-night. That is the whole plan --- the whole idea in a
                        nutshell. Don't look like that. Don't you want to
                        go?" Now she was trembling with excitement.
                    "I do not want to leave you," he cried eagerly.
                        "It would be cowardly. Marlanx would understand that you gave aid
                        and sanction. You would be left to  face the
                        charges he would make. Don't you see, Beverly? You would be
                        implicated --- you would be accused. Why did you not let me kill him? No; I
                        will not go!" Neither noticed the name by which he had called
                        her.
                    "But I insist," she cried weakly. "You must go
                        away from me. I --- I command you to ---"
                    "Is it because you want to drive me out of your life
                        forever?" he demanded, sudden understanding coming to him.
                    "Don't put it that way," she murmured.
                    "Is it because you care for me that you want me to go?" he
                        insisted, drawing near. "Is it because you fear the love I bear for
                        you?"
                    "Love? You don't really --- Stop! Remember where you are,
                        sir! You must not go on with it, Baldos. Don't come a step nearer.
                        Do go to-night! It is for the best. I have been awfully wicked in letting it
                        run on as it has. Forgive me, please forgive me," she pleaded. He
                        drew back, pale and hurt. A great dignity settled upon his face. His dark
                        eyes crushed her with their quiet scorn.
                    "I understand, Miss Calhoun. The play is over. You will find the
                        luckless vagabond a gentleman, after all. You ask me to desert the cause I
                        serve. That is enough. I shall go to-night."
                    The girl was near to surrender. Had it not been for the persistent fear that
                        her proud old father might suffer from her wilfulness, she would have thrown
                        down the barrier and risked everything in the choice.  Her heart was crying out hungrily for the love this
                        tall, mysterious soldier of fortune.
                    "It is best," she murmured finally. Later on she was to
                        know the meaning of the peculiar smile he gave her.
                    "I go because you dismiss me, not because I fear an enemy. If you
                        choose to remember me at all, be just enough to believe that I am not a
                        shameless coward."
                    "You are brave and true and good, and I am a miserable, deceitful
                        wretch," she lamented. "You will seek Ravone and the
                        others?"
                    "Yes. They are my friends. They love my poverty. And now, may it
                        please your highness, when am I to go forth and in what garb? I should no
                        longer wear the honest uniform of a Graustaark guard."
                    "Leave it to me. Everything shall be arranged. You will be discreet?
                        No one is to know that I am your ----"
                    "Rest assured, Miss Calhoun. I have a close mouth," and he
                        smiled contemptuously.
                    "I agree with you," said she regretfully. "You
                        know how to hold your tongue." He laughed harshly. "For
                        once in a way, will you answer question?"
                    "I will not promise.'
                    "You say that you are Dantan's friend. Is it true that he
                        is to marry the daughter of the Duke of Matz, Countess
                        Iolanda?"
                    "It has been so reported."
                    
                    "Is she beautiful?"
                    "Yes; exceedingly."
                    "But is he to marry her?" she insisted, she knew not
                        why.
                    "How should I know, your highness?"
                    " If you call me 'your highness' again
                        I'll despise you," she flared miserably. "Another
                        question. Is it true that the young Duke Christobal fled because his father
                        objected to his marriage with a game-warden's
                        daughter?"
                    "I have never heard so," with a touch of hauteur.
                    "Does he know that the girl is dead?" she asked cruelly.
                        Baldos did not answer for a long time. He stared at her steadily, his eyes
                        expressing no emotion from which she could judge him.
                    "I think he is ignorant of that calamity, Miss Calhoun," he
                        said. "With your permission, I shall withdraw. There is nothing to
                        be gained by delay." It was such a palpable affront that she shrank
                        within herself and could have cried.
                    Without answering, she walked unsteadily to the window and looked out into
                        the night. A mist came into her eyes. For many minutes she remained there,
                        striving to regain control of her emotions. All this tine she knew that he
                        was standing just where she had left him, like a statue, awaiting her
                        command. At last she faced him resolutely.
                    "You will receive instructions as to your duties here from the guard
                        at the stairs. When you hear the hall clock strike the hour of two in the
                        morning go into the chapel, but do not let anyone see you or  suspect. You know where it is. The door will be
                        unlocked."
                    "Am I not to see you again?" he asked, and she did not
                        think him properly depressed.
                    "Yes," she answered, after a pause that seemed like an
                        eternity, and he went quietly, silently away.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIV
                    BENEATH THE GROUND
                    WHILE Baldos was standing guard in the long, lofty hallway the Iron Count was
                        busy with the machinations which were calculated to result in a startling
                        upheaval with the break of a new day. He prepared and swore to the charges
                        preferred against Baldos. They were despatched to the princess for her
                        perusal in the morning. Then he set about preparing the vilest accusations
                        against Beverly Calhoun. In his own handwriting and over his own signature
                        he charged her with complicity in the betrayal of Graustark, influenced by
                        the desires of the lover who masqueraded as her protg. At some length he
                        dwelt upon the well-laid plot of the spy and his accomplice. He told of
                        their secret meetings, their outrages against the dignity of the court, and
                        their unmistakable animosity toward Graustark. For each and every count in
                        his vicious indictment against the girl he professed to have absolute proof
                        by means of more than one reputable witness.
                    It was not the design of Marlanx to present this document to the princess and
                        her cabinet. He knew  full well that it would
                        meet the fate it deserved. It was intended for the eyes of Beverly Calhoun
                        alone. By means of the vile accusations, false though they were, he hoped to
                        terrorize her into submission. He longed to possess this lithe, beautiful
                        creature from over the sea. In all his life he had not hungered for anything
                        as he now craved Beverly Calhoun. He saw that his position in the army was
                        rendered insecure by the events of the last day. A bold, vicious stroke was
                        his only means for securing the prize he longed for more than he longed for
                        honor and fame.
                    Restless and enraged, consumed by jealousy and fear, he hung about the castle
                        grounds long after he had drawn the diabolical charges. He knew that Baldos
                        was inside the castle, favored, while he, a noble of the realm, was
                        relegated to ignominy and the promise of degradation. Encamped outside the
                        city walls the army lay without a leader. Each hour saw the numbers
                        augmented by the arrival of reserve from the districts of the principality.
                        His place was out there with the staff. Yet he could not drag himself away
                        from the charmed circle in which his prey was sleeping. Morose and grim, he
                        anxiously paced to and fro in an obscure corner of the grounds.
                    "What keeps the scoundrel?" he said to himself angrily.
                    Presently, a villainous looking man dressed in uniform of the guards,
                        stealthily approached. "I missed him, general, but I will get him
                        the next time growled the man.
                    "Curse you for a fool!" hissed Marlanx through  his teeth. As another hireling came up.
                        "What have you got to say?"
                    The man reported that Baldos had been seen on the balcony alone, evidently on
                        watch.
                    Marlanx ground his teeth and his blood stormed his reason. "The job
                        must be done to-night. You have your instructions. Capture him if possible;
                        but if necessary, kill him. You know your fate, if you fail."
                        Marlanx actually grinned at the thought of the punishment he would mete out
                        to them. "Now be off!"
                    Rashly he made his way to the castle front. A bright moon cast its mellow
                        glow over the mass of stone outlined against the western sky. For an hour he
                        glowered in the shade of the trees, giving but slight heed to the guards who
                        passed from time to time. His eyes never left the enchanted balcony.
                    At last he saw the man. Baldos came from the door at the end of the balcony,
                        paced the full length in the moonlight, paused for a moment near Beverly
                        Calhoun's window and then disappeared through the the door that had
                        afforded him egress.
                    Inside the dark castle the clock at the end of the hall melodiously boomed
                        the hour of two. Dead quiet followed the soft echoes of the gong. A tall
                        figure stealthily opened the door to Yetive's chapel and stepped
                        inside. There was a streak of moon-light through the clear window at the far
                        end of the room. Baldos, his heart beating rapidly, stood still a moment,
                        awaiting the next move in the game. The ghost-like figure of a woman
                        suddenly stood  before him in the path of the
                        moonbeam, a hooded figure in dark robes. He started as if confronted by the
                        supernatural.
                    "Come," came in an agitated whisper, and he stepped to the
                        side of the phantom. She turned and the moonlight fell upon the face of
                        Beverly Calhoun. "Don't speak. Follow me as quickly as you
                        can."
                    He grasped her arm, bringing her to a standstill.
                    "I have changed my mind," he whispered in her ear.
                        "Do you think I will run away and leave you to shoulder the blame
                        for all this? On the balcony near your window an hour ago I
                        ----"
                    "It doesn't make any difference," she argued.
                        "You have to go. I want you to go. If you knew just how I feel
                        toward you you would go without murmur."
                    "You mean that you hate me," he groaned.
                    "I wouldn't be so unkind as to say that," she
                        fluttered. "I don't know who you are. Come; we
                        can't delay a minute. I have a key to the gate at the other end of
                        the passage and I know where the secret panel is located. Hush! It
                        doesn't matter where I got the key. See! See how easy it
                        is?"
                    He felt her tense little fingers in the dark searching for his. Their hands
                        were icy cold when the clasp came. Together they stood in a niche of the
                        wall near the chancel rail. It was dark and a cold draft of air blew across
                        their faces. He could see, but there was proof enough that she had opened
                        the secret panel in the wall, and that the damp, chill  air came from the underground passage, which led to a
                        point outside the city walls.
                    "You go first," she whispered nervously.
                        "I'm afraid. There is a lantern on the steps and I have
                        some matches. We'll light it as soon as --- Oh, what was
                        that?"
                    "Don't be frightened," he said. "I think
                        it was a rat."
                    "Good gracious!" she gasped. "I wouldn't
                        go in there for the world."
                    "Do you mean to say that you intended to do so?" he asked
                        eagerly.
                    "Certainly. Someone has to return the key to the outer gate. Oh, I
                        suppose I'll have to go in. You'll keep them off,
                        won't you?" plaintively. He was smiling in the darkness,
                        thinking what a dear, whimsical thing she was.
                    "With my life," he said softly.
                    "They're ten times worse than lions," she
                        announced.
                    "You must not forget that you return alone," he said
                        triumphantly.
                    "But I'll have the lantern going full blast," she
                        said, and then allowed him to lead her into the narrow passageway. She
                        closed the panel and then felt about with her foot until it located the
                        lantern. In a minute they had a light. "Now, don't be
                        afraid," she said encouragingly. He laughed in pure delight; she
                        misunderstood his mirth and was conscious of a new and an almost unendurable
                        pang. He was filled with exhilaration over the prospect of escape! Some-  how she felt an impulse to throw her arms
                        about him and drag him back into the chapel, in spite of the ghost of the
                        game-warden's daughter.
                    "What is to prevent me from taking you with me?" he said
                        intensely, a mighty longing in his breast. She laughed but drew back
                        uneasily.
                    "And live unhappily ever afterward?" said she.
                        "Oh, dear me! Isn't this a funny proceeding? Just think of
                        me, Beverly Calhoun, being mixed up in schemes and plots and intrigues and
                        all that. It seems like a great big dream. And that reminds me: you will
                        find a raincoat at the foot of the steps. I couldn't get other
                        clothes for you, so you'll have wear the uniform. There's
                        a stiff hat of Mr. Lorry's also. You've no idea how
                        difficult it is for a girl to collect clothes for a man. There
                        doesn't seem to be any real excuse for it, you know. Goodness, it
                        looks black ahead there, doesn't it? I hate underground things.
                        They're so damp and all that. How far is it, do you suppose, to the
                        door in the wall?" She was chattering on, simply to keep up her
                        courage and to make her fairest show of composure.
                    "It's a little more than three hundred yards," he
                        replied. They were advancing through the low, narrow stone-lined passage.
                        She steadfastly ignored the hand he held back for support. It was not a
                        pleasant place, this underground way to the outside world. The walls were
                        damp and mouldy; the odor of the rank earth assailed the nostrils; the air
                        was chill and deathlike.
                    "How do you know?" she demanded quickly.
                    
                    "I have traversed the passage before, Miss Calhoun," he
                        replied. She stopped like one paralyzed, her eyes wide and incredulous.
                        "Franz was my guide from the outer gate into the chapel. It is easy
                        enough to get outside the walls, but extremely difficult to
                        return," he went on easily.
                    "You mean to say that you have been in and out by way of this
                        passage? Then, what was your object, sir?" she demanded
                        sternly.
                    "My desire to communicate with friends who could not enter the city.
                        Will it interest you if I say that the particular object of my concern was a
                        young woman?"
                    She gasped and was stubbornly silent for a long time. Bitter resentment
                        filled her soul, bitter disappointment in this young man. "A young
                        woman!" he had said, oh, so insolently. There could be but one
                        inference, one conclusion. The realization of it settled one point in her
                        mind forever.
                    "It wouldn't interest me in the least. I don't
                        even care who she was. Permit me to wish you much joy with her. Why
                        don't you go on?" irritably, forgetting that it was she
                        who delayed progress. His smile was invisible in the blackness above the
                        lantern. There were no words spoken until after they had reached the little
                        door in the wall.
                    Here the passage was wider. There were casks and chests on the floor,
                        evidently containing articles that required instant removal from Edelweiss
                        in case of an emergency.
                    
                    "Who was that woman?" she asked at last. The key to the
                        door was in the nervous little hand.
                    "One very near and dear to me, Miss Calhoun. That's all I
                        can say at this time."
                    "Well, this is the only time you will have the chance," she
                        cried loftily. "Here we part. Hush!" she whispered,
                        involuntarily grasping his arm. "I think I heard a step. Can anyone
                        be following us?" They stopped and listened. It was as still as a
                        tomb.
                    "It must be the same old rat," he answered jokingly. She
                        was too nervous for any plesantries, and releasing her hold on his arm, said
                        timidly, "Good- bye!"
                    "Am I to go in this manner? Have you no kind word for me? I love you
                        better than my soul. It is of small consequence to you, I know, but I crave
                        one forgiving word. It may be the last." He clasped her hand and
                        she did not withdraw it. Her lips were trembling, but her eyes were brave
                        and obstinate. Suddenly she sat down upon one of the chests. If he had not
                        told her of the other woman!
                    "Forgive me instead, for all that I have brought you to,"
                        she murmured. "It was all my fault. I shall never forget you or
                        forgive myself. I --- I am going back to Washin'ton immediately. I
                        can't bear to stay here now. Good-bye, and God bless you. Do --- do
                        you think we shall ever see each other again?" Unconsciously she
                        was clinging to his hand. The were tears in the gray eyes that looked
                        pathetically up into his. She was very dear and enchanting,  down there in the grewsome passageway with the fitful
                        rays of the lantern lighting her face. Only the strictest self-control kept
                        him from seizing her in his arms, for something told him that she would have
                        surrendered.
                    "This is the end, I fear," he said, with grim persistence.
                        She caught her breath in half a sob. Then she arose resolutely, although her
                        knees trembled shamelessly.
                    "WeIll, then, good-bye," she said very steadily.
                        "You are free to go where and to whom you like. Think of me once in
                        awhile, Baldos. Here's the key. Hurry! I --- I can't stand
                        it much longer!" She was ready to break down and he saw it, but he
                        made no sign.
                    Turning the key in the rusty lock, he cautiously opened the door. The moonlit
                        world lay beyond. A warm, intoxicating breath of fresh air came in upon
                        them. He suddenly stooped and kissed her hand.
                    "Forgive me for having annoyed you with my poor love," he
                        said, as he stood in the door, looking into the night beyond.
                    "All --- all right," she choked out as she started to close
                        the door after him.
                    "Halt! You are our prisoner!"
                    The words rang out sharply in the silence of the night. Instinctively,
                        Beverly made an attempt to close the door; but she was too late. Two burly,
                        villainous looking men, sword in hand, blocked the exit and advanced upon
                        them.
                    
                    "Back! Back!" Baldos shouted to Beverly, drawing his
                        sword.
                    Like a flash, she picked up the lantern and sprang out of his way. Capture or
                        worse seemed certain; but her heart did not fail her.
                    "Put up your sword! You are under arrest!" came from the
                        foremost of the two. He had heard enough of Baldos's skill with the
                        sword to hope that the ruse might be successful and that he would surrender
                        peaceably to numbers. The men's instructions were to take their
                        quarry alive if possible. The reward for the man, living, exceeded that for
                        him dead.
                    Baldos instantly recognized them as spies employed by Marlanx. They had been
                        dogging his footsteps for days and even had tried to murder him. The desire
                        for vengeance was working like madness in his blood. He was overjoyed at
                        having them at the point of his sword. Beverly's presence
                        vouchsafed that he would show little mercy.
                    "Arrest me, you cowardly curs!" he exclaimed.
                        "Never!" With a spring to one side, he quickly overturned
                        one of the casks and pushing it in front of him, it served as a rolling
                        bulwark, preventing a joint attack.
                    "You first!" he cried coolly, as his sword met that of the
                        leader. The unhappy wretch was no match for the finest swordsman in
                        Graustark. He made a few desperate attempts to ward off his inevitable fate,
                        calling loudly for his comrade to aid him. The latter was eager enough, but
                        Baldos strategic roll of the cask effectively prevented him  from taking a hand. With a vicious thrust, the blade
                        of the goat-hunter tore clean through the man's chest and touched
                        the wall behind.
                    "One!" cried Baldos, gloating in the chance that had come
                        to him. The man gasped and fell. He was none too quick in withdrawing his
                        dripping weapon, for the second man was over the obstacle and upon him.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXV
                    THE VALOR OF THE SOUTH
                    HOLD the lantern higher, Bev ----" In the fury of the fight, he
                        remembered the risk and importance of not mentioing her name, and stopped
                        short. He was fighting fast but warily, for he realized that his present
                        adversary was no mean one. As the swords played back and forth in fierce
                        thrusts and parries, he spoke assuringly to Beverly:
                        "Don't be frightened! As soon as I finish with this
                        fellow, we will go on! Ah! Bravo! Well parried, my man! How the deuce could
                        such a swordsman as you become a cutthroat of Marlanx?"
                    Beverly had been standing still all this time holding the light high above
                        her head, according to her lover's orders, for she knew now that
                        such he was and that she loved him with all her heart. She was a weird
                        picture standing there as she watched Baldos fighting for their lives, her
                        beautiful face deathlike in its pallor. Not a cry escaped her lips, as the
                        sword-blades swished and clashed; she could hear the deep breathing of the
                        combatants in that tomb-like passage.
                    
                    Suddenly she started and listened keenly. From behind her, back there in the
                        darkness, hurried footsteps were unmistakably approaching. What she had
                        heard, then, was not the scurrying of a rat. Some one was following them. A
                        terrible anguish seized her. Louder and nearer came the heavy steps.
                        "Oh, my God! Baldos!" she screamed in terror.
                        "Another is coming!"
                    "Have no fear, dear one!" he sung out gaily. His voice was
                        infinitely more cheerful than he felt, for he realized only too well the
                        desperate situation; he was penned in and forced to meet an attack from
                        front and rear. He fell upon his assailant with re-doubled fury, aiming to
                        finish him before the newcomer could give aid.
                    From out of the gloom came a fiendish laugh. Instantly, the dark figure of a
                        man appeared, his face completely hidden by a broad slouch hat and the long
                        cloak which enveloped him. A sardonic voice hissed, "Trapped at
                        last! My lady and her lover thought to escape, did they!" The voice
                        was unfamiliar, but the atmosphere seemed charged with Marlanx.
                        "Kill him, Zem!" he shouted. "Don't let
                        him escape you! I will take care of the little witch, never fear!"
                        He clutched at the girl and tried to draw her to him.
                    "Marlanx! By all the gods!" cried Baldos in despair. He had
                        wounded his man several times, though not seriously. He dared not turn to
                        Beverly's aid.
                    The scene was thrilling, grewsome. Within this narrow, dimly-lighted
                        underground passage, with its  musty walls
                        sweating with dampness and thick with the tangled meshes of the
                        spider's web, a brave girl and her lover struggled and fought back
                        to back.
                    To her dismay, Beverly saw the point of a sword at her throat.
                    "Out of the way, girl," the man in the cloak snarled,
                        furious at her resistance. "You die as well as your lover unless
                        you surrender. He cannot escape me."
                    "And if I refuse," cried the girl, trying desperately to
                        gain time.
                    "I will drive my blade through your heart and tell the world it was
                        the deed of your lover."
                    Baldos groaned. His adversary, encouraged by the change in the situation,
                        pressed him sorely.
                    "Don't you dare to touch me, Count Marlanx. I know
                        you!" she hissed. "I know what you would do with me. It is
                        not for Graustark that you seek his life."
                    The sword came nearer. The words died in her throat. She grew faint. Terror
                        paralyzed her. Suddenly, her heart gave a great thump of joy. The
                        resourcefulness of the trapped was surging to her relief. The valor of the
                        South leaped into life. The exhilaration of conflict beat down all her
                        fears. "Take away that sword, then, please," she cried,
                        her voice trembling, but not with terror now; it was exultation.
                        "Will you promise to spare his life? Will you swear to let him go,
                        if I ---"
                    "No, no, never! God forbid!" implored Baldos.
                    "Ha, ha!" chuckled the man in the cloak. "Spare
                             his life! Oh, yes; after my master has
                        revelled in your charms. How do you like that, my handsome
                        goat-hunter?"
                    "You infernal scoundrel! I'll settle you yet!"
                        Baldos fairly fumed with rage. Gathering himself together for a final
                        effort, he rushed madly on his rapidly-weakening antagonist.
                    "Baldos!" she cried hopelessly and in a tone of
                        resignation. "I must do it! It is the only way!"
                    The man in the cloak as well as Baldos was deceived by the girl's
                        cry. He immediately lowered his sword. The lantern dropped from
                        Beverly's hands and clattered to the floor. At the same instant she
                        drew from her pocket her revolver, which she had placed there before leaving
                        the castle, and fired point blank at him. The report sounded like a thunder
                        clap in their ears. It was followed quickly by a sharp cry and imprecation
                        from the lips of her persecutor, who fell, striking his head with a terrible
                        force on the stones.
                    Simultaneously, there was a groan and the noise of a limp body slipping to
                        the ground, and, Baldos, victor at last, turned in fear and trembling to
                        find Beverly standing unhurt staring at the black mass at her feet.
                    "Thank God! You are safe!" Grasping her hand he led her out
                        of the darkness into the moonlight.
                    Not a word was spoken as they ran swiftly on until they reached a little
                        clump of trees, not far from one of the gates. Here Baldos gently released
                        her hand. She was panting for breath; but he re-  alized she must not be allowed to risk a
                        moment's delay. She must pass the sentry at once.
                    "Have you the watchword?" he eagerly asked.
                    "Watchword?" she repeated feebly.
                    "Yes, the countersign for the night. It is Ganlook. Keep your face
                        well covered with your hood. Advance boldly to the gates and give the word.
                        There will be no trouble. Tihe guard is used to pleasure seekers returning
                        at all hours of night."
                    "Is he dead?" she asked timorously, returning to the scene
                        of horror.
                    "Only wounded, I think, as are the other men, though they all
                        deserve death."
                    He went with her as close to the gate as he thought safe. Taking her hand he
                        kissed it fervently. "Good-bye! It won't be for
                        long!" and disappeared.
                    She stood still and lifeless, staring after him, for ages, it seemed. He was
                        gone. Gone forever, no doubt. Her eyes grew wilder and wilder with the pity
                        of it all. Pride fled incontinently. She longed to call him back. Then it
                        occurred to her that he was hurrying off to that other woman. No, he said he
                        would return. She must be brave, true to hersself, whatever happened. She
                        marched boldly up to gate, gave the countersign and passed through, not
                        heeding the curious glances cast upon her by sentry; turned into the castle,
                        up the grand staircase, and fled to the princess's bed-chamber.
                    Beverly, trembling and sobbing, threw herself in  the arms of the princess. Incoherently, she related all that had
                        happened, then swooned.
                    After she had been restored, the promise of Yetive to protect her, whatever
                        happened, comforted her somewhat.
                    "It must have been Marlanx," moaned Beverly.
                    "Who else could it have been?" replied the princess, who
                        was visibly excited.
                    Summoning all her courage, she went on: "First, we must find out if
                        he is badly hurt. We'll trust to luck. Cheer up!" She
                        touched a bell. There came a knock at the door. A guard was told to enter.
                        "Ellos," she exclaimed, "did you hear a shot
                        fired a short time ago?"
                    "I thought I did, your highness, but was not sure."
                    "Baldos, the guard, was escaping by the secret passage,"
                        continued the princess, a wonderful inspiration coming to her rescue.
                        "He passed through the chapel. Miss Calhoun was there. Alone, and
                        single-handed, she tried to prevent him. It was her duty. He refused to obey
                        her command to stop and she allowed him into the tunnel and fired at him.
                        I'm afraid you are too late to capture him, but you may ----, Oh,
                        Beverly, how plucky you were to follow him! Go quickly, Ellos! Search the
                        tunnel and report at once." As the guard saluted, with wonder,
                        admiration and unbelief, he saw the two conspirators locked in each
                        other's arms.
                    Presently he returned and reported that the guards could find no trace of
                        anyone in the tunnel,  but that they found
                        blood on the floor near the exit and that the door was wide open.
                    The two girls looked at each other in amazement. They were dumbfounded, but a
                        great relief was glowing in their eyes.
                    "Ellos," inquired the princess, considerably less agitated,
                        "does any one else know of this?"
                    "No, your highness, there was no one on guard but Max, Baldos, and
                        myself."
                    "Well, for the present, no one else must know of his flight. Do you
                        understand? Not a word to any one. I, myself, will explain when the proper
                        time comes. You and Max have been very careless, but I suppose you should
                        not be punished. He has tricked us all. Send Max to me at
                        once."
                    "Yes, your highness," said Ellos, and he went away; with
                        his head swimming. Max, the other guard, received like orders and then the
                        two young women sank limply upon a divan.
                    "Oh, how clever you are, Yetive," came from the American
                        girl. "But what next?"
                    "We may expect to hear something disagreeable from Count Marlanx, my
                        dear," murmured the perplexed, but confident princess,
                        "but I think we have the game in our own hands, as you would say in
                        America."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVI
                    THE DEGRADATION OF MARLANX
                    AUNT FANNY, what is that white thing sticking under the window?"
                        demanded Beverly late the next morning. She was sitting with her face to the
                        windows while the old negress dressed her hair.
                    "Looks lak a love letteh, Miss Bev'ly," was the
                        answer, as Aunt Fanny gingerly placed an envelope in her mistress's
                        hand. Beverly looked at it in amazement. It was unmistakably a letter,
                        addressed to her, which had been left at her window some time in the night.
                        Her heart gave a thump and she went red with anticipated pleasure. With
                        eager fingers she tore open the envelope. The first glance at the contents
                        brought disappointment to her face. The missive as from Count Marlanx; but
                        it was a relief to find that he was very much alive and kicking. As she read
                        on, there came a look of perplexity which was succeeded by burning
                        indignation. The man in the cloak was preparing to strike.
                    'Your secret is mine. I know all that happened in the chapel and
                        underground passage. You have betrayed Graustark in aiding this man to
                        escape. The plot was cleverly  executed, but
                        you counted without the jealous eye of love. You can save yourself and your
                        honor, and perhaps your princesss, but the conditions are mine. This time
                        there can be no trifling. I want you to treat me fairly. God help you if you
                        refuse. Give me the answer I want and your secet is safe. I will sheld you
                        with my life. At eleven o'clock I shall come to see you. I have in
                        my possession a document that will influence you. You will do well to keep a
                        close mouth until you have seen this paper."
                    This alarming note was all that was needed to restore fire to the lagging
                        blood of the American girl. Its effect was decidedly contrary to that which
                        Marlanx must have anticipated. Instead of collapsig, Beverly sprang to her
                        feet with energy and life in every fiber. Her eyes were flashing brightly,
                        her body quivering with the sensations of battle.
                    "That awful old wretch! " she cried, to Aunt
                        Fanny's amazement. "He in the meanest human being in all
                        the world. But he's making the mistake of his life, isn't
                        he, Aunt Fanny? Oh, of course you don't knnw what it is, so never
                        mind. We've got a surprise for him. I'll see him at eleven
                        o'clock, and then ----" she smiled quite benignly at the
                        thought of what she was going to say to him. Beverly felt very secure in the
                        shadow of the princess.
                    A clatter of horses' hoofs on the parade-ground drew her to the
                        balcony. What she saw brought joy to her heart. Lorry and Anguish, muddy and
                        disheveled, were dismounting before the castle.
                    "Ah, this is joy! Now there are three good Americans here.
                        I'm not afraid," she said bravely. Aunt Fanny nodded her
                        head in approval, although she did not know what it was all about. Curiosity
                        more than alarm made Beverly eager to see the document which  old Marlanx held in reserve for her. She determined
                        to met him at eleven.
                    A message from the princess announced the unexpected return of the two
                        Americans. She said they were (to use Harry Anguish's own
                        expression) "beastly near starvation " and clamored for
                        substantial breakfasts. Beverly was urged to join them and to hear the
                        latest news from the frontier.
                    Lorry and Anguish were full of the excitement on which they had lived for
                        many hours. They had found evidence of raids by the Dawsbergen scouts and
                        had even caught sight of a small band of fleeing horsemen. Lorry reluctantly
                        admitted that Gabriel's army seemed loyal to him and that there was
                        small hope of a conflict being averted, as he had surmised, through the
                        defection of the people. He was surprised but not dismayed when Yetive told
                        him certain portions of the story in regard to Marlanx; and, by no means
                        averse to seeing the old man relegated to the back-ground, heartily endorsed
                        the step taken by his wife. He was fair enough, however, to promise the
                        general a chance to speak in his own defense, if he so desired. He had this
                        in view when he requested Marlanx to come to the castle at eleven
                        o'clock for consultation.
                    "Gabriel is devoting most of his energy now to hunting that poor
                        Dantan into his grave," said Anguish. "I believe
                        he'd rather kill his half-brother than conquer Graustark. Why, the
                        inhuman monster has set himself to the task of obliterating everything that
                        reminds him of Dantan. We learned from spies down there that he issued an
                        order for the death  of Dantan's
                        sister, a pretty young thing named Candace, because he believed she was
                        secretly aiding her fugitive brother. She escaped from the palace in Serros
                        a week ago, and no one knows what has become of her. There's a
                        report that she was actually killed, and that the story of her flight is a
                        mere blind on the part of Gabriel."
                    "He would do anything," cried Yetive. "Poor child;
                        they say she is like her English mother and is charming."
                    "That would set Gabriel against her, I fancy," went on
                        Anguish. "And, by the way, Miss Calhoun, we heard something
                        definite about your friend, Prince Dantan. It is pretty well settled that he
                        isn't Baldos of the guard. Dantan was seen two days ago by Captain
                        Dangloss's men. He was in the Dawsbergen pass and they talked with
                        him and his men. There was no mistake this time. The poor, half-starved chap
                        confessed to being the prince and begged for food for himself and his
                        followers."
                    "I tried to find him, and, failing in that, left word in the pass
                        that if he would but cast his lot with us in this trouble we soon would
                        restore him to his throne," said Lorry. "He may accept and
                        we shall have him turning up here some day, hungry for revenge. And now, my
                        dear Beverly, how are you progressing with the excellent Baldos, of whom we
                        cannot make a prince, no matter how hard we try?"
                    Beverly and the princess exchanged glances in which consternation was
                        difficult to conceal. It was  clear to Beverly
                        that Yetive had not told her husband of the escape.
                    "I don't know anything about Baldos," she answered
                        steadily. "Last night someone shot at him in the
                        park."
                    "The deuce you say!"
                    "In order to protect him until you returned, Gren, I had him
                        transferred to guard duty inside the castle," explained the
                        princess. "It really seemed necessary. General Marlanx expects to
                        present formal charges against him this morning, so I suppose we shall have
                        to put him in irons for a little while. It seems too bad, doesn't
                        it, Gren?"
                    "Yes. He's as straight as a string, I'll
                        swear." said Lorry emphatically.
                    "I'll bet he wishes he were safely out of this
                        place," ventured Anguish, and two young women busied themselves
                        suddenly with their coffee.
                    "The chance is he's sorry he ever came into it,"
                        said Lorry tantalizingly.
                    While they were waiting for Marlanx the young Duke of Mizrox was announced.
                        The handsome Axphainian came with relief and dismay struggling for mastery
                        in his face.
                    "Your highness," he said, after the greetings, "I
                        am come to inform you that Graustark has one prince less to account for.
                        Axphain has found her fugitive."
                    "When?" cried the princess and Beverly in one voice and
                        with astonishing eagerness, not unmixed with dismay.
                    
                    "Three days ago," was the reply.
                    "Oh," came in deep relief from Beverly as she sank back
                        into her chair. The same fear had lodged in the hearts of the two fair
                        conspirators --- that they had freed Baldos only to have him fall into the
                        hands of his deadliest foes.
                    "I have a message by courier from my uncle in Axphain,"
                        said Mizrox. "He says that Frederic was killed near Labbot by
                        soldiers, after making a gallant fight, on last Sunday night. The Princess
                        Volga is rejoicing, and has amply rewarded his slayers. Poor Frederic! He
                        knew but little happiness in this life."
                    There was a full minute of reflection before any of his hearers expressed the
                        thought that had framed itself in every mind.
                    "Well, since Dantan and Frederic are accounted for, Baldos is
                        absolutely obliged to be Christobal," said Anguish resignedly.
                    "He's just Baldos," observed Beverly, snuffing out
                        the faint hope that had lingered so long. Then she said to herself:
                        "And I don't care, either. I only wish he were back here
                        again. I'd be a good deal nicer to him."
                    Messengers flew back and forth, carrying orders from the castle to various
                        quarters. The ministers were called to meet at twelve o'clock.
                        Underneath all the bustle there was a tremendous impulse of American
                        cunning, energy and resourcefulness. Everyone caught the fever. Reserved old
                        diplomats were overwhelmed by their own enthusiasm; custom-  bound soldiers forgot the hereditary caution and fell
                        into the ways of the new leaders without a murmur. The city was wild with
                        excitement, for all believed that the war was upon them. There was but one
                        shadow overhanging the glorious optimism of Graustark --- the ugly, menacing
                        attitude of Axphain. Even the Duke of Mizrox could give no assurance that
                        his country would remain neutral.
                    Colonel Quinnox came to the castle in haste and perturbation. It was he who
                        propounded the question that Yetive and Beverly were expecting:
                        "Where is Baldos?" Of course, the flight of the suspected
                        guard was soon a matter of certainty. A single imploring glance from the
                        princess, meant for the faithful Quinnox alone, told him as plainly as words
                        could have said that she had given the man his freedom. And Quinnox would
                        have died a thousand times to protect the secret of his sovereign, for had
                        not twenty generations of Quinnoxes served the rulers of Graustark with
                        unflinching loyalty? Baron Dangloss may have suspected the trick, but he did
                        not so much as blink when the princess instructed him to hunt high and low
                        for the fugitive.
                    Marlanx came at eleven. Under the defiant calmness of his bearing there was
                        lurking a mighty fear. His brain was scourged by thoughts of impending
                        disgrace. The princess had plainly threatened his degradation. After all
                        these years, he was to tremble with shame and humiliation; he was to cringe
                        where he had always boasted of domineering power. And besides all this,
                        Marlanx had a bullet wound in his  left
                        shoulder! The world could not have known, for he knew how to conceal
                        pain.
                    He approached the slender, imperious judge in the council-chamber with a
                        defiant leer on his face. If he went down into the depths he would drag with
                        him the fairest treasure he had coveted in all his years of lust and
                        desire.
                    "A word with you," he said in an aside to Beverly, as she
                        came from the council-chamber, in which she felt she should not sit. She
                        stopped and faced him. Instinctively she looked to see if he bore evidence
                        of a wound. She was positive that her bullet had struck him the night
                        before, and that Marlanx was the man with the cloak.
                    "Well?" she said coldly. He read her thoughts and smiled,
                        even as his shoulder burned with pain.
                    "I will give you the chance to save yourself. I love you. I want
                        you. I must have you for my own," he was saying.
                    "Stop, sir! It may be your experience in life that women kneel to
                        you when you command. It may be your habit to win what you set about to win.
                        But you have a novel way of presenting your devoirs, I must say. Is this the
                        way in which you won the five unfortunates whom you want me to succeed? Did
                        you scare them into submission?"
                    "No, no! I cared nothing for them. You are the only one I ever loved
                        ----"
                    "Really, Count Marlanx, you are most amusing," she
                        interrupted, with a laugh that stung him to the quick. "You have
                        been unique in your love-making.  I am not
                        used to your methods. Besides, after having known them, I'll
                        confess that I don't like them in the least. You may have been
                        wonderfully successful in the past, but you were not dealing with an
                        American girl. I have had enough of your insults. Go! Go in and face
                        ----"
                    "Have a care, girl!" he snarled. "I have it in my
                        power to crush you."
                    "Pooh!" came scornfully from her lips. "If you
                        molest me further I shall call Mr. Lorry. Let me pass!"
                    "Just glance at this paper, my beauty. I fancy you'll
                        change your tune. It goes before the eyes of the council, unless you
                        ----" he paused significantly.
                    Beverly took the document and with dilated eyes read the revolting charges
                        against her honor. Her cheeks grew white with anger, then flushed a deep
                        crimson.
                    "You fiend!" she cried, glaring at him so fiercely that he
                        instinctively shrank back, the vicious grin dying in his face.
                        "I'll show you how much I fear you. I shall give this
                        revolting thing to the princess. She may read it to the cabinet, for all I
                        care. No one will believe you. They'll kill you for
                        this!"
                    She turned and flew into the presence of the princess and her ministers.
                        Speeding to the side of Yetive, she thrust the paper into her hands.
                        Surprise and expectancy filled the eyes of all assembled.
                    "Count Marlanx officially charges me with --- with --- Read it, your
                        highness," she cried distractedly.
                    
                    Yetive read it, pale-faced and cold. A determined gleam appeared in her eyes
                        as she passed the document to her husband.
                    "Allode," Lorry said to an attendant, after a brief glance
                        at its revolting contents, "ask Count Marlanx to appear here
                        instantly. He is outside the door."
                    Lorry's anger was hard to control. He clenched his hands and there
                        was a fine suggestion of throttling in the way he did it. Marlanx, entering
                        the room, saw that he was doomed. He had not expected Beverly to take this
                        appalling step. The girl, tears in her eyes, rushed to a window, hiding her
                        face from the wondering ministers. Her courage suddenly failed her. If the
                        charges were read aloud before these men it seemed to her that she never
                        could lift her eyes again. A mighty longing for Washington, her father and
                        the big Calhoun boys, rushed to her heart as she stood there and awaited the
                        crash. But Lorry was a true nobleman.
                    "Gentlemen," he said quietly, "Count Marlanx has
                        seen fit to charge Miss Calhoun with complicity in the flight of Baldos. I
                        will not read the charges to you. They are unworthy of one who has held the
                        highest position in the army of Graustark. He has ----"
                    "Read this, my husband, before you proceed further," said
                        Yetive, thrusting into his hand a line she had written with feverish haste.
                        Lorry smiled gravely before he read aloud the brief edict which removed
                        General Marlanx from the command of the army of Graustark.
                    
                    "Is this justice?" protested Marlanx angrily.
                        "Will you not give me a hearing? I beseech ----"
                    "Silence!" commanded the princess. "What manner of
                        hearing did you expect to give Miss Calhoun? It is enough, sir. There shall
                        be no cowards in my army."
                    "Coward?" he faltered. "Have I not proved my
                        courage on the field of battle? Am I to be called a ----"
                    "Bravery should not end when the soldier quits the field of battle.
                        You have had a hearing, Count Marlanx. I heard the truth about you last
                        night."
                    "From Miss Calhoun?" sneered he viciously. "I must
                        be content to accept this dismissal, your highness. There is no hope for me.
                        Some day you may pray God to forgive you for the wrong you have done your
                        most loyal servant. There is no appeal from your decision; but as a subject
                        of Graustark I insist that Miss Calhoun shall be punished for aiding in the
                        escape of this spy and traitor. He is gone, and it was she who led him
                        through the castle to the outer world. She cannot deny this, gentlemen. I
                        defy her to say she did not accompany Baldos through the secret passage last
                        night."
                    "It will do no harm to set herself right by denying this
                        accusation," suggested Count Halfont solemnly. Every man in the
                        cabinet and army had hated Marlanx for years. His degradation was not
                        displeasing to them. They would ask no questions.
                    But Beverly Calhoun stood staring out of the window, out upon the castle park
                        and its gay sunshine.  She did not answer, for
                        she did not hear the premier's words. Her brain was whirling madly
                        with other thoughts. She was trying to believe her eyes.
                    "Thle spy is gone," cried Marlanx, seeing a faint chance to
                        redeem himself at her expense. "She cannot face my charge. Where is
                        your friend, Miss Calhoun?"
                    Beverly faced them with a strange, subdued calmness in her face. Her heart
                        was throbbing wildly in the shelter of this splendid disguise.
                    "I don't know what all this commotion is about,"
                        she said. "I only know that I have been dragged into it shamelessly
                        by that old man over there. If you step to the window you may see Baldos
                        himself. He has not fled. He is on duty!"
                    Baldos was striding steadily across the park in plain view of all.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVII
                    THE PRINCE OF DAWSBERGEN
                    BOTH Yetive and Beverly experienced an amazing sense of relief. They did not
                        stop to consider why or how he had returned to the castle grounds. It was
                        sufficient that he was actually there, sound, well, and apparently
                        satisfied.
                    "I dare say Count Marlanx will withdraw his infamous charge against
                        our guest," said Lorry, with deadly directness. Marlanx was mopping
                        his damp forehead. His eyes were fastened upon the figure of the guard, and
                        there was something like awe in their steely depths. It seemed to him that
                        the supernatural had been enlisted against him.
                    "He left the castle last night," he muttered, half to
                        himself."
                    "There seems to be no doubt of that," agreed Gas pon, the
                        grand treasurer. "Colonel Quinnox reports his strange
                        disappearance." Clearly the case was a puzzling one. Men looked at
                        one another in wonder and uneasiness.
                    "I think I understand the situation," exclaimed Marlanx,
                        suddenly triumphant. "It bears out all  that I have said. Baldos left the castle last night, as I have sworn, but
                        not for the purpose of escaping. He went forth to carry information to our
                        enemies. Can anyone doubt that he is a spy? Has he not returned to carry out
                        his work? And now, gentlemen, I ask you --- would he return unless he felt
                        secure of protection here?"
                    It was a facer. Yetive and Beverly felt as though a steel trap suddenly had
                        been closed down upon them. Lorry and Anguish were undeniably disconcerted.
                        There was a restless, undecided movement among the ministers.
                    "Colonel Quinnox, will you fetch Baldos to the verandah at
                        once?" asked Lorry, his quick American perception telling him that
                        immediate action was necessary. "It is cooler out there."
                        He gave Beverly a look of inquiry. She flushed painfully, guiltily, and he
                        was troubled in consequence.
                    "As a mere subject, I demand the arrest of this man,"
                        Marlanx was saying excitedly. "We must go to the bottom of this
                        hellish plot to injure Graustark."
                    "My dear count," said Anguish, standing over him,
                        "up to this time we have been unable to discern any reasons for or
                        signs of the treachery you preach about. I don't believe we have
                        been betrayed at all."
                    "But I have absolute proof, sir," grated the count.
                    "I'd advise you to produce it. We must have something to
                        work on, you know."
                    "What right have you to give advice, sir? You are not one of us. You
                        are a meddler --- an impertinent alien. Your heart is not with Graustark, as
                             mine is. How long must we endure the
                        insolence of these Americans?"
                    The count was fuming with anger. As might hase been expected, the easy-going
                        Yankees laughed unreservedly at his taunt. The princess was pale with
                        indignation.
                    "Count Marlanx, you will confine your remarks to the man whom you
                        have charged with treachery," she said. "You have asked
                        for his arrest, and you are to be his accuser. At the proper time you will
                        produce the proof. I warn you now that if you do not sustain these charges,
                        the displeasure of the crown will fall heavily upon you."
                    "I only ask your highness to order his arrest," he said,
                        controlling himself. "He is of the castle guard and can be seized
                        only on your command."
                    "Baldos is at the castle steps, your hlighness," sad
                        Colonel Quinnox from the doorway. The entire party left the council-chamber
                        and passed out to the great stone porch. It must be confessed that the
                        princess leaned rather heavily upon Lorry's arm. She and Beverly
                        trembled with anxiety as they stood face to face with the tall guard who had
                        come back to them so mysteriously.
                    Baldos stood at the foot of the stone steps, a guard on each side of him. One
                        of these was the shame-faced Haddan, Dangloss's watchman, whose
                        vigil had been a failure. The gaze of the suspected guard purposely avoided
                        that of Beverly Calhoun. He knew that the slightest communication between
                        them would be misunderstood and magnified by the witnesses.
                    
                    "Baldos," said Lorry, from the top step, "it has
                        come to our ears that you left the castle surreptitiously last night. Is it
                        true that you were aided by Miss Calhoun?" Baldos looked thankful
                        for this eminently leading question. In a flash it gave him the key to the
                        situation. Secretly he was wondering what emotions possessed the slender
                        accomplice who had said good-bye to him not so many hours before at the
                        castle gate. He knew that she was amazed, puzzled by his sudden return; he
                        wondered if she were glad. His quick wits saw that a crisis had arrived. The
                        air was full of it. The dread of this very moment was the thing which had
                        drawn him into the castle grounds at early dawn. He had watched for his
                        chance to glide in unobserved, and had snatched a few hours sleep in the
                        shelter of the shrubbery near the park wall.
                    "It is not true," he said clearly, in answer to
                        Lorry's question. Both Beverly and Marlanx started as the sharp
                        falsehood fell from his lips. "Who made such an
                        accusation?" he demanded.
                    "Count Marlanx is our informant."
                    "Then Count Marlanx lies," came coolly from the guard. A
                        snarl of fury burst from the throat of the deposed general. His eyes were
                        red and his tongue was half palsied by rage.
                    "Dog! Dog!" he shouted, running down the steps.
                        "Infamous dog! I swear by my soul that he ----"
                    "Where is your proof, Count Marlanx?" sternly interrupted
                        Lorry. "You have made a serious ac- 
                        cusation against our honored guest. It cannot be overlooked."
                    Marlanx hesitated a moment, and then threw his bomb at the feet of the
                        conspirators.
                    "I was in the chapel when she opened the secret panel for
                        him."
                    Not a word was uttered for a full minute. It was Beverly Calhoun who spoke
                        first. She was as calm as a spring morning.
                    "If all this be true, Count Marlanx, may I ask why you, the head of
                        Graustark's army, did not intercept the spy when you had the
                        chance?"
                    Marlanx flushed guiltily. The question had caught him unprepared. He dared
                        not acknowledge his presence there with the hired assassins.
                    "I --- I was not in a position to restrain him," he
                        fumbled.
                    "You preferred to wait until he was safely gone before making the
                        effort to protect Graustark from his evil designs. Is that it? What was your
                        object in going to the chapel? To pray? Besides, what right had you to enter
                        the castle in the night?" she asked ironically.
                    "Your highness, may I be heard?" asked Baldos easily. He
                        was smiling up at Yetive from the bottom of the steps. She nodded her head a
                        trifle uneasily. "It is quite true that I left the castle by means
                        of your secret passage last night."
                    "There!" shrieked Marlanx. "He admits that he
                        ----"
                    "But I wish to add that Count Marlanx is in error  when he says that Miss Calhoun was my accomplice. His
                        eyes were not keen in the darkness of the sanctuary. Perhaps he is not
                        accustomed to the light one finds in a chapel at the hour of two. Will your
                        highness kindly look in the direction of the southern gate? Your august gaze
                        may fall upon the reclining figure of a boy asleep, there in the shadow of
                        the friendly cedar. If Count Marlanx had looked closely enough last night he
                        might have seen that it was a boy who went with me and not
                        ----"
                    "Fool! Don't you suppose I know a woman's
                        skirts?" cried the Iron Count.
                    "Better than most men, I fancy," calmly responded Baldos.
                        "My young friend wore the garments of a woman, let me
                        add."
                    Lorry came down and grasped Baldos by the arm. His eyes were stern and
                        accusing. Above, Yetive and Beverly had clasped hands and were looking on
                        dumbly. What did Baldos mean?
                    "Then, you did go through the passage? And you were accompanied by
                        this boy, a stranger? How comes this, sir?" demanded Lorry. Every
                        eye was accusing the guard at this juncture. The men were descending the
                        steps as if to surround him.
                    "It is not the first time that I have gone through the passage,
                        sir," said Baldos, amused by the looks of consternation.
                        "I'd advise you to close it. Its secret is known to more
                        than one person. It is known, by the way, to Prince Gabriel of Dawsbergen.
                        It is known to every member of the band with which Miss Calhoun found me
                        when she was a princess.  Count Marlanx is
                        quite right when he says that I have gone in and out of the castle grounds
                        from time to time. He is right when he says that I have communicated with
                        men inside and outside of these grounds. But he is wrong when he accuses
                        Miss Calhoun of being responsible for or even aware of my reprehensible
                        conduct. She knew nothing of all this, as you may judge by taking a look at
                        her face at this instant."
                    Beverly's face was a study in emotions. She was looking at him with
                        dilated eyes. Pain and disappointment were concentrated in their expressive
                        gray depths; indignation was struggling to master the love and pity that had
                        lurked in her face all along. It required but a single glance to convince
                        the most skeptical that she was ignorant of these astounding movements on
                        the part of her protg. Again every eye was turned upon the bold, smiling
                        guardsman.
                    "I have been bitterly deceived in you," said Lorry, genuine
                        pain in his voice. "We trusted you implicitly. I didn't
                        think it of you, Baldos. After all, it is honorable of you to expose so
                        thoroughly your own infamy in order to acquit an innocent person who
                        believed in you. You did not have to come back to the castle. You might have
                        escaped punishment by using Miss Calhoun as a shield from her
                        highness's wrath. But none the less you compel me to give
                        countenance to all that Count Marlanx has said."
                    "I insist that it was Miss Calhoun who went through the panel with
                        him," said Marlanx eagerly. 
                        "If it was this boy who accompanied you, what was his excuse in
                        returning to the castle after you had fled?"
                    "He came back to watch over Miss Calhoun while she slept. It was my
                        sworn duty to guard her from the man who had accused her. This boy is a
                        member of the band to which I belong and he watched while I went forth on a
                        pretty business of my own. It will be useless to ask what that business was.
                        I will not tell. Nor will the boy. You may kill us, but our secrets die with
                        us. This much I will say: we have done nothing disloyal to Graustark. You
                        may believe me or not. It has been necessary for me to communicate with my
                        friends, and I found the means soon after my arrival here. All the foxes
                        that live in the hills have not four legs," he concluded
                        significantly.
                    "You are a marvel" exclaimed Lorry, and there was real
                        admiration in his voice. "I'm sorry you were fool enough
                        to come back and get caught like this. Don't look surprised,
                        gentlemen, for I believe that in your hearts you admire him quite as much as
                        I do." The faint smile that went the rounds was confirmation
                        enough. Nearly every man there had been trained in English-speaking lands
                        and not a word of the conversation had been missed.
                    "I expected to be arrested, Mr. Lorry," said Baldos calmly.
                        "I knew that the warrant awaited me. I knew that my flight of last
                        night was no secret. I came back willingly, gladly, your highness,  and now I am ready to face my accuser. There
                        is nothing for me to fear."
                    "And after you have confessed to all these actions? By George, I
                        like your nerve," exclaimed Lorry.
                    "I have been amply vindicated," cried Marlanx.
                        "Put him in irons --- and that boy, too."
                    "We'll interview the boy," said Lorry, remembering
                        the lad beneath the tree.
                    "See; he's sleeping so sweetly," said Baldos
                        gently. "Poor lad, he has not known sleep for many hours. I suppose
                        he'll have to be awakened, poor little beggar."
                    Colonel Quinnox and Haddan crossed the grounds to the big cedar. The boy
                        sprang to his feet at their call and looked wildly about. Two big hands
                        clasped his arms, and a moment later the slight figure came pathetically
                        across thle intervening space between the stalwart guards.
                    "Why has he remained here, certain of arrest?" demanded
                        Lorry in surprise.
                    "He was safer with me than anywhere else, Mr. Lorry. You may shoot
                        me a thousand times, but I implore you to deal gently with my unhappy
                        friend. He has done no wrong. The clothes you see upon that trembling figure
                        are torturing the poor heart more than you can know. The burning flush upon
                        that check is the red of modesty. Your highness and gentlemen, I ask you to
                        have pity on this gentle friend of mine." He threw his arm about
                        the shoulder of the slight figure as it drooped against him. "Count
                             Marlanx was right. It was a woman he saw
                        with me in the chapel last night."
                    The sensation created by this simple statement was staggering. The flushed
                        face was unmistakably that of a young girl, a tender, modest thing that
                        shrank before the eyes of a grim audience. Womanly instinct impelled Yetive
                        to shield the timid masquerader. Her strange association with Baldos was not
                        of enough consequence in the eyes of this tender ruler to check the impulse
                        of gentleness that swept over her. That the girl was guiltless of any
                        wrong-doing was plain to he seen. Her eyes, her face, her trembling figure
                        furnished proof conclusive. The dark looks of the men were softened when the
                        arm of the princess went about the stranger and drew her close.
                    "Bah! Some wanton or other!" sneered Marlanx. "But
                        a pretty one, by the gods. Baldos has always shown his good
                        taste."
                    Baldos glared at him like a tiger restrained.
                    "Before God, you will have those words to unsay," he
                        hissed.
                    Yetive felt the slight body of the girl quiver and then grow tense.
                    The eyes of Baldos now were fixed on the white, drawn face of Beverly
                        Calhoun, who stood quite alone at the top of the steps. She began to sway
                        dizzily and he saw that she was about to fall. Springing away from the
                        guards, he dashed up the steps to her side. His arm caught her as she
                        swayed, and its touch restored strength to her --- the strength of
                        resentment and defiance.
                    
                    "Don't! " she whispered hoarsely.
                    "Have courage," he murmured softly. "It will all
                        be well. There is no danger."
                    "So this is the woman!" she cried bitterly.
                    "Yes. You alone are dearer to me than she," he uttered
                        hurriedly.
                    "I can't believe a word you say."
                    "You will,Beverly. I love you. That is why I came back. I could not
                        leave you to meet it alone. Was I not right? Let them put me into irons ---
                        let them kill me ---"
                    "Come!" cried Colonel Quinnox, reaching his side at this
                        instant. "The girl will he cared for. You are a
                        prisoner."
                    "Wait!" implored Beverly, light suddenly breaking in upon
                        her. "Please wait, Colonel Quinnox." He hesitated, his
                        broad shoulders between her and the gaping crowd below. She saw with
                        grateful heart that Yetive and Lorry were holding the steps as if against a
                        warlike foe. "Is she --- is she your wife?"
                    "Good heavens, no!" gasped Baldos.
                    "Your sweetheart?" piteously.
                    "She is the sister of the man I serve so poorly," he
                        whispered. Quinnox allowed them to walk a few paces down the flagging, away
                        from the curious gaze of the persons below.
                    "Oh, Baldos!" she cried, her heart suddenly melting.
                        "Is she Prince Dantan's sister?" Her hand clasped
                        his convulsively, as he nodded assent. "Now I do love
                        you."
                    "Thank God!" he whispered joyously. "I knew  it, but I was afraid you never would speak
                        the words. I am happy --- I am wild with joy."
                    "But they may shoot you," she shuddered. "You have
                        condemned yourself. Oh, I cannot talk to you as I want to --- out here
                        before all these people. Don't move, Colonel Quinnox --- they
                        can't see through you. Please stand still."
                    "They will not shoot me, Beverly, dear. I am not a spy,"
                        said Baldos, looking down into the eyes of the slender boyish figure who
                        stood beside the princess. "It is better that I should die,
                        however," he went on bitterly. "Life will not be worth
                        living without you. You would not give yourself to the lowly, humble hunter,
                        so I -----"
                    "I will marry you, Paul. I love you. Can't anything be done
                        to ----"
                    "It is bound to come out all right in the end," he cried,
                        throwing up his head to drink in the new joy of living. "They will
                        find that I have done nothing to injure Graustark. Wait, dearest, until the
                        day gives up its news. It will not be long in coming. Ah, this promise of
                        yours gives me new life, new joy. I could shout it from the
                        housetops!"
                    "But don't!" she cried nervously. "How
                        does she happen to be here with you? Tell me, Paul. Oh, isn't she a
                        dear?"
                    "You shall know everything in time. Watch over her, dearest. I have
                        lied to-day for you, but it was a lie I loved. Care for her if you love me.
                        When I am free and in favor again you will --- Ah!" he broke off
                        suddenly with an exclamation. His eyes  were
                        bent eagerly on the circle of trees just beyond the parade-ground. Then his
                        hand clasped hers in one spasmodic grip of relief. An instant later he was
                        towering, with head bare, at the top of the steps, his hand pointed
                        dramatically toward the trees.
                    Ravone, still in his ragged uniform, haggard but eager, was standing like a
                        gaunt spectre in the sunlight that flooded the terrace. The vagabond, with
                        the eyes of all upon him, raised and lowered his arms thrice, and the face
                        of Baldos became radiant.
                    "Your highness," he cried to Yetive, waving his hand toward
                        the stranger, "I have the honor to announce the Prince of
                        Dawsbergen."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVIII
                    A BOY DISAPPEARS
                    THIS startling announcement threw the company into the greatest excitement,
                        Baldos ran down the steps and to the side of the astonished princess.
                    "Prince Dantan!" she cried, unbelieving.
                    He pushed the boyish figure aside and whispered earnestly into
                        Yetive's ear. She smiled warmly in response, and her eyes
                        sparkled.
                    "And this, your highness, is his sister, the Princess
                        Candace," he announced aloud, bowing low before the girl. At that
                        instant she ceased to be the timid, cringing boy. Her chin went up in truly
                        regal state as she calmly, even haughtily, responded to the dazed,
                        half-earnest salutes of the men. With a rare smile --- a knowing one in
                        which mischief was paramount --- she spoke to Baldos, giving him her hand to
                        kiss.
                    " Ah, dear Baldos, you have achieved your sweetest triumph --- the
                        theatrical climax to all this time of plotting. My brother's sister
                        loves you for all this. Your highness," and she turned to Yetive
                        with a captivating smile, "is the luckless sister of Dantan wel-
                             come in your castle? May I rest here in
                        peace? It has been a bitterly long year, this past week," she
                        sighed. Fatigue shot back into her sweet face, and Yetive's love
                        went out to her unreservedly. As she drew the slight figure up the steps she
                        turned and said to her ministers:
                    "I shall be glad to receive Prince Dantan in the throne-room,
                        without delay. I am going to put the princess to bed."
                    "Your highness," said Baldos from below, "may I be
                        the first to announce to you that there will be no war with
                        Dawsbergen?"
                    This was too much. Even Marlanx looked at his enemy with something like
                        collapse in his eyes.
                    "What do you mean?" cried Lorry, seizing him by the
                        arm.
                    "I mean that Prince Dantan is here to announce the recapture of
                        Gabriel, his half-brother. Before the hour is past your own men from the
                        dungeon in the mountains will come to report the return of the fugitive.
                        This announcement may explain in a measure the conduct that has earned for
                        me the accusation which confronts me. The men who have retaken Gabriel are
                        the members of that little band you have heard so much about. Once I was its
                        captain, Prince Dantan's chief of staff --- the commander of his
                        ragged army of twelve. Miss Calhoun and fate brought me into Edelweiss, but
                        my loyalty to the object espoused by our glorious little army has never
                        wavered. Without me they have succeeded in tricking and trapping Gabriel. It
                        is more than the great  army of Graustark
                        could do. Your highness will pardon the boast under the
                        circumstances?"
                    "If this is true, you have accomplished a miracle,"
                        exclaimed Lorry, profoundly agitated. "But can it be true? I
                        can't believe it. It is too good. It is too utterly improbable. Is
                        that really Prince Dantan?"
                    "Assuming that it is Dantan, Grenfall," said Yetive,
                        "I fancy it is not courteous in us to let him stand over there all
                        alone and ignored. Go to him, please." With that she passed through
                        the doors, accompanied by Beverly and the young princess. Lorry and others
                        went to greet the emaciated visitor in rags and tags. Colonel Quinnox and
                        Baron Dangloss looked at one another in doubt and uncertainty. What were
                        they to do with Baldos, the prisoner?
                    "You are asking yourself what is to be done with me," said
                        Baldos easily. "The order is for my arrest. Only the princess can
                        annul it. She has retired on a mission of love and tenderness. I would not
                        have her disturbed. There is nothing left for you to do but to place me in a
                        cell. I am quite ready, Colonel Quinnox. You will be wise to put me in a
                        place where I cannot hoodwink you further. You do not bear me a
                        grudge?" He laughed so buoyantly, so fearlessly that Quinnox
                        forgave him everything. Dangloss chuckled, an unheard-of condescension on
                        his part. "We shall meet again, Count Marlanx. You were not far
                        wrong in your accusations against me, but you have much to account for in
                        another direction."
                    
                    "This is all a clever trick," cried the Iron Count.
                        "But you shall find me ready to accommodate you when the time
                        comes."
                    At this juncture Lorry and Count Halfont came up with Ravone. Baldos would
                        have knelt before his ruler had not the worn, sickly young man restrained
                        him.
                    "Your hand, Captain Baldos," he said. "Most loyal
                        of friends. You have won far more than the honor and love I can bestow upon
                        you. They tell me you are a prisoner, a suspected traitor. It shall be my
                        duty and joy to explain your motives and your actions. Have no fear. The
                        hour will be short and the fruit much the sweeter for the
                        bitterness."
                    "Thunder!" muttered Harry Anguish. "You
                        don't intend to slap him into a cell, do you, Gren?"
                        Baldos overheard the remark.
                    "I prefer that course, sir, until it has been clearly established
                        that all I have said to you is the truth. Count Marlanx must be
                        satisfied," said he.
                    "And, Baldos, is all well with her?" asked the one we have
                        known as Ravone.
                    "She is being put to bed," said Baldos, with a laugh so
                        jolly that Ravone's lean face was wreathed in a sympathetic smile.
                        "I am ready, gentlemen." He marched gallantly away between
                        the guards, followed by Dangloss and Colonel Quinnox.
                    Naturally the Graustark leaders were cautious, even skeptical. They awaited
                        confirmation of the glorious news with varying emotions. The shock produced
                        by the appearance of Prince Dantan in the person  of the ascetic Ravone was almost stupefying. Even
                        Beverly, who knew the vagabond better than all the others, had not dreamed
                        of Ravone as the fugitive prince. Secretly she had hoped as long as she
                        could that Baldos would prove, after all, to be no other than Dantan. This
                        hope had dwindled to nothing, however, and she was quite prepared for the
                        revelation. She now saw that he was just what he professed to be --- a brave
                        but humble friend of the young sovereign; and she was happy in the knowledge
                        that she loved him for what he was and not for what he might have been.
                    "He is my truest friend," said Ravone, as they led Baldos
                        away. "I am called Ravone, gentlemen, and I am content to be known
                        by that name until better fortune gives me the right to use another. You can
                        hardly expect a thing in rags to be called a prince. There is much to be
                        accomplished, much to be forgiven, before there is a Prince Dantan of
                        Dawsbergen again."
                    "You are faint and weak," said Lorry, suddenly perceiving
                        his plight. "The hospitality of the castle is yours. The promise we
                        made a few days ago holds good. Her highness will be proud to receive you
                        when you are ready to come to the throne-room. I am Grenfall Lorry. Come,
                        sir; rest and refresh yourself in our gladdened home. An hour ago we were
                        making ready to rush into battle; but your astonishing but welcome news is
                        calculated to change every plan we have made."
                    "Undoubtedly, sir, it will. Dawsbergen hardly  will make a fight to release Gabriel. He is safe in
                        your dungeons. If they want him now, they must come to your strongholds.
                        They will not do it, believe me," said Ravone simply.
                        "Alas, I am faint and sore, as you suspect. May I lie down for an
                        hour or two? In that time you will have heard from your wardens and my story
                        will be substantiated. Then I shall be ready to accept your hospitality as
                        it is proffered. Outside your city gates my humble followers lie starving.
                        My only prayer is that you will send them cheer and succor."
                    No time was lost in sending to the gates for the strollers who had
                        accomplished the marvel of the day. The news of Gabriel's capture
                        was kept from the city's inhabitants until verification came from
                        the proper sources, but those in control of the affairs of state were
                        certain that Ravone's story was true. All operations came to a
                        standstill. The movements of the army were checked. Everything lay quiescent
                        under the shock of this startling climax.
                    "Hang it," growled Anguish, with a quizzical grin, as
                        Ravone departed under the guidance of Count Halfont himself, "this
                        knocks me galley-west. I'd like to have had a hand in it. It must
                        have been great. How the devil do you think that miserable little gang of
                        tramps pulled it off?"
                    "Harry," said Lorry disgustedly, "they taught us a
                        trick or two."
                    While the young princess was being cared for by Yetive's own maids
                        in one of the daintiest bedchambers of the castle, Beverly was engaged in
                        writ-  ing a brief but pointed letter to her
                        Aunt Josephine, who was still in St. Petersburg. She had persistently
                        refused to visit Edelweiss, but had written many imperative letters
                        commanding her niece to return to the Russian capital. Beverly now was
                        recalling her scattered wits in the effort to appease her aunt and her
                        father at the same time. Major Calhoun emphatically had ordered her to
                        rejoin her aunt and start for America at once. Yesterday Beverly would have
                        begun packing for the trip home. Now she was eager to remain in Graustark
                        indefinitely. She was so thrilled by joy and excitement that she scarcely
                        could hold the pen.
                    "Father says the United States papers are full of awful war scares
                        from the Balkans. Are we a part of the Balkans, Yetive?" she asked
                        of Yetive, with a puzzled frown, emphasizing the pronoun unconsciously.
                        "He says I'm to come right off home. Says he'll
                        not pay a nickel of ransom if the brigands catch me, as they did Miss Stone
                        and that woman who had the baby. He says mother is worried half to death.
                        I'm just going to cable him that it's all off. Because he
                        says if war breaks out he's going to send my brother Dan over here
                        to get me. I'm having Aunt Josephine send him this cablegram from
                        St. Petersburg: 'They never fight in Balkans. Just scare each
                        other. Skip headlines, father dear. Will be home soon. Beverly.'
                        How does that sound? It will cost a lot, but he brought it upon his own
                        head. And we're not in the Balkans, anyway. Aunt Joe  will have a fit. Please call an A. D. T. boy,
                        princess. I want to send this message to St. Petersburg."
                    When Candace entered the princess's boudoir half an hour later, she
                        was far from being the timid youth who first came to the notice of the
                        Graustark cabinet. She was now attired in one of Beverly's gowns,
                        and it was most becoming to her. Her short curly brown hair was done up
                        properly; her pink and white complexion was as clear as cream, now that the
                        dust of the road was gone; her dark eyes were glowing with the wonder and
                        interest of nineteen years, and she was, all in all, a most enticing bit of
                        femininity.
                    "You are much more of a princess now than when I first saw
                        you," smiled Yetive, drawing her down upon the cushions of the
                        window-seat beside her. Candace was shy and diffident, despite her proper
                        habiliments.
                    "But she was such a pretty boy," protested Dagmar.
                        "You don't know how attractive you were in those
                        ----"
                    Candace blushed. "Oh, they were awful, but they were comfortable.
                        One has to wear trousers if one intends to be a vagabond. I wore them for
                        more than a week."
                    "You shall tell us all about it," said Yetive, holding the
                        girl's hand in hers. "It must have been a most interesting
                        week for you."
                    "Oh, there is not much to tell, your highness," said
                        Candace, suddenly reticent and shy. "My step-brother --- oh, how I
                        hate him --- had condemned me to die because he thought I was helping
                        Dantan.  And I was helping
                        him, too, --- all that I could. Old Bappo, master of the stables, who has
                        loved me for a hundred years, he says, helped me to escape from the palace
                        at night. They were to have seized me the next morning. Bappo has been
                        master of the stables for more than forty years. Dear old Bappo! He procured
                        the boy's clothing for me and his two sons accompanied me to the
                        hills, where I soon found my brother and his men. We saw your scouts and
                        talked to them a day or two after I became a member of the band.
                        Bappo's boys are with the band now. But my brother Dantan shall
                        tell you of that. I was so frightened I could not tell what was going on. I
                        have lived in the open air for a week, but I love it. Dantan's
                        friends are all heroes. You will love them. Yesterday old Franz brought a
                        message into the castle grounds. It told Captain Baldos of the plan to seize
                        Gabriel, who was in the hills near your city. Didn't you know of
                        that? Oh, we knew it two days ago. Baldos knew it yesterday. He met us at
                        four o'clock this morning --- that is, part of us. I was sent on
                        with Franz so that I should not see bloodshed if it came to the worst. We
                        were near the city gates and Baldos came straight to us. Isn't it
                        funny that you never knew all these things? Then at daybreak Baldos insisted
                        on bringing me here to await the news from the pass. It was safer, and
                        besides, he said he had another object in coming back at once."
                    Beverly flushed warmly. The three women were crowding about the narrator,
                        eagerly drinking in her naive story.
                    
                    "We came in through one of the big gates and not through the
                        underground passage. That was a fib," said Candace, looking from
                        one to the other with a perfectly delicious twinkle in her eye. The
                        conspirators gulped and smiled guiltily. "Baldos says there is a
                        very mean old man here who is tormenting the fairy princess --- not the real
                        princess, you know. He came back to protect her, which was very brave of
                        him, I am sure. Where is my brother?" she asked, suddenly
                        anxious.
                    "He is with friends. Don't be alarmed, dear," said
                        Yetive.
                    "He is changing clothes, too? He needs clothes worse than I needed
                        these. Does he say positively that Gabriel has been captured?"
                    "Yes. Did you not know of it?"
                    " I was sure it would happen. You know I was not with them in the
                        pass."
                    Yetive was reflecting, a soft smile in her eyes.
                    "I was thinking of the time when I wore men's
                        clothes," she said. "Unlike yours, mine were most
                        uncomfortable. It was when I aided Mr. Lorry in escaping from the tower. I
                        wore a guard's uniform and rode miles with him in a dark carriage
                        before he discovered the truth." She blushed at the remembrance of
                        that trying hour.
                    "And I wore boy's clothes at a girl's party once
                        --- my brother Dan's," said Beverly. "The
                        hostess's brothers came home unexpectedly and I had to sit behind a
                        bookcase for an hour. I didn't see much fun in boy's
                        clothes."
                    
                    "You ought to wear them for a week," said Candace, wise in
                        experience. "They are not so bad when you become accustomed to them
                        --- that is, if they're strong and not so tight that they
                        ----"
                    "You all love Baldos, don't you?" interrupted
                        Yetive. It was with difficulty that the listeners suppressed their
                        smiles.
                    "Better than anyone else. He is our idol. Oh, your highness, if what
                        he says is true that old man must be a fiend. Baldos a spy! Why, he has not
                        slept day or night for fear that we would not capture Gabriel so that he
                        might be cleared of the charge without appealing to --- to my brother. He
                        has always been loyal to you," the girl said with eager
                        eloquence.
                    "I know, dear, and I have known all along. He will be honorably
                        acquitted. Count Marlanx was overzealous. He has not been wholly wrong, I
                        must say in justice to him ----"
                    "How can you uphold him, Yetive, after what he has said about
                        me?" cried Beverly, with blazing eyes.
                    "Beverly, Beverly, you know I don't mean that. He has been
                        a cowardly villain so far as you are concerned and he shall be punished,
                        never fear. I cannot condone that one amazing piece of wickednss on his
                        part."
                    "You, then, are the girl Baldos talks so mench about?"
                        cried Candace eagerly. "You are Miss Calhoun, the fairy princess? I
                        am so glad to know you." The young princess clasped
                        Beverly's hand and looked into her eyes with admiration and ap-  proval. Beverly could have crushed her in her
                        arms.
                    The sounds of shouting came up to the windows from below. Outside, men were
                        rushing to and fro and there were signs of mighty demonstrations at the
                        gates.
                    "The people have heard of the capture," said Candace, as
                        calmly as though she were asking one to have a cup of tea.
                    There was a pounding at the boudoir door. It flew open unceremoniously and in
                        rushed Lorry, followed by Anguish. In the hallway beyond a group of noblemen
                        conversed excitedly with the women of the castle.
                    "The report from the dungeons, Yetive," cried Lorry
                        joyously. "The warden says that Gabriel is in his cell again!
                        Here's to Prince Dantan!"
                    Ravone was standing in the door. Candace ran over and leaped into his
                        arms.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIX
                    THE CAPTURE OF GABRIEL
                    RAVONE was handsome in his borrowed clothes. He was now the clean, immaculate
                        gentleman instead of the wretched vagabond of the hills. Even Beverly was
                        surprised at the change in him. His erstwhile sad and melancholy face was
                        flushed and bright with happiness. The kiss he bestowed upon the delighted
                        Candace was tender in the extreme. Then, putting her aside he strode over
                        and gallantly kissed the hand of Graustark's princess, beaming an
                        ecstatic smile upon the merry Beverly an instant later.
                    "Welcome, Prince Dantan," said Yetive. "A thousand
                        times welcome."
                    "All Graustark is your throne, most glorious Yetive. That is why I
                        have asked to be presented here and not in the royal hall below,"
                        said Ravone.
                    " You will wait here with us, then, to hear the good news from our
                        warden," said the princess. "Send the courier to
                        me," she commanded. "Such sweet news should be received in
                        the place which is dearest to me in all Graustark."
                    The ministers and the lords and ladies of the castle  were assembled in the room when Baron Dangloss
                        appeared with the courier from the prison. Count Marlanx was missing. He was
                        on his way to the fortress, a crushed, furious, impotent old man. In his
                        quarters he was to sit and wait for the blow that he knew could not be
                        averted. In fear and despair, hiding his pain and his shame, he was racking
                        his brain for means to lessen the force of that blow. He could withdraw the
                        charges against Baldos, but he could not soften the words he had said and
                        written of Beverly Calhoun. He was not troubling himself with fear because
                        of the adventures in the chapel and passage. He knew too well how Yetive
                        could punish when her heart was bitter against an evil-doer. Graustark
                        honored and protected its women.
                    The warden of the dungeons from which Gabriel had escaped months before
                        reported to the princess that the prisoner was again in custody. Briefly he
                        related that a party of men led by Prince Dantan had appeared early that day
                        bringing the fugitive prince, uninjured, but crazed by rage and
                        disappointment. They had tricked him into following them through the hills,
                        intent upon slaying his brother Dantan. There could be no mistake as to
                        Gabriel's identity. In conclusion, the warden implored her highness
                        to send troops up to guard the prison in the mountain-side. He feared an
                        attack in force by Gabriels army.
                    "Your highness," said Lorry, "I have sent
                        instructions to Colonel Braze, requiring him to take a large force of men
                        into the pass to guard the prison.  Gabriel
                        shall not escape again, though all Dawsbergen comes after him."
                    "You have but little to fear from Danwsbergen," said
                        Ravone, who was seated near the princess, Candace at his side.
                        "Messages have been brought to me from the leading nobles of
                        Dawsbergen, assuring me that the populace is secretly eager for the old
                        reign to be resumed. Only the desperate fear of Gabriel and a few of his
                        bloody but loyal advisers holds them in check. Believe me,
                        Dawsbergen's efforts to release Gabriel will be perfunctory and
                        half-hearted in the extreme. He ruled like a madman. It was his intense,
                        implacable desire to kill his brother that led to his undoing. Will it be
                        strange, your highness, if Dawsbergen welcomes the return of Dantan in his
                        stead?"
                    "The story! The story of his capture! Tell us thie story,"
                        came eagerly from those assembled. Ravone leaned back languidly, his face
                        tired and drawn once more, as if the mere recalling of the hardships past
                        was hard to bear.
                    "First, your highness, may I advise you and your cabinet to send
                        another ultimatum to the people of Dawsbergen?" he asked.
                        "This time say to them that you hold two Dansbergen princes in your
                        hand. One cannot and will not be restored to them. The other will be
                        released on demand. Let the embassy be directed to meet the Duke of Matz,
                        the premier. He is now with the army, not far from your frontier. May it
                        please your highness, I have myself taken the liberty of despatching three
                        trusted followers with the  news of
                        Gabriel's capture. The two Bappos and Carl Vandos are now speeding
                        to the frontier. Your embassy will find the Duke of Matz in possession of
                        all the facts."
                    "The Duke of Matz, I am reliably informed, some day is to be
                        father-in-law to Dawsbergen," smilingly said Yetive. "I
                        shall not wonder if he responds most favorably to an
                        ultimatum."
                    Ravone and Candace exchanged glances of amusement, the latter breaking into a
                        deplorable little gurgle of laughter.
                    "I beg to inform you that the duke's daughter has disdained
                        the offer from the crown," said Ravone. "She has married
                        Lieutenant Alsanol, of the royal artillery, and is as happy as a butterfly.
                        Captain Baldos could have told you how the wayward young woman defied her
                        father and laughed at the beggar prince."
                    "Captain Baldos is an exceedingly discreet person," Beverly
                        volunteered. "He has told no tales out of school."
                    "I am reminded of the fact that you gave your purse into my keeping
                        one memorable day --- the day when we parted from our best of friends at
                        Ganlook's gates. I thought you were a princess, and you did not
                        know that I understood English. That was a sore hour for us. Baldos was our
                        life, the heart of our enterprise. Gabriel hates him as he hates his own
                        brother. Steadfastly has Baldos refused to join us in the plot to seize
                        Prince Gabriel. He once took an oath to kill him on sight, and I was so
                        opposed to  this that he had to be left out of
                        the final adventures."
                    "Please tell us how you succeeded in capturing that --- your
                        half-brother," cried Beverly, forgetting that it was
                        another's place to make the request. The audience drew near,
                        eagerly attentive.
                    "At another time I shall rejoice in telling the story in detail. For
                        the present let me ask you to be satisfied with the statement that we
                        tricked him by means of letters into the insane hope that he could capture
                        and slay his half-brother. Captain Baldos suggested the plan. Had he been
                        arrested yesterday, I feel that it would have failed. Gabriel was and is
                        insane. We led him a chase through the Graustark hills until the time was
                        ripe for the final act. His small band of followers fled at our sudden
                        attack, and he was taken almost without a struggle, not ten miles from the
                        city of Edelweiss. In his mad ravings we learned that his chief desire was
                        to kill his brother and sister and after that to carry out the plan that has
                        long been in his mind. He was coming to Edelweiss for the sole purpose of
                        entering the castle by the underground passage, with murder in his heart.
                        Gabriel was coming to kill the Princess Yetive and Mr. Lorry. He has never
                        forgotten the love he bore for the princess, nor the hatred he owes his
                        rival. It was the duty of Captain Baldos to see that he did not enter the
                        passage in the event that he eluded us in the hills."
                    Later in the day the Princess Yetive received from the gaunt, hawkish old man
                        in the fortress a signed statement, withdrawing his charges against Baldos,
                             the guard. Marlanx did not ask for
                        leniency; it was not in him to plead. If the humble withdrawal of charges
                        against Baldos could mitigate the punishment he knew Yetive would impose,
                        all well and good. If it went for naught, he was prepared for the worst.
                        Down there in his quarters, with wine before him, he sat and waited for the
                        end. He knew that there was but one fate for the man, great or small, who
                        attacked a woman in Graustark. His only hope was that the princess might
                        make an exception in the case of one who had been the head of the army ---
                        but the hope was too small to cherish.
                    Baldos walked forth a free man, the plaudits of the people in his ears. Baron
                        Dangloss and Colonel Quinnox were beside the tall guard as he came forward
                        to receive the commendations and apologies of Graustark's ruler and
                        the warm promises of reward from the man he served.
                    He knelt before the two rulers who were holding court on the veranda. The
                        cheers of nobles, the shouts of soldiery, the exclamations of the ladies did
                        not turn his confident head. He was the born knight. The look of triumph
                        that he bestowed upon Beverly Calhoun, who lounged gracefully beside the
                        stone balustrade, brought the red flying to her cheeks. He took something
                        from his breast and held it gallantly to his lips, before all the assembled
                        courtiers. Beverly knew that it was a faded rose!
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXX
                    IN THE GROTTO
                    THE next morning a royal messenger came to Count Marlanx. He bore two sealed
                        letters from the princess. One briefly informed him that General Braze was
                        his successor as commander-in-chief of the army of Graustark. He hesitated
                        long before opening the other. It was equally brief and to the point. The
                        Iron Count's teeth came together with a savage snap as he read the
                        signature of the princess at the end. There was no recourse. She had struck
                        for Beverly Calhoun. He looked at his watch. It was eleven o'clock.
                        The edict gave him twenty-four hours from the noon of that day. The gray old
                        libertine despatched a messenger for his man of affairs, a lawyer of high
                        standing in Edelweiss. Together they consulted until midnight. Shortly after
                        daybreak the morning following, Count Marlanx was in the train for Vienna,
                        never to set foot on Graustark's soil again. He was banished and
                        his estates confiscated by the government.
                    The ministry in Edelweiss was not slow to reopen  negotiations with Dawsbergen. A proclamation was sent to the prime
                        minister, setting forth the new order of affairs and suggesting the instant
                        suspension of hostile preparations and the restoration of Prince Dantan.
                        Accompanying this proclamation went a dignified message from Dantan,
                        informing his people that he awaited their commands. He was ready to resume
                        the throne that had been so desecrated. It would be his joy to restore
                        Dawsbergen to its once peaceful and prosperous condition. In the meantime
                        the Duke of Mizrox despatched the news to the Princess Volga of Axphain, who
                        was forced to abandon --- temporarily, at least --- her desperate designs
                        upon Graustark. The capture of Gabriel put an end to her transparent
                        plans.
                    "But she is bound to break out against us sooner or later and on the
                        slightest provocation," said Yetive.
                    "I daresay that a friendly alliance between Graustark and Dawsbergen
                        will prove sufficient to check any ambitions she may have along that
                        line," said Ravone significantly. "They are very near to
                        each other now, your highness. Friends should stand together."
                    Beverly Calhoun was in suspense. Baldos had been sent off to the frontier by
                        Prince Dantan, carrying the message which could be trusted to no other. He
                        accompanied the Graustark ambassadors of peace as Dantan's special
                        agent. He went in the night time and Beverly did not see him. The week which
                        followed his departure was the longest she ever spent. She was troubled in
                        her heart for fear that he might  not return,
                        despite the declaration she had made to him in one hysterical moment. It was
                        difficult for her to keep up the show of cheerfulness that was expected of
                        her. Reticence became her strongest characteristic. She persistently refused
                        to be drawn into a discussion of her relations with the absent one. Yetive
                        was piqued by her manner at first, but wisely saw through the mask as time
                        went on. She and Prince Dantan had many quiet and interesting chats
                        concerning Beverly and the erstwhile guard. The prince took Lorry and the
                        princess into his confidence. He told them all there was to tell about his
                        dashing friend and companion.
                    Beverly and the young Princess Candace became fast and loving friends. The
                        young girl's worship of her brother was beautiful to behold. She
                        huddled close to him on every occasion, and her dark eyes bespoke adoration
                        whenever his name was mentioned in her presence.
                    "If he doesn't come back pretty soon, I'll pack up
                        and start for home," Beverly said to herself resentfully one day.
                        "Then if he wants to see me he'll have to come all the way
                        to Washin'ton. And I'm not sure that he can do it, either.
                        He's too disgustingly poor."
                    "Wha's became o' dat Misteh Baldos, Miss
                        Bev'ly?" asked Aunt Fanny in the midst of these sorry
                        cogitations. "Has he tuck hit int' his haid to desert us
                        fo' good? Seems to me he'd oughteh ----"
                    Now, that will do, Aunt Fanny," reprimanded  her mistress sternly. "You are not supposed
                        to know anything about affairs of state. So don't
                        ask."
                    At last she no longer could curb her impatience and anxiety. She deliberately
                        sought information from Prince Dantan. They were strolling in the park on
                        the seventh day of her inquisition.
                    "Have you heard from Paul Baldos?" she asked, bravely
                        plunging into deep water.
                    "He is expected here to-morrow or the next day, Miss Calhoun. I am
                        almost as eager to see him as you are," he replied, with a very
                        pointed smile.
                    "Almost? Well, yes, I'll confess that I am eager to see
                        him. I never knew I could long for anyone as much as I --- Oh, well,
                        there's no use hiding it from you. I couldn't if I tried.
                        I care very much for him. You don't think it sounds silly for me to
                        say such a thing, do you? I've thought a great deal of him ever
                        since the night at the Inn of the Hawk and Raven. In my imagination I have
                        tried to strip you of your princely robes to place them upon him. But he is
                        only Baldos, in spite of it all. He knows that I care for him, and I know
                        that he cares for me. Perhaps he has told you."
                    "Yes, he has confessed that he loves you, Miss Calhoun, and he
                        laments the fact that his love seems hopeless. Paul wonders in his heart if
                        it would be right in him to ask you to give up all you have of wealth and
                        pleasure to share a humble lot with him."
                    "I love him. Isn't that enough? There is no wealth so great
                        as that. But," and she pursed her mouth in pathetic despair,
                        "don't you think that you 
                        can make a noble or something of him and give him a station in life worthy
                        of his ambitions? He has done so much for you, you know."
                    " I have nothing that I can give to him, he says. Paul Baldos asks
                        only that he may be my champion until these negotiations are ended. Then he
                        desires to be free to serve whom he will. All that I can do is to let him
                        have his way. He is a freelance and he asks no favors, no
                        help."
                    "Well, I think he's perfectly ridiculous about it,
                        don't you? And yet, that is the very thing I like is him. I am only
                        wondering how we --- I mean, how he is going to live, that's
                        all."
                    " If I am correctly informed he still has several months to serve in
                        the service for which he enlisted. You alone, I believe, have the power to
                        discharge him before his term expires," said he meaningly.
                    That night Baldos returned to Edelweiss, ahead of the Graustark delegation
                        which was coming the next day with representatives from Dawsbergen. He
                        brought the most glorious news from the frontier. The Duke of Matz and the
                        leading dignitaries had heard of Gabriel's capture, both through
                        the Bappo boys and through a few of his henchmen who had staggered into camp
                        after the disaster. The news threw the Dawsbergen diplomats into a
                        deplorable state of uncertainty. Even the men high in authority, while not
                        especially depressed over the fall of their sovereign, were in doubt as to
                        what would be the next move in their series of tragedies. Almost to a man
                        they regretted the folly which had drawn them into  the net with Gabriel. Baldos reported that the Duke
                        of Matz and a dozen of the most distinguished men in Dawsbergen were on
                        their way to Edelweiss to complete arrangements for peace and to lay their
                        renunciation of Gabriel before Dantan in a neutral court. The people of
                        Dawsbergen had been clamoring long for Dantan's restoration, and
                        Baldos was commissioned to say that his return would be the signal for great
                        rejoicing. He was closeted until after midnight with Dantan and his sister,
                        Lorry and Princess Yetive being called in at the end to hear and approve of
                        the manifesto prepared by the Prince of Dawsbergen. The next morning the
                        word went forth that a great banquet was to be given in the castle that
                        night for Prince Dantan and the approaching noblemen. The prince expected to
                        depart almost immediately thereafter to resume the throne in Serros.
                    Baldos was wandering through the park early in the morning. His duties rested
                        lightly upon his shoulders, but he was restless and dissatisfied. The
                        longing in his heart urged him to turn his eyes ever and anon toward the
                        balcony and then to the obstinate-looking castle doors. The uniform of a
                        Graustark guard still graced his splendid figure. At last a graceful form
                        was seen coming from the castle toward the cedars. She walked bravely, but
                        aimlessly. That was plain to be seen. It was evident that she was and was
                        not looking for some one. Baldos observed with a thrill of delight that a
                        certain red feather stood up defiantly from the band of her sailor hat. He
                             liked the way her dark-blue walking-skirt
                        swished in harmony with her lithe, firm strides.
                    She was quite near before he advanced from his place among the trees. He did
                        not expect her to exhibit surprise or confusion and he was not disappointed.
                        She was as cool as a brisk spring morning. He did not offer his hand, but,
                        with a fine smile of contentment, bowed low and with mock servility.
                    "I report for duty, your highness," he said. She caught the
                        ring of gladness in his voice.
                    "Then I command you to shake hands with me," she said
                        brightly. "You have been away, I believe?" with a
                        delicious inflection.
                    "Yes, for a century or more, I'm sure." Constraint
                        fell upon them suddenly. The hour had come for a definite understanding and
                        both were conquered by its importance. For the first time in his life he
                        knew the meaning of diffidence. It came over him as he looked helplessly
                        into the clear, gray, earnest eyes. "I love you for wearing that
                        red feather," he said simply.
                    "And I loved you for wearing it," she answered, her voice
                        soft and thrilling. He caught his breath joyously.
                    "Beverly," as he bent over her, "you are my very
                        life, my ----"
                    "Don't, Paul!" she whispered, drawing away with an
                        embarrassed glance about the park. There were people to be seen on all
                        sides. But he had forgotten them. He thought only of the girl who ruled his
                             heart. Seeing the pain in his face, she
                        hastily, even blushingly, said: "It is so public,
                        dear."
                    He straightened himself with soldierly precision, but his voice trembled as
                        he tried to speak calmly in defiance to his eyes. "There is the
                        grotto --- see! It is seclusion itself. Will you come with me? I must tell
                        you all that is in my heart. It will burst if I do not."
                    Slowly they made their way to the fairy grotto deep in the thicket of trees.
                        It was Yetive's favorite dreaming place. Dark and cool and musical
                        with the rippling of waters, it was an ideal retreat. She dropped upon the
                        rustic bench that stood against the moss-covered wall of boulders. With the
                        gentle reserve of a man who reveres as well as loves, Baldos stood above
                        her. He waited and she understood. How unlike most impatient lovers he
                        was!
                    "You may sit beside me," she said with a wistful smile of
                        acknowledgment. As he flung himself into the scat, his hand eagerly sought
                        hers, his courtly reserve gone to the winds.
                    "Beverly, dearest one, you never can know how much I love
                        you," he whispered into her ear. "It is a deathless love,
                        unconquerable, unalterable. It is in my blood to love forever. Listen to me,
                        dear one: I come of a race whose love is hot and enduring. My people from
                        time immemorial have loved as no other people have loved. They have killed
                        and slaughtered for the sake of the glorious passion. Love is the religion
                        of my people. You must, you shall believe me when I say that I will love you
                        better than my soul  so long as that soul
                        exists. I loved you the day I met you. It has been worship since that
                        time."
                    His passion carried her resistlessly away as the great waves sweep the deck
                        of a ship at sea. She was out in the ocean of love, far from all else that
                        was dear to her, far from all harbors save the mysterious one to which his
                        passion was piloting her through a storm of emotion.
                    "I have longed so to hold you in my arms, Beverly --- even when you
                        were a princess and I lay in the hospital at Ganlook, my fevered arms
                        hungered for you. There never has been a moment that my heart has not been
                        reaching out in search of yours. You have glorified me, dearest, by the
                        promise you made a week ago. I know that you will not renounce that precious
                        pledge. It is in your eyes now --- the eyes I shall worship to the end of
                        eternity. Tell me, though, with your own lips, your own voice, that you will
                        be my wife, mine to hold forever."
                    For answer she placed her arms about his neck and buried her face against his
                        shoulder. There were tears in her gray eyes and there was a sob in her
                        throat. He held her close to his breast for an eternity, it seemed to both,
                        neither giving voice to the song their hearts were singing. There was no
                        other world than the fairy grotto.
                    "Sweetheart, I am asking you to make a great sacrifice," he
                        said at last, his voice hoarse hut tender. She looked up into his face
                        serenely. "Can you give up the joys, the wealth, the comforts of
                        that home across the sea to share a lowly cottage with me and  my love? Wait, dear, --- do not speak until I am
                        through. You must think of what your friends will say. The love and life I
                        offer you now will not be like that which you always have known. It will be
                        poverty and the dregs, not riches and wine. It will be ----"
                    But she placed her hand upon his lips, shaking her head emphatically. The
                        picture he was painting was the same one that she had studied for days and
                        days. Its every shadow was familiar to her, its every un-wholesome corner
                        was as plain as day.
                    "The rest of the world may think what it likes, Paul," she
                        said. "It will make no difference to me. I have awakened from my
                        dream. My dream prince is gone, and I find that it's the real man
                        that I love. What would you have me do? Give you up because you are poor? Or
                        would you have me go up the ladder of fame and prosperity with you, a humble
                        but adoring burden? I know you, dear. You will not always be poor. They may
                        say what they like. I have thought long and well, because I am not a fool.
                        It is the American girl who marries the titled foreigner without love that
                        is a fool. Marrying a poor man is too serious a business to be handled by
                        fools. I have written to my father, telling him that I am going to marry
                        you," she announced. He gasped with unbelief.
                    "You have --- already?" he cried.
                    "Of course. My mind has been made up for more than a week. I told it
                        to Aunt Fanny last night."
                    "And she?"
                    
                    "She almost died, that's all," said she
                        unblushingly. "I was afraid to cable the news to father. He might
                        stop me if he knew it in time. A letter was much smarter."
                    "You dear, dear little sacrifice," he cried tenderly.
                        "I will give all my life to make you happy."
                    "I am a soldier's daughter, and I can be a
                        soldier's wife. I have tried hard to give you up, Paul, but I
                        couldn't. You are love's soldier, dear, and it is a --- a
                        relief to surrender and have it over with."
                    They fell to discussing plans for the future. It all went smoothly and airily
                        until he asked her when he should go to Washington to claim her as his wife.
                        She gave him a startled, puzzled look.
                    "To Washin'ton?" she murmured, turning very cold
                        and weak. "You --- you won't have to go to
                        Washin'ton, dear; I'll stay here."
                    "My dear Beverly, I can afford the trip," he laughed.
                        "I am not an absolute pauper. Besides, it is right and just that
                        your father should give you to me. It is the custom of our land."
                        She was nervous and uncertain.
                    "But --- but, Paul, there are many things to think of," she
                        faltered.
                    "You mean that your father would not consent?"
                    "Well, --- he --- he might be unreasonable," she
                        stanimered. "And then there are my brothers, Keith and Dan. They
                        are foolishly interested in me. Dan thinks no one is good enough for me. So
                        does Keitlh. And father, too, for that matter, --- and mother. You see,
                        it's not just as if you were a grand 
                        and wealthy nobleman. They may not understand. We are southerners, you know.
                        Some of them have peculiar ideas about ----"
                    "Don't distress yourself so much, dearest," he
                        said with a laugh. "Though I see your position clearly --- and it
                        is not an enviable one."
                    "We can go to Washin'ton just as soon as we are
                        married," she compromised. "Father has a great deal of
                        influence over there. With his help behind you you will soon be a power in
                        the United ----" but his hearty laugh checked her eager plotting.
                        "It's nothing to laugh at, Paul," she said.
                    "I beg your pardon a thousand times. I was thinking of the
                        disappointment I must give you now. I cannot live in the United States ---
                        never. My home is here. I am not born for the strife of your land. They have
                        soldiers enough and better than I. It is in the turbulent east that we shall
                        live --- you and I." Tears came into hier eyes.
                    "Am I not to --- to go back to Washin'ton? " She
                        tried to smile.
                    "When Prince Dantan says we may, perhaps."
                    "Oh, he is my friend," she cried in great relief.
                        "I can get any favor I ask of him. Oh, Paul, Paul, I know that my
                        folks will think I'm an awful fool, but I can't help it. I
                        shall let you know that I intend to be a blissful one, at
                        least."
                    He kissed her time and again, out there in the dark, soft light of the fairy
                        grotto.
                    "Before we can be married, dearest, I have a jour-  ney of some importance to take," he
                        announced, as they arose to leave the bower behind.
                    "A journey? Where?"
                    "To Vienna. I have an account to settle with a man who has just
                        taken up his residence there." His hand went to his sword-hilt and
                        his dark eyes gleamed with the fire she loved. "Count Marlanx and I
                        have postponed business to attend to, dearest. Have no fear for me. My sword
                        is honest and I shall bring it back to you myself."
                    She shuddered and knew that it would be as he said.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXI
                    CLEAR SKIES
                    THE Duke of Matz and his associates reached Edelweiss in the afternoon. Their
                        attendants and servants carried luggage bearing the princely crest of
                        Dawsbergen, and meant for Prince Dantan and his sister Candace. In the part
                        of the castle set apart for the visitors an important consultation was held
                        behind closed doors. There Dantan met his countrymen and permitted them to
                        renew the pledge of fealty that had been shattered by the overpowering
                        influence of his mad half-brother. What took place at this secret meeting
                        the outside world never knew. Only the happy result was made known. Prince
                        Dantan was to resume his reign over Dawsbergen, as if it never had been
                        interrupted.
                    The castle, brilliant from bottom to top, filled with music and laughter,
                        experienced a riot of happiness such as it had not known in years. The war
                        clouds had lifted, the sunshine of contentment was breaking through the
                        darkness, and there was rejoicing in the hearts of all. Bright and glorious
                        were the colors that made up the harmony of peace. Men and women  of high degree came to the historic old walls, garbed
                        in the riches of royalty and nobility. To Beverly Calhoun it was the most
                        enchanting sight she had ever looked upon. From the galleries she gazed down
                        into the halls glittering with the wealth of Graustark and was conscious of
                        a strange feeling of glorification. She felt that she had a part in this
                        jubilee. With Candace she descended the grand staircase and mingled with the
                        resplendent crowd.
                    She was the center of attraction. Dressed in a simple, close-fitting gown of
                        black velvet, without an ornament, her white arms and shoulders gleaming in
                        the soft light from the chandeliers, she was an enticing creature to be
                        admired by men and women alike. Two stalwart Americans felt their hearts
                        bound with pride as they saw the conquest their countrywoman was making.
                        Candace, her constant companion in these days, was consumed with
                        delight.
                    "You are the prettiest thing in all this world," she
                        ecstatically whispered into Beverly's ear. "My brother
                        says so, too," she added conclusively. Beverly was too true a woman
                        not to revel in this subtle flattery. The great banquet hall was to be
                        thrown open at midnight. There was dancing and song during the hours leading
                        up to this important event. Beverly was entranced. She had seen brilliant
                        affairs at home, but none of them compared to this in regal splendor. It was
                        the sensuous, overpowering splendor of the east.
                    Prince Dantan joined the throng just before mid-  night. He made his way direct to the little circle of which Beverly and
                        Candace formed the center. His rich, full military costume gave him a new
                        distinction that quite overcame Beverly. They fell into an animated
                        conversation, exchanging shafts of wit that greatly amused those who could
                        understand the language.
                    "You must remember," Beverly said in reply to one of
                        Ravone's sallies, "that Americans are not in the least
                        awed by Europe's greatness. It has come to the pass when we call
                        Europe our playground. We now go to Europe as we go to the circus or the
                        county fair at home. It isn't much more trouble, you know, and we
                        must see the sights."
                    "Alas, poor Europe!" he laughed. As he strolled about with
                        her and Candace he pointed out certain men to her, asking her to tax her
                        memory in the effort to recall their faces if not their apparel. She readily
                        recognized in the lean, tired faces the men she had met first at the Inn of
                        the Hawk and Raven.
                    "They were vagabonds then, Miss Calhoun. Now they are noblemen. Does
                        the transition startle you?"
                    "Isn't Baldos among them?" she asked, voicing the
                        query that had been uppermost in her mind since the moment when she looked
                        down from the galleries and failed to see him. She was wondering how he
                        would appear in court costume.
                    "You forget that Baldos is only a guard," he said
                        kindly.
                    "He is a courtier, nevertheless," she retorted. She was
                        vaguely disappointed because he was miss-  ing
                        from the scene of splendor. It proved to her that caste overcame all else in
                        the rock-ribbed east. The common man, no matter how valiant, had no place in
                        such affairs as these. Her pride was suffering. She was as a queen among the
                        noblest of the realm. As the wife of Baldos she would live in another world
                        --- on the outskirts of this one of splendor and arrogance. A stubborn,
                        defiant little frown appeared on her brow as she pictured herself in her
                        mind's eye standing afar off with "the man"
                        Baldos, looking at the opulence she could not reach. Her impetuous,
                        rebellious little heart was thumping bitterly as she considered this single
                        phase of the life to come. She was ready to cry out against the injustice of
                        it all. The little frown was portentous of deep-laid designs. She would
                        break down this cruel barrier that kept Baldos from the fields over which
                        prejudice alone held sway. Her love for him and her determination to be his
                        wife were not in the least dulled by these reflections.
                    The doors to the great banquet-hall were thrown open at last and in the
                        disorder that followed she wondered who was to lead her to the feasting. The
                        Duke of Mizrox claimed the Princess Candace.
                    "I am to have the honor," said someone at her side, and the
                        voice was the one she least expected to hear utter the words. The speaker
                        was the man who deserved the place beside Yetive --- Prince Dantan himself.
                        Bewildered, her heart palpitating with various emotions, she took his arm
                        and allowed herself to be drawn  wonderingly
                        through the massive doors. As they entered, followed by the brilliant
                        company, the superb orchestra that Beverly had so often enjoyed, began to
                        play the stirring "Hands Across the Sea." The musicians
                        themselves seemed to have caught the universal feeling of joy and mirth that
                        was in the air, and played as if inspired, their leader bowing low to the
                        young American girl as she passed. It was his affectionate tribute to her.
                        Prince Dantan, to her amazement, led her up the entire length of the banquet
                        hall, to the head of the royal table, gorgeous with the plate of a hundred
                        Graustark rulers, placing her on his left and next to the slightly raised
                        royal chairs. Candace was on his right, the picture of happiness. Beverly
                        felt dizzy, weak. She looked helplessly at Prince Dantan. His smile was
                        puzzling. As if in a daze, she saw Grenfall Lorry with the Countess Yvonne
                        standing exactly opposite to her, he with the others, awaiting the
                        appearance of the princess and the one who was to sit beside her.
                    The music ceased, there was a hush over the room, and then Yetive came
                        forward, magnificent in her royal robes, smiling and happy. A tall man in
                        the uniform of an exalted army officer stood beside her, gold braid and
                        bejeweled things across his breast. Beverly turned deathly white, her figure
                        stiffened and then relaxed.
                    It was Baldos!
                    She never knew how she dropped into the chair the servant held for her. She
                        only knew that his dark eyes were smiling at her with love and mischief in
                             their depths. There was a vague,
                        uncertain sound of chattering; someone was talking eagerly to her, but she
                        heard him not; there was a standing toast to the Prince of Dawsbergen; then
                        the audacious ghost of Baldos was proposing a ringing response to the
                        Princess Yetive; the orchestra was playing the Graustark and Dawsbergen
                        national hymns. But it was all as a dream to her. At last she heard Candace
                        calling to her, her face wreathed in smiles. Scores of eyes seemed to be
                        looking at her and all of them were full of amusement.
                    "Now, say that a girl can't keep a secret," came
                        to her ears from the radiant sister of Dantan. Ravone, at her side, spoke to
                        her, and she turned to him dizzily.
                    "You first knew me as Ravone, Miss Calhoun," he was saying
                        genially. "Then it became necessary, by royal command, for me to be
                        Prince Dantan. May I have the honor of introducing myself in the proper
                        person? I am Christobal of Rapp-Thorburg, and I shall be no other than he
                        hereafter. The friendship that binds me to Prince Dantan, at last in his
                        proper place beside the Princess of Graustark, is to be strengthened into a
                        dearer relationship before many days have passed."
                    "The Princess Candace ceases to be his sister," volunteered
                        the Duke of Mizrox. "She is and long has been his affianced
                        wife."
                    Enchanted and confused over all that had occurred in the last few moments,
                        Beverly murmured her heart-felt congratulations to the joyous couple. The
                        or-  chestra had again ceased playing. All
                        eyes turned to Baldos, --- the real Prince Dantan, --- who, glass in hand,
                        rose to his feet.
                    "Your Royal Highness, Ladies and Gentlemen: Graustark and Dawsbergen
                        are entering a new era. I pledge you my honor that never again shall the
                        slightest misunderstanding exist between them. They shall go forth to their
                        glorious destiny as one people. Your gracious ruler has seen fit to bestow
                        her hand and affections upon an American gentleman, your esteemed prince
                        consort. We all know how loyally the people have approved her choice. There
                        is one present, a trusted friend of your beautiful princess, and lovingly
                        called in your hearts, Beverly of Graustark. Whose example more worthy for
                        me to follow than that of the Princess Yetive? With whom could I better
                        share my throne and please you more than with your beloved American protege.
                        I ask you to drink a toast to my betrothed, Beverly Calhoun, the future
                        Princess of Dawsbergen."
                    Every glass was raised and the toast drunk amidst ringing cheers. The
                        military band crashed out the air so dear to all Americans, especially to
                        southern hearts. Beverly was too overcome to speak.
                    "You all ----!" she exclaimed.
                    There was a tremendous commotion in the gallery. People were standing in
                        their seats half frightened and amused, their attention attracted by the
                        unusual scene. A portly negress totally unconscious of the sensation she was
                        causing, her feet keeping time to the lively strains of music, was
                        frantically waving a  red and yellow bandanna
                        handkerchief. It was Aunt Fanny, and in a voice that could be heard all over
                        the banquet hall, she shouted: "Good Lawd, honey, ef der
                        ain't playin' 'Away Down South in
                        Dixie,' Hooray! Hooray!"
                    Hours later Beverly was running, confused and humbled, through the halls to
                        her room, when a swifter one than she came up and checked her flight.
                    "Beverly," cried an eager voice. She slackened her pace and
                        glanced over her shoulder. The smiling, triumphant face of Baldos met her
                        gaze. The upper hall was almost clear of people. She was strangely
                        frightened, distressingly diffident. Her door was not far away, and she
                        would have reached it in an instant later had he not laid a restraining,
                        compelling hand upon her arm. Then she turned to face him, her lips parted
                        in protest. "Don't look at me in that way," he
                        cried imploringly. "Come, dearest, come with me. We can be alone in
                        the nook at the end of the hall. Heavens, I am the happiest being in all the
                        world. It has turned out as I have prayed it should."
                    She allowed him to lead her to the darkened nook. In her soul she was
                        wondering why her tongue was so powerless. There were a hundred things she
                        wanted to say to him, but now that the moment had come she was voiceless.
                        She only could look helplessly at him. Joy seemed to be paralyzed within
                        her; it was as if she slept and could not be awakened. As she sank upon the
                        cushion he dropped to his knee 
                        
                            "I hated you to-night, I thought," she cried,
                                taking his face in her hands.
                        
                         before her, his hand clasping hers with a
                        fervor that thrilled her with life. As he spoke, her pulses quickened and
                        the blood began to race furiously.
                    "I have won your love, Beverly, by the fairest means. There has
                        never been an hour in which I have not been struggling for this glorious
                        end. You gave yourself to me when you knew I could be nothing more than the
                        humblest soldier. It was the sacrifice of love. You will forgive my
                        presumption --- my very insolence, dear one, when I tell you that my soul is
                        the forfeit I pay. It is yours through all eternity. I love you. I can give
                        you the riches of the world as well as the wealth of the heart. The vagabond
                        dies; your poor humble follower gives way to the supplicating prince. You
                        would have lived in a cot as the guardsman's wife; you will take
                        the royal palace instead?"
                    Beverly was herself again. The spell was gone. Her eyes swam with happiness
                        and love; the suffering her pride had sustained was swept into a heap
                        labeled romance, and she was rejoicing.
                    "I hated you to-night, I thought," she cried, taking his
                        face in her hands. "It looked as though you had played a trick on
                        me. It was mean, dear. I couldn't help thinking that you had used
                        me as a plaything and it --- it made me furious. But it is different now. I
                        see, oh, so plainly. And just as I had resigned myself to the thought of
                        spending the rest of my life in a cottage, away outside the pale of this
                        glorious life! Oh, it is like a fairy tale!"
                    "Ah, but it was not altogether a trick, dear one.  There was no assurance that I could regain the throne
                        --- not until the very last. Without it I should have been the beggar
                        instead of the prince. We would have lived in a hovel, after all. Fortune
                        was with me. I deceived you for months, Beverly --- my Beverly, but it was
                        for the best. In defense of my honor and dignity, however, I must tell you
                        that the princess has known for many days that I am Dantan. I told her the
                        truth when Christobal came that day with the news. It was all well enough
                        for me to pass myself off as a vagabond, but it would have been unpardonable
                        to foist him upon her as the prince."
                    "And she has known for a week?" cried Beverly in deep
                        chagrin.
                    "And the whole court has known."
                    "I alone was blind?"
                    "As blind as the proverb. Thank God, I won your love as a vagabond.
                        I can treasure it as the richest of my princely possessions. You have not
                        said that you will go to my castle with me, dear."
                    She leaked forward unsteadily and he took her in his eager arms. Their lips
                        met and their eyes closed in the ecstasy of bliss. After a long time she
                        lifted her lids and her eyes of gray looked solemnly into his dark ones.
                    "I have much to ask you about, many explanations to demand,
                        sir," she said threateningly.
                    " By the rose that shields my heart, you shall have the
                        truth," he laughed back at her. "I am still your servant.
                        My enlistment is endless. I shall always serve your highness."
                    
                    "Your highness!" she murmured reflectively. Then a joyous
                        smile of realization broke over her face. "Isn't it
                        wonderful?"
                    "Do you think your brothers will let me come to Washington,
                        now?" he asked teasingly.
                    " It does seem different, doesn't it?" she
                        murmured, with a strange little smile. "You will
                        come for me?"
                    "To the ends of the earth, your highness."
                    THE END
                
            
        
    
