
     ----CITATION---- 
        McCutcheon, George Barr, 1866-1928. The Prince of Graustark: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2358
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            	FRONTISPIECE
                
                    Her eyes were starry bright, her red lips were parted
                    
                        (Page 381)
                    
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    THE PRINCE OF GRAUSTARK
                
                BY
                    GEORGE BARR McCUTCHEON AUTHOR OF GRAUSTARK,
                    BEVERLY OF GRAUSTARK, ETC.
                WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY A. I. KELLER
                
                    NEW YORK
                    GROSSET & DUNLAP PUBLISHERS
                
            
            
            
            	VERSO
                COPYRIGHT, 1914, BY
                    DODD, MEAD AND COMPANY
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    I MR. AND MRS. BLITHERS DISCUSS MATRIMONY
                        1
                        
                    II TWO COUNTRIES DISCUSS MARRIAGE
                        14
                        
                    III MR. BLITHERS GOES VISITING
                        27
                        
                    IV PROTECTING THE BLOOD
                        43
                        
                    V PRINCE ROBIN IS ASKED TO STAND UP
                        58
                        
                    VI THE PRINCE AND MR. BLITHERS
                        73
                        
                    VII A LETTER FROM MAUD
                        95
                        
                    VIII ON BOARD THE
                            JUPITER
                        111
                        
                    IX THE PRINCE MEETS MISS GUILE
                        126
                        
                    X AN HOUR ON DECK
                        143
                        
                    XI THE LIEUTENANT RECEIVES ORDERS
                        158
                        
                    XII THE LIEUTENANT REPORTS
                        175
                        
                    XIII THE RED LETTER B 192
                        
                    XIV THE CAT IS AWAY
                        207
                        
                    XV THE MICE IN A TRAP
                        222
                        
                    XVI THREE MESSAGES
                        243
                        
                    XVII THE PRODIGAL DAUGHTER
                        259
                        
                    XVIII A WORD OF ENCOURAGEMENT
                        279
                        
                    XIX "WHAT WILL MY PEOPLE DO" 296
                        
                    XX LOVE IN ABEYANCE
                        313
                        
                    XXI MR. BLITHERS ARRIVES IN GRAUSTARK
                        329
                        
                    XXII A VISIT TO THE CASTLE
                        345
                        
                    XXIII PINGARI'S
                        367
                        
                    XIV JUST WHAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN EXPECTED
                        384
                        
                
            
            
            
                ILLUSTRATIONS
                
                    Her eyes were starry bright, her red lips were parted 
                            Frontispiece
                        
                        
                    "You will be her choice," said the other, without the
                        quiver of an eye-lash 92
                        
                    "I shall pray for continuous rough weather" 156
                        
                    The dignified Ministry of Graustark sat agape 362
                        
                
            
        
        
            
            
                THE PRINCE OF GRAUSTARK
                
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    MR. AND MRS. BLITHERS DISCUSS MATRIMONY
                    "MY DEAR," said Mr. Blithers, with
                        decision, "you can't tell me."
                    "I know I can't," said his wife, quite as
                        positively. She knew when she could tell him a thing and when she
                        couldn't.
                    It was quite impossible to impart information to Mr. Blithers when he had the
                        tips of two resolute fingers embedded in his ears. That happened to be his
                        customary and rather unfair method of conquering her when an argument was
                        going against him, not for want of logic on his part, but because it was
                        easier to express himself with his ears closed than with them open. By this
                        means he effectually shut out the voice of opposition and had the discussion
                        all to himself. Of course, it would have been more convincing if he had been
                        permitted to hear the sound of his own eloquence; still, it was effective.
                    She was sure to go on talking for two or three minutes and then subside in
                        despair. A woman will not talk to a stone wall. Nor will she wantonly allow
                        an argument to die while there remains the slightest chance of its survival.
                        Given the same situation, a man would get up and leave his wife sitting
                        there with her fingers in her ears; and, as he bolted from the room in high
                        dudgeon, he would be mean enough to call attention  to her pig-headedness. In most cases, a woman is content to
                        listen to a silly argument rather than to leave the room just because her
                        husband elects to be childish about a perfectly simple elucidation of the
                        truth.
                    Mrs. Blithers had lived with Mr. Blithers, more or less, for twenty-five
                        years and she knew him like a book. He was a forceful person who would have
                        his own way, even though he had to put his fingers in his ears to get it. At
                        one period of their joint connubial agreement, when he had succeeded in
                        accumulating a pitiful hoard amounting to but little more than ten millions
                        of dollars, she concluded to live abroad for the purpose of educating their
                        daughter, allowing him in the meantime to increase his fortune to something
                        like fifty millions without having to worry about household affairs. But she
                        had sojourned with him long enough, at odd times, to realise that, so long
                        as he lived, he would never run away from an argument unless, by some
                        dreadful hook or crook, he should be so unfortunate as to be deprived of the
                        use of both hands. She found room to gloat, of course, in the fact that he
                        was obliged to stop up his ears in order to shut out the incontrovertible.
                    Moreover, when he called her "my dear" instead of the
                        customary Lou, it was a sign of supreme obstinacy on his part and could not,
                        by any stretch of the imagination, be regarded as an indication of placid
                        affection. He always said "my dear" at the top of his
                        voice and with a great deal of irascibility.
                    
                    Mr. William W. Blithers was a self-made man who had begun his career by
                        shouting lustily at a team of mules in a railway construction camp. Other
                        drivers had tried to improve on his vocabulary but even the mules were able
                        to appreciate the futility of such an ambition, and later on, when he came
                        to own two or three railroads, to say nothing of a few mines and a steam
                        yacht, his ability to drive men was even more noteworthy than his power over
                        the jackasses had been. But driving mules and men was one thing, driving a
                        wife another. What incentive has a man, said he, when after he gets through
                        bullying a creature that very creature turns in and caresses him? No
                        self-respecting mule ever did such a thing as that, and no man would think
                        of it except with horror. There is absolutely no defence against a creature
                        who will rub your head with loving, gentle fingers after she has worked you
                        up to the point where you could kill her with pleasure or at least so said
                        Mr. Blithers with rueful frequency.
                    Mr. and Mrs. Blithers had been discussing royalty. Up to the previous week
                        they had restricted themselves to the nobility, but as an event of
                        unexampled importance had transpired in the interim, they now felt that it
                        would be the rankest stupidity to consider any one short of a Prince Royal
                        in picking out a suitable husband or, more properly speaking, consort for
                        their only daughter, Maud Applegate Blithers, aged twenty.
                    Mrs. Blithers long ago had convinced her husband 
                        that no ordinary human being of the male persuasion was worthy of their
                        daughter's hand, and had set her heart on having nothing meaner
                        than a Duke on the family roll,(Blithers alluded to it for a while as the
                        pay-roll), with the choice lying between England and Italy. At first,
                        Blithers, being an honest soul, insisted that a good American gentleman was
                        all that anybody could ask for in the way of a son-in-law, and that when it
                        came to a grandchild it would be perfectly proper to christen him Duke lots
                        of people did! and that was about all that a title amounted to anyway. She
                        met this with the retort that Maud might marry a man named Jones, and how
                        would Duke Jones sound? He weakly suggested that they could christen him
                        Marmaduke and but she reminded him of his oft-repeated boast that there was
                        nothing in the world too good for Maud and instituted a pictorial campaign
                        against his prejudices by painting in the most alluring colours the picture
                        of a ducal palace in which the name of Jones would never be uttered except
                        when employed in directing the fifth footman or the third stable-boy or
                        perhaps a scullery maid to do this, that or the other thing at the behest of
                        her Grace, the daughter of William W. Blithers. This eventually worked on
                        his imagination to such an extent that he forgot his natural pride and
                        admitted that perhaps she was right.
                    But now, just as they were on the point of accepting, in lieu of a Duke, an
                        exceptionally promising Count, the aforesaid event conspired to completely,
                             upset all of their plans or notions, so to
                        speak. It was nothing less than the arrival in America of an eligible Prince
                        of the royal blood, a ruling Prince at that. As a matter of fact he had not
                        only arrived in America but upon the vast estate adjoining their own in the
                        Catskills.
                    Fortunately nothing definite had been arranged with the Count. Mrs. Blithers
                        now advised waiting a while before giving a definite answer to his somewhat
                        eager proposal, especially as he was reputed to have sufficient means of his
                        own to defend the chateau against any immediate peril of profligacy. She
                        counselled Mr. Blithers to notify him that he deemed it wise to take the
                        matter under advisement for a couple of weeks at least, but not to commit
                        himself to anything positively negative.
                    Mr. Blithers said that he had never heard anything so beautifully adroit as
                        "positively negative," and directed his secretary to
                        submit to him without delay the draft of a tactful letter to the anxious
                        nobleman. They were agreed that a Prince was more to be desired than a Count
                        and, as long as they were actually about it, they might as well aim high.
                        Somewhat hazily Mr. Blithers had inquired if it wouldn't be worth
                        while to consider a King, but his wife set him straight in short order.
                    Peculiarly promising to their hopes was the indisputable fact that the
                        Prince's mother had married an American, thereby establishing a
                        precedent behind which no constitutional obstacle could thrive, and had  lived very happily with the gentleman in spite
                        of the critics. Moreover, she had met him while sojourning on American soil,
                        and that was certainly an excellent augury for the success of the present
                        enterprise. What could be more fitting than that the son should follow in
                        the footsteps of an illustrious mother? If an American gentleman was worthy
                        of a princess, why not the other way about? Certainly Maud Blithers was as
                        full of attributes as any man in America.
                    It appears that the Prince, after leisurely crossing the continent on his way
                        around the world, had come to the Truxton Kings for a long-promised and
                        much-desired visit, the duration of which depended to some extent on his own
                        inclinations, and not a little on the outcome of the war-talk that affected
                        two great European nations Russia and Austria. Ever since the historic war
                        between the Balkan allies and the Turks, in 1912 and 1913, there had been
                        mutterings, and now the situation had come to be admittedly precarious. Mr.
                        Blithers was in a position to know that the little principality over which
                        the young man reigned was bound to be drawn into the cataclysm, not as a
                        belligerent or an ally, but in the matter of a loan that inconveniently
                        expired within the year and which would hardly be renewed by Russia with the
                        prospect of vast expenditures of war threatening her treasury. The loan
                        undoubtedly would be called and Graustark was not in a position to pay out
                        of her own slender resources, two years of famine having fallen upon the  people at a time when prosperity was most to be
                        desired.
                    He was in touch with the great financial movements in all the
                        world's capitals, and he knew that retrenchment was the watchword.
                        It would be no easy matter for the little principality to negotiate a loan
                        at this particular time, nor was there even a slender chance that Russia
                        would be benevolently disposed toward her debtors, no matter how small their
                        obligations. They who owed would be called upon to pay, they who petitioned
                        would be turned away with scant courtesy. It was the private opinion of Mr.
                        Blithers that the young Prince and the trusted agents who accompanied him on
                        his journey, were in the United States solely for the purpose of arranging a
                        loan through sources that could only be reached by personal appeal. But,
                        naturally, Mr. Blithers couldn't breathe this to a soul. Under the
                        circumstances he couldn't even breathe it to his wife who, he
                        firmly believed, was soulless.
                    But all this is beside the question. The young Prince of Graustark was
                        enjoying American hospitality, and no matter what he owed to Russia, America
                        owed to him its most punctillious consideration. If Mr. Blithers was to have
                        anything to say about the matter, it would be for the ear of the Prince
                        alone and not for the busybodies.
                    The main point is that the Prince was now rusticating within what you might
                        call a stone's throw of the capacious and lordly country residence
                        of Mr. Blithers; moreover, he was an uncommonly attractive chap,  with a laugh that was so charged with
                        heartiness that it didn't seem possible that he could have a drop
                        of royal blood in his vigorous young body. And the perfectly ridiculous part
                        of the whole situation was that Mr. and Mrs. King lived in a modest,
                        vine-covered little house that could have been lost in the
                        servants' quarters at Blitherwood. Especially aggravating, too, was
                        the attitude of the Kings. They were really nobodies, so to speak, and yet
                        they blithely called their royal guest "Bobby" and allowed
                        him to fetch and carry for their women-folk quite as if he were an ordinary
                        whipper-snapper up from the city to spend the week-end.
                    The remark with which Mr. Blithers introduces this chapter was in response to
                        an oft-repeated declaration made by his wife in the shade of the red, white
                        and blue awning of the terrace overlooking, from its despotic heights, the
                        modest red roof of the King villa in the valley below. Mrs. Blithers merely
                        had stated but over and over again that money couldn't buy
                        everything in the world, referring directly to social eminence and
                        indirectly to their secret ambition to capture a Prince of the royal blood
                        for their daughter Maud. She had prefaced this opinion, however, with the
                        exceedingly irritating insinuation that Mr. Blithers was not in his right
                        mind when he proposed inviting the Prince to spend a few weeks at
                        Blitherwood, provided the young man could cut short his visit in the home of
                        Mr. and Mrs. King, who, he had asseverated, were not in a position to
                        entertain royalty  as royalty was in the habit
                        of being entertained.
                    Long experience had taught Mr. Blithers to read the lip and eye language with
                        some degree of certainty, so by watching his wife's indignant face
                        closely he was able to tell when she was succumbing to reason. He was a
                        burly, domineering person who reasoned for every one within range of his
                        voice, and it was only when his wife became coldly sarcastic that he closed
                        his ears and boomed his opinions into her very teeth, so to say, joyfully
                        overwhelming her with facts which it were futile for her to attempt to deny.
                        He was aware, quite as much so as if he had heard the words, that she was
                        now saying:
                    "Well, there is absolutely no use arguing with you, Will. Have it
                        your way if it pleases you."
                    Eying her with some uneasiness, he cautiously inserted his thumbs in the
                        armholes of his brocaded waistcoat, and proclaimed:
                    "As I said before, Lou, there isn't a foreign nobleman,
                        from the Emperor down, who is above grabbing a few million dollars.
                        They're all hard up, and what do they gain by marrying ladies of
                        noble birth if said ladies are the daughters of noblemen who are as hard up
                        as all the rest of 'em? Besides, hasn't Maud been
                        presented at Court? Didn't you see to that? How about that pearl
                        necklace I gave her when she was presented? Wasn't it the talk of
                        the season? There wasn't a Duke in England who didn't
                        figure the cost of that necklace to within a guinea or two. No girl ever had
                        better advertising than "
                    
                    "We were speaking of Prince Robin," remarked his wife, with
                        a slight shudder. Mrs. Blithers came of better stock than her husband. His
                        gaucheries frequently set her teeth on edge. She was born in Providence and
                        sometimes mentioned the occurrence when particularly desirous of squelching
                        him, not unkindly, perhaps but by way of making him realise that their
                        daughter had good blood in her veins. Mr. Blithers had heard, in a
                        round-about way, that he first saw the light of day in Jersey City, although
                        after he became famous Newark claimed him. He did not bother about the
                        matter.
                    "Well, he's like all the rest of them," said he,
                        after a moment of indecision. Something told him that he really ought to
                        refrain from talking about the cost of things, even in the bosom of his
                        family. He had heard that only vulgarians speak of their possessions.
                        "Now, there's no reason in the world why we
                        shouldn't consider his offer. He "
                    "Offer?" she cried, aghast. "He has made no offer,
                        Will. He doesn't even know that Maud is in existence. How can you
                        say such a thing?"
                    "I was merely looking ahead, that's all. My motto is
                        'Look Ahead.' You know it as well as I do. Where would I
                        be to-day if I hadn't looked ahead and seen what was going to
                        happen before the other fellow had his eyes open? Will you tell me that?
                        Where, I say? What's more, where would I be now if I
                        hadn't looked ahead and seen what a marriage with the daughter of
                        Judge Morton would mean to me in the long 
                        run?" He felt that he had uttered a very pretty and convincing
                        compliment. "I never made a bad bargain in my life, Lou, and it
                        wasn't guess-work when I married you. You, my dear old girl, you
                        were the solid foundation on which I "
                    "I know," she said wearily; "you've said
                        it a thousand times: 'The foundation on which I built my temple of
                        posterity' yes, I know, Will. But I am still unalterably opposed to
                        making ourselves ridiculous in the eyes of Mr. and Mrs. King."
                    "Ridiculous? I don't understand you."
                    "Well, you will after you think it over," she said quietly,
                        and he scowled in positive perplexity.
                    "Don't you think he'd be a good match for
                        Maud?" he asked, after many minutes. He felt that he had thought it
                        over.
                    "Are you thinking of kidnapping him, Will?" she demanded.
                    "Certainly not! But all you've got to do is to say that
                        he's the man for Maud and I'll I'll do the rest.
                        That's the kind of a man I am, Lou. You say you don't want
                        Count What's-His-Name, that is, you don't want him as much
                        as you did, and you do say that -t would be the grandest
                        thing in the world if Maud could be the Princess of Grosstick "
                    "Graustark, Will."
                    "That's what I said. Well, if you want her to be the
                        Princess of THAT, I'll see that she is, providing
                        this fellow is a gentleman and worthy of her. The only
                        Prince I ever knew was a damned rascal, and I'm  going to be careful about this one. You
                        remember that measly "
                    "There is no question about Prince Robin," said she
                        sharply.
                    "I suppose the only question is, how much will he want?"
                    "You mean settlement?"
                    "Sure."
                    "Have you no romance in your soul, William Blithers?"
                    "I never believed in fairy stories," said he grimly.
                        "And what's more, I don't take any stock in cheap
                        novels in which American heroes go about marrying into royal families and
                        all that sort of rot. It isn't done, Lou. If you want to marry into
                        a royal family you've got to put up the coin."
                    "Prince Robin's mother, the poor Princess Yetive, married
                        an American for love, let me remind you."
                    "Umph! Where is this Groostock anyway?"
                    " 'Somewhere east of the setting sun,' "
                        she quoted. "You must learn how to pronounce
                        it."
                    "I never was good at foreign languages. By the way, where is Maud
                        this afternoon?"
                    "Motoring."
                    He waited for additional information. It was not vouchsafed, so he demanded
                        somewhat fearfully:
                    "Who with?"
                    "Young Scoville."
                    He scowled. "He's a loafer, Lou. No good in the world. I
                        don't like the way you let "
                    
                    "He is of a very good family, my dear. I "
                    "Is he er in love with her?"
                    "Certainly."
                    "Good Lord!"
                    "And why not? Isn't every one she meets in love with
                        her?"
                    "I I suppose so," he admitted sheepishly. His face
                        brightened. "And there's no reason why this Prince
                        shouldn't fall heels over head, is there? Well, there you are! That
                        will make a difference in the settlement, believe me a difference of a
                        couple of millions at least, if "
                    She arose abruptly. "You are positively disgusting, Will.
                        Can't you think of anything but "
                    "Say, ain't that Maudie coming up the drive
                        now- Sure it is! By gracious, did you ever see anything
                        to beat her? She's got 'em all beat a mile when it comes
                        to looks and style and Oh, by the way," lowering his voice to a
                        hoarse, confidential whisper, " I wouldn't say anything to
                        her about the marriage just yet if I were you. I want to look him over
                        first."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    TWO COUNTRIES DISCUSS MARRIAGE
                    PRINCE ROBIN of Graustark was as
                        good-looking a chap as one would see in a week's journey. Little
                        would one suspect him of being the descendant of a long and distinguished
                        line of princes, save for the unmistakeable though indefinable something in
                        his eye that exacted rather than invited the homage of his fellow man. His
                        laugh was a free and merry one, his spirits as effervescent as wine, his
                        manner blithe and boyish; yet beneath all this fair and guileless exposition
                        of carelessness lay the sober integrity of caste. It looked out through the
                        steady, unswerving eyes, even when they twinkled with mirth; it met the gaze
                        of the world with a serene imperiousness that gave way before no mortal
                        influence; it told without boastfulness a story of centuries. For he was the
                        son of a princess royal, and the blood of ten score rulers of men had come
                        down to him as a heritage of strength.
                    His mother, the beautiful, gracious and lamented Yetive, set all royal
                        circles by the ears when she married the American, Lorry, back in the
                        nineties. A special act of the ministry had legalised this union and the son
                        of the American was not deprived of his right to succeed to the throne which
                        his forebears had occupied for centuries. From his mother he had inherited
                        the right of kings, from his father the spirit of  freedom; from his mother the power of majesty, from his father
                        the power to see beyond that majesty. When little more than a babe in arms
                        he was orphaned and the affairs of state fell upon the shoulders of three
                        loyal and devoted men who served as regents until he became of age.
                    Wisely they served both him and the people through the years that intervened
                        between the death of the Princess and her consort and the day when he
                        reached his majority. That day was a glorious one in Graustark. The people
                        worshipped the little Prince when he was in knickerbockers and played with
                        toys; they saw him grow to manhood with hearts that were full of hope and
                        contentment; they made him their real ruler with the same joyous spirit that
                        had attended him in the days when he sat in the great throne and
                        "made believe" that he was one of the mighty, despite the
                        fact that his little legs barely reached to the edge of the gold and silver
                        seat, and slept soundly through all the befuddling sessions of the cabinet.
                        He was seven when the great revolt headed by Count Marlanx came so near to
                        overthrowing the government, and he behaved like the Prince that he was. It
                        was during those perilous times that he came to know the gallant Truxton
                        King in whose home he was now a happy guest. But before Truxton King he knew
                        the lovely girl who became the wife of that devoted adventurer, and who, to
                        him, was always to be "Aunt Loraine."
                    As a very small boy he had paid two visits to the homeland of his father, but
                        after the death of his parents  his valuable
                        little person was guarded so jealously by his subjects that not once had he
                        set foot beyond the borders of Graustark, except on two widely separated
                        occasions of great pomp and ceremony at the courts of Vienna and St.
                        Petersburgh, and a secret journey to London when he was seventeen. (It
                        appears that he was determined to see a great football match.) On each of
                        these occasions he was attended by watchful members of the cabinet and
                        certain military units in the now far from insignificant standing army. As a
                        matter of fact, he witnessed the football match from the ordinary stands,
                        surrounded by thousands of unsuspecting Britons, but carefully wedged in
                        between two generals of his own army and flanked by a minister of police, a
                        minister of the treasury and a minister of war, all of whom were excessively
                        bored by the contest and more or less appalled by his unregal enthusiasm. He
                        had insisted on going to the match incog, to enjoy it for all it was worth
                        to the real spectators those who sit or stand where the compression is not
                        unlike that applied to a box of sardines.
                    The regency expired when he was twenty years of age, and he became ruler in
                        fact, of himself as well as of the half-million subjects who had waited
                        patiently for the great day that was to see him crowned and glorified. Not
                        one was there in that goodly half million who stood out against him on that
                        triumphant day; not one who possessed a sullen or resentful heart. He was
                        their Prince, and they loved him well. After that wonderful coronation day
                        he would never forget  that he was a Prince or
                        that the hearts of a half million were to throb with love for him so long as
                        he was man as well as Prince.
                    Mr. Blithers was very close to the truth when he said (to himself, if you
                        remember) that the financial situation in the far-off principality was not
                        all that could be desired. It is true that Graustark was in
                        Russia's debt to the extent of some twenty million gavvos, about
                        thirty millions of dollars, in other words, and that the day of reckoning
                        was very near at hand. The loan was for a period of twelve years, and had
                        been arranged contrary to the advice of John Tullis, an American financier
                        who long had been interested in the welfare of the principality through
                        friendship for the lamented Prince Consort, Lorry. He had been farsighted
                        enough to realise that Russia would prove a hard creditor, even though she
                        may have been sincere in her protestations of friendship for the modest
                        borrower.
                    A stubborn element in the cabinet overcame his opposition, however, and the
                        debt was contracted, taxation increased by popular vote and a period of
                        governmental thriftiness inaugurated. Railroads, highways, bridges and
                        aqueducts were built, owned and controlled by the state, and the city of
                        Edelweiss rebuilt after the devastation created during the revolt of Count
                        Marlanx and his minions. There seemed to be some prospect of vindication for
                        the ministry and Tullis, who lived in Edelweiss, was fair-minded enough to
                        admit that their action appeared to have been for  the best. The people had prospered and taxes were paid in full
                        and without complaint. The reserve fund grew steadily and surely and there
                        was every prospect that when the huge debt came due it would be paid in
                        cash. But on the very crest of their prosperity came adversity. For two
                        years the crops failed and a pestilence swept through the herds. The flood
                        of gavvos that had been pouring into the treasury dwindled into a pitiful
                        rivulet; the little that came in was applied, of necessity, to
                        administration purposes and the maintenance of the army, and there was not
                        so much as a penny left over for the so-called sinking fund.
                    A year of grace remained. The minister of finance had long since recovered
                        from the delusion that it would be easy to borrow from England or France to
                        pay the Russians, there being small prospect of a renewal by the Czar even
                        for a short period at a higher rate of interest. The great nations of Europe
                        made it plain to the little principality that they would not put a finger in
                        Russia's pie at this stage of the game. Russia was ready to go to
                        war with her great neighbour, Austria. Diplomacy caution, if you will, made
                        it imperative that other nations should sit tight and look to their own
                        knitting, so to say. Not one could afford to be charged with befriending,
                        even in a round-about way, either of the angry grumblers.
                    It was only too well known in diplomatic circles that Russia coveted the
                        railroads of Graustark, as a means of throwing troops into a remote and
                        almost impregnable portion of Austria. If the debt were  paid promptly, it would be impossible, according to
                        international law, for the great White Bear to take over these roads and at
                        least a portion of the western border of the principality. Obviously,
                        Austria would be benefitted by the prompt lifting of the debt, but her own
                        relations with Russia were so strained that an offer to come to the rescue
                        of Graustark would be taken at once as an open affront and vigorously
                        resented. Her hands were tied.
                    The northern and western parts of Graustark were rich with productive mines.
                        The government had built railroads throughout these sections so that the
                        yield of coal and copper might be given an outlet to the world at large. In
                        making the loan, Russia had demanded these prosperous sections as security
                        for the vast sum advanced, and Graustark in an evil hour had submitted,
                        little suspecting the trick that Dame Nature was to play in the end.
                    Private banking institutions in Europe refused to make loans under the rather
                        exasperating circumstances, preferring to take no chances. Money was not
                        cheap in these bitter days, neither in Europe nor America. Caution was the
                        watchword. A vast European war was not improbable, despite the sincere
                        efforts on the part of the various nations to keep out of the controversy.
                    Nor was Mr. Blithers far from right in his shrewd surmise that Prince Robin
                        and his agents were not without hope in coming to America at this particular
                        time. Graustark had laid by barely half the amount  required to lift the debt to Russia. It was not beyond the
                        bounds of reason to expect her Prince to secure the remaining fifteen
                        millions through private sources in New York City.
                    Six weeks prior to his arrival in New York, the young Prince landed in San
                        Francisco. He had come by way of the Orient, accompanied by the Chief of
                        Staff of the Graustark Army, Count Quinnox, hereditary watch-dog to the
                        royal family! and a young lieutenant of the guard, Boske Dank. Two men were
                        they who would have given a thousand lives in the service of their Prince.
                        No less loyal was the body-servant who looked after the personal wants of
                        the eager young traveller, an Englishman of the name of Hobbs. A very poor
                        valet was he, but an exceptionally capable person when it came to the
                        checking of luggage and the divining of railway time-tables. He had been an
                        agent for Cook's. It was quite impossible to miss a train that
                        Hobbs suspected of being the right one.
                    Prince Robin came unheralded and traversed the breadth of the continent
                        without attracting more than the attention that is bestowed upon
                        good-looking young men. Like his mother, nearly a quarter of a century
                        before, he travelled incognito. But where she had used the somewhat emphatic
                        name of Guggenslocker, he was known to the hotel registers as "Mr.
                        R. Schmidt and servant."
                    There was romance in the eager young soul of Prince Robin. He revelled in the
                        love story of his  parents. The beautiful
                        Princess Yetive first saw Grenfell Lorry in an express train going eastward
                        from Denver. Their wonderful romance was born, so to speak, in a Pullman
                        compartment car, and it thrived so splendidly that it almost upset a
                        dynasty, for never in all of nine centuries had a ruler of Graustark stooped
                        to marriage with a commoner.
                    And so when the far-sighted ministry and House of Nobles in Graustark set
                        about to select a wife for their young ruler, they made overtures to the
                        Prince of Dawsbergen whose domain adjoined Graustark on the south. The Crown
                        Princess of Dawsbergen, then but fifteen, was the unanimous choice of the
                        amiable match-makers in secret conclave. This was when Robin was seventeen
                        and just over being fatuously in love with his middle-aged instructress in
                        French.
                    The Prince of Dawsbergen despatched an embassy of noblemen to assure his
                        neighbour that the match would be highly acceptable to him and that in
                        proper season the betrothal might be announced. But alack! both courts
                        overlooked the fact that there was independent American blood in the two
                        young people. Neither the Prince of Graustark nor the Crown Princess of
                        Dawsbergen, whose mother was a Miss Beverly Calhoun of Virginia, was
                        disposed to listen to the voice of expediency; in fact, at a safe distance
                        of three or four hundred miles, the youngsters figuratively turned up their
                        noses at each other and  frankly confessed that
                        they hated each other and wouldn't be bullied into getting married,
                        no matter what anybody said, or something of the sort.
                    "S'pose I'm going to say I'll marry a
                        girl I've never seen?" demanded seventeen-year-old Robin,
                        full of wrath. "Not I, my lords. I'm going to look about a
                        bit, if you don't mind. The world is full of girls. I'll
                        marry the one I happen to want or I'll not marry at all."
                    "But, highness," they protested, "you must listen
                        to reason. There must be a successor to the throne of Graustark. You would
                        not have the name die with you. The young Princess is "
                    "Is fifteen you say," he interrupted loftily.
                        "Come around in ten years and we'll talk it over again.
                        But I'm not going to pledge myself to marry a child in short
                        frocks, name or no name. Is she pretty?"
                    The lords did not know. They had not seen the young lady.
                    "If she is pretty you'd be sure to know it, my lords, so
                        we'll assume she isn't. I saw her when she was three years
                        old, and she certainly was a fright when she cried, and, my lords, she cried
                        all the time. No, I'll not marry her. Be good enough to say to the
                        Prince of Dawsbergen that I'm very much obliged to him, but
                        it's quite out of the question."
                    And the fifteen-year-old Crown Princess, four hundred miles away, coolly
                        informed her doting parents that she was tired of being a Princess anyway
                        and very much preferred marrying some one who lived in  a cottage. In fine, she stamped her little foot and said
                        she'd jump into the river before she'd marry the Prince of
                        Graustark.
                    "But he's a very handsome, adorable boy," began
                        her mother.
                    "And half-American just as you are, my child," put in her
                        father encouragingly. "Nothing could be more suitable than
                        "
                    "I don't intend to marry anybody until I'm thirty
                        at least, so that ends it, daddy, I mean, your poor old highness."
                    "Naturally we do not expect you to be married before you are out of
                        short frocks, my dear," said Prince Dantan stiffly. "But a
                        betrothal is quite another thing. It is customary to arrange these marriages
                        years before "
                    "Is Prince Robin in love with me?"
                    "I ahem! that's a very silly question. He hasn't
                        seen you since you were a baby. But he will be in love
                        with you, never fear."
                    "He may be in love with some one else, for all we know, so where do
                        I come in?"
                    "Come in?" gasped her father.
                    "She's part American, dear," explained the mother,
                        with her prettiest smile.
                    "Besides," said the Crown Princess, with finality,
                        "I'm not even going to be engaged to a man I've
                        never seen. And if you insist, I'll run away as sure as
                        anything."
                    And so the matter rested. Five years have passed  since the initial overtures were made by the two courts, and although
                        several sly attempts were made to bring the young people to a proper
                        understanding of their case, they aroused nothing more than scornful
                        laughter on the part of the belligerents, as the venerable Baron Dangloss
                        was wont to call them, not without pride in his sharp old voice.
                    "It all comes from mixing the blood," said the Prime
                        Minister gloomily.
                    "Or improving it," said the Baron, and was frowned upon.
                    And no one saw the portentous shadow cast by the slim daughter of William W.
                        Blithers, for the simple reason that neither Graustark nor Dawsbergen knew
                        that it existed. They lived in serene ignorance of the fact that God, while
                        he was about it, put Maud Applegate Blithers into the world on precisely the
                        same day that the Crown Princess of Dawsbergen first saw the light of day.
                    On the twenty-second anniversary of his birth, Prince Robin fared forth in
                        quest of love and romance, not without hope of adventure, for he was a
                        valorous chap with the heritage of warriors in his veins. Said he to himself
                        in dreamy contemplation of the long journey ahead of him: "I will
                        traverse the great highways that my mother trod and I will look for the
                        Golden Girl sitting by the wayside. She must be there, and though it is a
                        wide world, I am young and my eyes are sharp. I will find her sitting at the
                        roadside eager for me to come, not housed in a gloomy  castle surrounded by the spooks of a hundred ancestors. They
                        who live in castles wed to hate and they who wed at the roadside live to
                        love. Fortune attend me! If love lies at the roadside waiting, do not let me
                        pass it by. All the princesses are not inside the castles. Some sit outside
                        the gates and laugh with glee, for love is their companion. So away I go,
                        la, la! looking for the princess with the happy heart and the smiling lips!
                        It is a wide world but my eyes are sharp. I shall find my
                        princess."
                    But, alas, for his fine young dream, he found no Golden Girl at the roadside
                        nor anything that suggested romance. There were happy hearts and smiling
                        lips and all for him, it would appear but he passed them by, for his eyes
                        were sharp and his wits awake. And so, at last, he came to
                        Gotham, his heart as free as the air he breathed, confessing that his quest
                        had been in vain. History failed to repeat itself. His mother's
                        romance would stand alone and shine without a flicker to the end of time.
                        There could be no counterpart.
                    "Well, I had the fun of looking," he philosophised (to
                        himself, for no man knew of his secret project) and grinned with a sort of
                        amused tolerance for the sentimental side of his nature.
                        "I'm a silly ass to have even dreamed of finding her as I
                        passed along, and if I had found her what the deuce could I have done about
                        it anyway? This isn't the day for medival lady-snatching. I dare
                        say I'm just as well off for not having found her. I still have the
                        zest  for hunting farther, and there's
                        a lot in that." Then aloud: "Hobbs, are we on
                        time?"
                    "We are, sir," said Hobbs, without even glancing at his
                        watch. The train was passing 125th Street. "To the minute, sir. We
                        will be in in ten minutes, if nothing happens. Mr. King will be at the
                        station to meet you, sir. Any orders, sir?"
                    "Yes, pinch me, Hobbs."
                    "Pinch your Highness?" in amazement. "My word,
                        sir, wot "
                    "I just want to be sure that the dream is over, Hobbs. Never mind.
                        You needn't pinch me. I'm awake," and to prove it
                        he stretched his fine young body in the ecstasy of realisation.
                    That night he slept soundly in the Catskills.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    MR. BLITHERS GOES VISITING
                    I REPEAT: Prince Robin was as handsome a chap as
                        you'll see in a week's journey. He was just under six
                        feet, slender, erect and strong in the way that a fine blade is strong. His
                        hair was dark and straight, his eyes blue-black, his cheek brown and ruddy
                        with the health of a life well-ordered. Nose, mouth and chin were clean-cut
                        and indicative of power, while his brow was broad and smooth, with a surface
                        so serene that it might have belonged to a woman. At first glance you would
                        have taken him for a healthy, eager American athlete, just out of college,
                        but that aforementioned seriousness in his deep-set, thoughtful eyes would
                        have caused you to think twice before pronouncing him a fledgling. He had
                        enjoyed life, he had made the most of his play-days, but always there had
                        hung over his young head the shadow of the cross that would have to be
                        supported to the end of his reign, through thick and thin, through joy and
                        sorrow, through peace and strife.
                    He saw the shadow when he was little more than a baby; it was like a figure
                        striding beside him always; it never left him. He could not be like other
                        boys, for he was a prince, and it was a serious business being a prince! A
                        thousand times, as a lad, he had wished that he could have a few
                        "weeks off" from being what 
                        he was and be just a common, ordinary, harum scarum boy, like the
                        "kids" of Petrove, the head stableman. He would even have
                        put up with the thrashings they got from their father, just for the sake of
                        enjoying the mischief that purchased the punishment. But alas! no one would
                        ever dream of giving him the lovely "tannings" that other
                        boys got when they were naughty. Such joys were not for him; he was mildly
                        reproved and that was all. But his valiant spirit found release in many a
                        glorious though secret encounter with boys both large and small, and not
                        infrequently he sustained severe pummelings at the hands of plebeians who
                        never were quite sure that they wouldn't be beheaded for obliging
                        him in the matter of a "scrap," but who fought like little
                        wild-cats while they were about it. They were always fair fights, for he
                        fought as a boy and not as a prince. He took his lickings like a prince,
                        however, and his victories like a boy. The one thing he wanted to do above
                        all others was to play foot-ball. But they taught him fencing, riding,
                        shooting and tennis instead, for, said they, foot-ball is only to be
                        looked-at, not played, fine argument, said Robin!
                    Be that as it may, he was physically intact and bodily perfect. He had no
                        broken nose, smashed ribs, stiff shoulder joints or weak ankles, nor was he
                        toothless. In all his ambitious young life he had never achieved anything
                        more enduring than a bloody nose, a cracked lip or a purple eye, and he had
                        been compelled to struggle pretty hard for even those blessings.  And to him the pity of it all was that he was
                        as hard as nails and as strong as a bullock a sad waste, if one were to
                        believe him in his bitter lamentations.
                    Toward the end of his first week at Red Roof, the summer home of the Truxton
                        Kings, he might have been found on the broad lawn late one afternoon,
                        playing tennis with his hostess, the lovely and vivacious "Aunt
                        Loraine." To him, Mrs. King would always be "Aunt
                        Loraine," even as he would never be anything but Bobby to her.
                    She was several years under forty and as light and active as a young girl.
                        Her smooth cheek glowed with the happiness and thrill of the sport, and he
                        was hard put to hold his own against her, even though she insisted that he
                        play his level best.
                    Truxton King, stalwart and lazy, lounged on the turf, umpiring the game,
                        attended by two pretty young girls, a lieutenant in flannels and the
                        ceremonious Count Quinnox, iron grey and gaunt-faced battleman with the
                        sabre scars on his cheek and the bullet wound in his side.
                    "Good work, Rainie," shouted the umpire as his wife safely
                        placed the ball far out of her opponent's reach.
                    "Hi!" shouted Robin, turning on him with a scowl.
                        "You're not supposed to cheer anybody, d' you
                        understand? You're only an umpire."
                    "Outburst of excitement, Kid," apologised the umpire
                        complacently. "Couldn't help it. Forty thirty. Get
                        busy."
                    
                    "He called him 'kid,"' whispered one of
                        the young girls to the other.
                    "Well I heard the Prince call Mr. King 'Truck' a
                        little while ago," whispered the other.
                    "Isn't he good-looking?" sighed the first one.
                    They were sisters, very young, and lived in the cottage across the road with
                        their widowed mother. Their existence was quite unknown to Mr. and Mrs.
                        Blithers, although the amiable Maud was rather nice to them. She had once
                        picked them up in her automobile when she encountered them walking to the
                        station. After that she called them by their Christian names and generously
                        asked them to call her Maud. It might appear from this that Maud suffered
                        somewhat from loneliness in the great house on the hill. The Felton girls
                        had known Robin a scant three-quarters of an hour and were deeply in love
                        with him. Fannie was eighteen and Nellie but little more than sixteen. He
                        was their first Prince.
                    "Whee-ee!" shrilled Mrs. King, going madly after a return
                        that her opponent had lobbed over the net. She missed.
                    "Deuce," said her husband laconically. A servant was
                        crossing the lawn with a tray of iced drinks. As he neared the recumbent
                        group he paused irresolutely and allowed his gaze to shift toward the road
                        below. Then he came on and as he drew alongside the interested umpire he
                        leaned over and spoke in a low tone of voice.
                    "What?" demanded King, squinting.
                    
                    "Just coming in the gate, sir," said the footman. King shot
                        a glance over his shoulder and then sat up in astonishment.
                    "Good Lord! Blithers! What the deuce can he be doing here? I say,
                        Loraine! Hi!"
                    "Vantage in," cried his pretty wife, dashing a stray lock
                        from her eyes.
                    Mr. King's astonishment was genuine. It might better have been
                        pronounced bewilderment. Mr. Blithers was paying his first visit to Red
                        Roof. Up to this minute it is doubtful if he ever had accorded it so much as
                        a glance of interest in passing. He bowed to King occasionally at the
                        station, but that was all.
                    But now his manner was exceedingly friendly as he advanced upon the group.
                        One might have been pardoned for believing him to be a most intimate friend
                        of the family and given to constantly dropping in at any and all hours of
                        the day.
                    The game was promptly interrupted. It would not be far from wrong to say that
                        Mrs. King's pretty mouth was open not entirely as an aid to
                        breathing. She couldn't believe her eyes as she slowly abandoned
                        her court and came forward to meet their advancing visitor.
                    "Take my racket, dear," she said to one of the Feltons. It
                        happened to be Fannie and the poor child almost fainted with joy.
                    The Prince remained in the far court, idly twirling his racket.
                    
                    "Afternoon, King," said Mr. Blithers, doffing his panama to
                        fan a heated brow. "Been watching the game from the road for a
                        spell. Out for a stroll. Couldn't resist running in for a minute.
                        You play a beautiful game, Mrs. King. How do you do! Pretty hot work though,
                        isn't it?"
                    He was shaking hands with King and smiling genially upon the trim, panting
                        figure of the Prince's adversary.
                    "Good afternoon, Mr. Blithers," said King, still staring.
                        "You you know my wife?"
                    Mr. Blithers ignored what might have been regarded as an introduction, and
                        blandly announced that tennis wasn't a game for fat people, patting
                        his somewhat aggressive extension in mock dolefulness as he spoke.
                    "You should see my daughter play," he went on, scarcely
                        heeding Mrs. King's tactless remark that she affected the game
                        because she had a horror of geting fat. "Corking, she is, and as
                        quick as a cat. Got a medal at Lakewood last spring. I'll fix up a
                        match soon, Mrs. King, between you and Maud. Ought to be worth going miles
                        to see, eh, King?"
                    "Oh, I am afraid, Mr. Blithers, that I am not in your
                        daughter's class," said Loraine King, much too innocently.
                    "We've got a pretty fair tennis court up at
                        Blitherwood," said Mr. Blithers calmly. "I have a
                        professional instructor up every week to play with Maud. She can trim most
                        of the amateurs so "
                    
                    "May I offer you a drink of some kind, Mr. Blithers?" asked
                        King, recovering his poise to some extent. "We are having
                        lemonades, but perhaps you'd prefer something "
                    "Lemonade will do for me, thanks," said the visitor
                        affably. "We ought to run in on each other a little more often than
                        thanks! By jove, it looks refreshing. Your health, Mrs. King. Too bad to
                        drink a lady's health in lemonade but the sentiment's the
                        same."
                    He was looking over her shoulder at the bounding Prince in the far court as
                        he spoke, and it seemed that he held his glass a trifle too high in
                        proposing the toast.
                    "I beg your pardon, Mr. Blithers," mumbled King.
                        "Permit me to introduce Count Quinnox and Lieutenant
                        Dank." Both of the foreigners had arisen and were standing very
                        erect and soldierly a few yards away. "You know Miss Felton, of
                        course."
                    "Delighted to meet you, Count," said Mr. Blithers,
                        advancing with outstretched hand. He shook the hand of the lieutenant with a
                        shade less energy. "Enjoying the game?"
                    "Immensely," said the Count. "It is rarely played
                        so well."
                    Mr. Blithers affected a most dgag manner, squinting carelessly at the Prince.
                    "That young chap plays a nice game. Who is he?"
                    The two Graustarkians stiffened perceptibly, and  waited for King to make the revelation to his visitor.
                    "That's Prince Robin of " he began but Mr.
                        Blithers cut him short with a genial wave of the hand.
                    "Of course," he exclaimed, as if annoyed by his own
                        stupidity. "I did hear that you were entertaining a Prince. Slipped
                        my mind, however. Well, well, we're coming up in the world, eh?
                        having a real nabob among us." He hesitated for a moment.
                        "But don't let me interrupt the game," he went
                        on, as if expecting King to end the contest in order to present the Prince
                        to him.
                    "Won't you sit down, Mr. Blithers?" said Mrs.
                        King. "Or would you prefer a more comfortable chair on the porch?
                        We "
                    "No, thanks, I'll stay here if you don't
                        mind," said he hastily, and dragged up the camp chair that
                        Lieutenant Dank had been occupying.
                    "Fetch another chair, Lucas," said King to the servant.
                        "And another glass of lemonade for Miss Felton."
                    "Felton?" queried Mr. Blithers, sitting down very carefully
                        on the rather fragile chair, and hitching up his white flannel trousers at
                        the knees to reveal a pair of purple socks, somewhat elementary in tone.
                    "We know your daughter, Mr. Blithers," said little Miss
                        Nellie eagerly.
                    "I was just trying to remember "
                    "We live across the road over there in the little white house with
                        the ivy "
                    " where I'd heard the name," proceeded Mr.  Blithers, still looking at the Prince.
                        "By jove, I should think my daughter and the Prince would make a
                        rattling good match. I mean," he added, with a boisterous laugh,
                        "a good match at tennis. We'll have to get 'em
                        together some day, eh, up at Blitherwood. How long is the Prince to be with
                        you, Mrs. King?"
                    "It's rather uncertain, Mr. Blithers," said she,
                        and no more.
                    Mr. Blithers fanned himself in patience for a moment or two. Then he looked
                        at his watch.
                    "Getting along toward dinner-time up our way," he ventured.
                        Everybody seemed rather intent on the game, which was extremely one-sided.
                    "Good work!" shouted King as Fannie Felton managed to
                        return an easy service.
                    Lieutenant Dank applauded vigorously. "Splendid!" he cried
                        out. "Capitally placed!"
                    "They speak remarkably good English, don't they?"
                        said Mr. Blithers in an audible aside to Mrs. King. "Beats the
                        deuce how quickly they pick it up."
                    She smiled. "Officers in the Graustark army are required to speak
                        English, French and German, Mr. Blithers."
                    "It's a good idea," said he. "Maud speaks
                        French and Italian like a native. She was educated in Paris and Rome, you
                        know. Fact is, she's lived abroad a great deal."
                    "Is she at home now, Mr. Blithers?"
                    
                    "Depends on what you'd call home, Mrs. King. We've
                        got so many I don't know just which is the real one. If you mean
                        Blitherwood, yes, she's there. Course, there's our town
                        house in Madison Avenue, the place at Newport, one at Nice and one at
                        Pasadena California, you know and a little shack in London. By the way, my
                        wife says you live quite near our place in New York."
                    "We live in Madison Avenue, but it's a rather long street,
                        Mr. Blithers. Just where is your house?" she inquired, rather
                        spitefully.
                    He looked astonished. "You surely must know where the Blithers house
                        is at "
                    "Game!" shrieked Fannie Felton, tossing her racket in the
                        air, a victor.
                    "They're through," said Mr. Blithers in a tone of
                        relief. He shifted his legs and put his hands on his knees, suggesting a
                        readiness to arise on an instant's notice.
                    "Shall we try another set?" called out the Prince.
                    "Make it doubles," put in Lieutenant Dank, and turned to
                        Nellie. "Shall we take them on?"
                    And doubles it was, much to the disgust of Mr. Blithers. He sat through the
                        nine games, manifesting an interest he was far from feeling, and then as
                        dusk fell across the valley arose expectantly with the cry of "game
                        and set." He had discoursed freely on the relative merits of
                        various motor cars, stoutly maintaining that the one he drove was without
                        question the best in the market (in fact, there wasn't another  "make" that he would have as
                        a gift); the clubs he belonged to in New York were the only ones that were
                        worth belonging to (he wouldn't be caught dead in any of the
                        others); his tailor was the only tailor in the country who knew how to make
                        a decent looking suit of clothes (the rest of them were "the
                        limit"); the Pomeranian that he had given his daughter was the best
                        dog of its breed in the world (he was looking at Mrs. King's
                        Pomeranian as he made the remark); the tennis court at Blitherwood was
                        pronounced by experts to be the finest they'd ever seen and so on
                        and so on, until the long-drawn-out set was ended.
                    To his utter amazement, at the conclusion of the game, the four players made
                        a dash for the house without even so much as a glance in his direction. It
                        was the Prince who shouted something that sounded like "now for a
                        shower!" as he raced up the terrace, followed by the other
                        participants.
                    Mr. Blithers said something violent under his breath, but resolutely retained
                        his seat. It was King who glanced slyly at his watch this time, and
                        subsequently shot a questioning look at his wife. She was frowning in
                        considerable perplexity, and biting her firm red lips. Count Quinnox coolly
                        arose and excused himself with the remark that he was off to dress for
                        dinner. He also looked at his watch, which certainly was an act that one
                        would hardly have expected of a diplomat.
                    "Well, well," said Mr. Blithers profoundly. Then  he looked at his own watch and settled back in
                        his chair, a somewhat dogged compression about his jaws. He was not the man
                        to be thwarted. "You certainly have a cosy little place here,
                        King," he remarked after a moment or two.
                    "We like it," said King, twiddling his fingers behind his
                        back. "Humble but homelike."
                    "Mrs. Blithers has been planning to come over for some time, Mrs.
                        King. I told her she oughtn't to put it off be neighbourly,
                        don't you know. That's me. I'm for being
                        neighbourly with my neighbours. But women, they well, you know how it is,
                        Mrs. King. Always something turning up to keep 'em from doing the
                        things they want to do most. And Mrs. Blithers has so many sociable obli I
                        beg pardon?"
                    "I was just wondering if you would stay and have dinner with us, Mr.
                        Blithers," said she, utterly helpless. She couldn't look
                        her husband in the eye and it was quite fortunate that she was unable to do
                        so, for it would have resulted in a laughing duet that could never have been
                        explained.
                    "Why," said Mr. Blithers, arising and looking at his watch
                        again, "bless my soul, it is past dinner time,
                        isn't it? I had no idea it was so late. 'Pon my soul,
                        it's good of you, Mrs. King. You see, we have dinner at seven up at
                        Blitherwood and I declare it's half-past now. I don't see
                        where the time has gone. Thanks, I will stay if you really
                        mean to be kind to a poor old beggar. Don't do anything extra on my
                        account, though, just your regular dinner, you know.  No frills, if you please." He looked himself over in
                        some uncertainty. "Will this rag of mine do?"
                    "We shan't notice it, Mr. Blithers," said she, and
                        he turned the remark over in his mind several times as he walked beside her
                        toward the house. Somehow it didn't sound just right to him, but
                        for the life of him he couldn't tell why. "We are quite
                        simple folk, you see," she went on desperately, making note of the
                        fact that her husband lagged behind like the coward he was. "Red
                        Roof is as nothing compared to Blitherwood, with its army of servants and
                        "
                    Mr. Blithers magnanimously said "Pooh!" and, continuing,
                        remarked that he wouldn't say exactly how many they employed but he
                        was sure there were not more than forty, including the gardeners.
                        "Besides," he added gallantly, "what is an army
                        of servants compared to the army of Grasstock? You've got the real
                        article, Mrs. King, so don't you worry. But, I say, if necessary, I
                        can telephone up to the house and have a dress suit sent down. It
                        won't take fifteen minutes, Lou er Mrs. Blithers always has
                        'em laid out for me, in case of an emergency, and "
                    "Pray do not think of it," she cried. "The men
                        change, of course, after they've been playing tennis, but we we
                        well, you see, you haven't been playing," she concluded,
                        quite breathlessly.
                    At that instant the sprightly Feltons dashed pell mell down the steps and
                        across the lawn homeward, shrieking something unintelligible to Mrs. King as
                        they passed.
                    
                    "Rather skittish," observed Mr. Blithers, glaring after
                        them disapprovingly.
                    "They are dears," said Mrs. King.
                    "The er Prince attracted by either one of 'em?" he
                        queried.
                    "He barely knows them, Mr. Blithers."
                    "I see. Shouldn't think they'd appeal to him.
                        Rather light, I should say I mean up here," and he tapped his
                        forehead so that she wouldn't think that he referred to pounds and
                        ounces. "I don't believe Maud knows 'em, as the
                        little one said. Maud is rather "
                    "It is possible they have mistaken some one else for your
                        daughter," said she very gently.
                    "Impossible," said he with force.
                    "They are coming back here to dinner," she said, and her
                        eyes sparkled with mischief. "I shall put you between them, Mr.
                        Blithers. You will find that they are very bright, attractive
                        girls."
                    "We'll see," said he succinctly.
                    King caught them up at the top of the steps. He seemed to be slightly out of
                        breath.
                    "Make yourself at home, Mr. Blithers. I must get into something
                        besides these duds I'm wearing," he said. "Would
                        you like to er wash up while we're "
                    "No, thanks," interposed Mr. Blithers.
                        "I'm as clean as a whistle. Don't mind me,
                        please. Run along and dress, both of you. I'll sit out here and  count the minutes," the last with a
                        very elaborate bow to Mrs. King.
                    "Dinner's at half-past eight," said she, and
                        disappeared. Mr. Blithers recalled his last glance at his watch, and
                        calculated that he would have at least fifty minutes to count, provided
                        dinner was served promptly on the dot.
                    "You will excuse me if I leave you "
                    "Don't mention it, old man," said the new guest,
                        rather more curtly than he intended. "I'll take it
                        easy."
                    "Shall I have the butler telephone to Blitherwood to say that you
                        won't be home to dinner?"
                    "It would be better if he were to say that I wasn't home to dinner," said Mr. Blithers.
                        "It's over by this time."
                    "Something to drink while you're "
                    "No, thanks. I can wait," and he sat down.
                    "You don't mind my "
                    "Not at all."
                    Mr. Blithers settled himself in the big porch chair and glowered at the
                        shadowy hills on the opposite side of the valley. The little cottage of the
                        Feltons came directly in his line of vision. He scowled more deeply than
                        before. At the end of fifteen minutes he started up suddenly and, after a
                        quick uneasy glance about him, started off across the lawn, walking more
                        rapidly than was his wont.
                    He had remembered that his chauffeur was waiting  for him with the car just around a bend in the road and had been waiting
                        for two hours or more.
                    "Go home," he said to the man. "Come back at
                        twelve. And don't use the cut-out going up that hill,
                        either."
                    Later on, he met the Prince. Very warmly he shook the tall young
                        man's hand, he even gave it a prophetic second squeeze, and said:
                    "I am happy to welcome you to the Catskills, Prince."
                    "Thank you," said Prince Robin.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    PROTECTING THE BLOOD
                    "A MOST extraordinary person," said
                        Count Quinnox to King, after Mr. Blithers had taken his departure, close
                        upon the heels of the Feltons who were being escorted home by the Prince and
                        Dank. The venerable Graustarkian's heroic face was a study. He had
                        just concluded a confidential hour in a remote corner of the library with
                        the millionaire while the younger people were engaged in a noisy though
                        temperate encounter with the roulette wheel at the opposite end of the room.
                        "I've never met any one like him, Mr. King." He
                        mopped his brow, and still looked a trifle dazed.
                    King laughed. "There isn't any one like him, Count. He is
                        the one and only Blithers."
                    "He is very rich?"
                    "Millions and millions," said Mrs. King.
                        "Didn't he tell you how many?"
                    "I am not quite sure. This daughter of his is she
                        attractive?"
                    "Rather. Why?"
                    "He informed me that her dot would be twenty millions if she married
                        the right man. Moreover, she is his only heir. 'Pon my soul, Mrs.
                        King, he quite took my breath away when he announced that he knew all about
                        our predicament in relation to the  Russian
                        loan. It really sounded quite you might say significant. Does does he
                        imagine that good heaven, it's almost stupefying!"
                    King smoked in silence for many seconds. There was a pucker of annoyance on
                        his wife's fair brow as she stared reflectively through the window
                        at the distant lights of Blitherwood, far up the mountain side.
                    "Sounds ominous to me," said King drily. "Is Bobby
                        for sale?"
                    The Count favoured him with a look of horror. "My dear Mr.
                        King!" Then as comprehension came, he smiled. "I see. No,
                        he isn't for sale. He is a Prince, not a pawn. Mr. Blithers may be
                        willing to buy but " he proudly shook his head.
                    "He was feeling you out, however," said King, ruminating.
                        "Planting the seed, so to speak."
                    "There is a rumour that she is to marry Count Lannet," said
                        his wife. "A horrid creature. There was talk in the newspapers last
                        winter of an Italian duke. Poor girl! From what I hear of her, she is rather
                        a good sort, sensible and more genuinely American in her tastes than might
                        be expected after her bringing-up. And she is
                        pretty."
                    "How about this young Scoville, Rainie?"
                    "He's a nice boy but he'll never get her. She is
                        marked up too high for him. He doesn't possess so much as the title
                        to an acre of land."
                    "Extraordinary, the way you Americans go after our titles,"
                        said the Count good-naturedly.
                    
                    "No more extraordinary than the way you Europeans go after our
                        money," was her retort.
                    "I don't know which is the cheaper, titles or money in
                        these days," said King. "I understand one can get a most
                        acceptable duke for three or four millions, a nice marquis or count for half
                        as much, and a Sir on tick." He eyed the Count speculatively.
                        "Of course a prince of the royal blood comes pretty high."
                    "Pretty high," said the Count grimly. He seemed to be
                        turning something over in his mind. "Your amazing Mr. Blithers
                        further confided to me that he might be willing to take care of the Russian
                        obligation for us if no one else turns up in time. As a matter of fact,
                        without waiting for my reply, he said that he would have his lawyers look
                        into the matter of security at once. I was somewhat dazed, but I think he
                        said that it would be no trouble at all for him to provide the money himself
                        and he would be glad to accommodate us if we had no other plan in mind.
                        Amazing, amazing!"
                    "Of course, you told him it was not to be considered," said
                        King sharply.
                    "I endeavoured to do so, but I fear he did not grasp what I was
                        saying. Moreover, I tried to tell him that it was a matter I was not at
                        liberty to discuss. He didn't hear that, either."
                    "He is not in the habit of hearing any one but himself, I
                        fear," said King.
                    "I am afraid poor Robin is in jeopardy," said his wife,
                        ruefully. "The Bogieman is after him."
                    
                    "Does the incomprehensible creature imagine " began the
                        Count loudly, and then found it necessary to pull his collar away from his
                        throat as if to save himself from immediate strangulation.
                    "Mr. Blithers is not blessed with an imagination, Count,"
                        said she. "He doesn't imagine anything."
                    "If he should presume to insult our Prince by " grated the
                        old soldier, very red in the face and erect "if he should presume
                        to " Words failed him and an instant later he was laughing, but
                        somewhat uncertainly, with his amused host and hostess.
                    Mr. Blithers reached home in high spirits. His wife was asleep, but he awoke
                        her without ceremony.
                    "I say, Lou, wake up. Got some news for you. We'll have a
                        prince in the family before you can say Jack Robinson."
                    She sat up in bed, blinking with dismay. "In heaven's name,
                        Will, what have you been doing? What have you been
                        "
                    "Cutting bait," said he jovially. "In a day or two
                        I'll throw the hook in, and you'll see what I land.
                        He's as good as caught right now, but we'll let him nibble
                        a while before we jerk. And say, he's a corker, Lou. Finest young
                        fellow I've seen in many a day. He "
                    "You don't mean to say that you you actually said anything
                        to him about about Oh, my God, Will, don't tell me that you were
                        crazy enough to " cried the poor woman, almost in tears.
                    "Now cool down, cool down," he broke in soothingly.  "I'm no fool, Lou. Trust me
                        to do the fine work in a case like this. Sow the right kind of seeds and
                        you'll get results every time. I merely dropped a few hints,
                        that's all, and in the right direction, believe me. Count Equinox
                        will do the rest. I'll bet my head we'll have this prince
                        running after Maud so "
                    "What did you say?" she demanded. There
                        was a fine moisture on her upper lip. He sat down on the edge of the bed and
                        talked for half an hour without interruption. When he came to the end of his
                        oration, she turned over with her face to the wall and fairly sobbed:
                        "What will the Kings think of us? What will they think?"
                    "Who the dickens cares what the Kings think?" he roared,
                        perfectly aghast at the way she took it. "Who are the Kings? Tell
                        me that! who are they?"
                    "I I can't bear to talk about it. Go to bed."
                    He wiped his brow helplessly. "You beat anything I've ever
                        seen. What's the matter with you? Don't you want this
                        prince for Maud? Well, then, what the deuce are you crying about? You said
                        you wanted him, didn't you? Well, I'm going to get him. If
                        I say I'll do a thing, you can bet your last dollar I'll
                        do it. That's the kind of a man William W. Blithers is. You leave
                        it to me. There's only one way to land these foreign noblemen, and
                        I'm "
                    She faced him once more, and angrily. "Listen to me," she
                        said. "I've had a talk with Maud. She has gone to bed with
                        a splitting headache and I'm  not
                        surprised. Don't you suppose the poor child has a particle of
                        pride? She guessed at once just what you had gone over there for and she
                        cried her eyes out. Now she declares she will never be able to look the
                        Prince in the face, and as for the Kings Oh, it's sickening. Why
                        can't you leave these things to me? You go about like a bull in a
                        china shop. You might at least have waited until the poor child had an
                        opportunity to see the man before rushing in with your talk about money. She
                        "
                    "Confound it, Lou, don't blame me for everything. We all
                        three agreed at lunch that he was a better bargain than this measly count
                        we've been considering. Maud says she won't marry the
                        count, anyhow, and she did say that if this prince was all
                        that he's cracked up to be, she wouldn't mind being the
                        Princess of Groostock. You can't deny that, Lou. You heard her say
                        it. You "
                    "She didn't say Groostock," said his wife shortly.
                        "And you forget that she said she wouldn't promise
                        anything until she'd met him and decided whether she liked
                        him."
                    "She'll like him all right," said he confidently.
                    "She will refuse to even meet him, if she hears of your silly
                        blunder to-night."
                    "Refuse to meet him?" gasped Mr. Blithers.
                    "I may be able to reason with her, Will, but but she's
                        stubborn, as well you know. I'm afraid you've spoiled
                        everything."
                    His face brightened. Lowering his voice to a half-whisper,  he said: "We needn't tell
                        her what I said to that old chap, Lou. Just let her think I sat around like
                        a gump and never said a word to anybody. We can "
                    "But she'll pin you down, Will, and you know you
                        can't lie with a straight face."
                    "Maybe maybe I'd better run down to New York for a few
                        days," he muttered unhappily. "You can square it better
                        than I can."
                    "In other words, I can lie with a straight face, she said
                        ironically.
                    "I never thought she'd balk like this," said he
                        ignoring the remark.
                    "I fancy you'd better go to New York," she said
                        mercilessly.
                    "I've got business there anyhow," muttered he.
                        "I I think I'll go before she's up in the
                        morning."
                    "You can save yourself a bad hour or two if you leave before
                        breakfast," said she levelly.
                    "Get around her some way, Lou," he pleaded. "Tell
                        her I'm sorry I had to leave so early, and and that I love her
                        better than anything on earth, and that I'll be back the end of the
                        week. If if she wants anything in New York, just have her wire me. You say
                        she cried?"
                    "She did, and I don't blame her."
                    Mr. Blithers scowled. "Well well, you see if you can do any better
                        than I did. Arrange it somehow for them to meet. She'll
                        she'll like him and then by George, she'll thank us both
                        for the interest  we take in her future. It
                        wouldn't surprise me if she fell in love with him right off the
                        reel. And you may be sure he'll fall in love with her. He
                        can't help it. The knowledge that she'll have fifty
                        millions some day won't have anything to do with his feeling for
                        her, once he "
                    "Don't mention the word millions again, Will
                        Blithers."
                    "All right," said he, more humbly than he knew.
                        "But listen to this, old girl; I'm going to get this
                        prince for her if it's the last act of my life. I never failed in
                        anything and I won't fail in this."
                    "Well, go to bed, dear, and don't worry. I may be able to
                        undo the mischief. It it isn't hopeless, of course."
                    "I'll trust you, Lou, to do your part. Count on me to do
                        mine when the time comes. And I still insist that I have sowed the right
                        sort of seed to-night. You'll see. Just wait."
                    Sure enough, Mr. Blithers was off for New York soon after daybreak the next
                        morning, and with him went a mighty determination to justify himself before
                        the week was over. His wily brain was working as it had never worked before.
                    Two days later, Count Quinnox received a message from New York bearing the
                        distressing information that the two private banking institutions on which
                        he had been depending for aid in the hour of trouble had decided that it
                        would be impossible for them to make the loan under consideration. The
                        financial agents  who had been operating in
                        behalf of the Graustark government confessed that they were unable to
                        explain the sudden change of heart on the part of the bankers, inasmuch as
                        the negotiations practically had been closed with them. The decision of the
                        directors was utterly incomprehensible under the circumstances.
                    Vastly disturbed, Count Quinnox took the first train to New York, accompanied
                        by Truxton King, who was confident that outside influences had been brought
                        to bear upon the situation, influences inimical to Graustark. Both were of
                        the opinion that Russia had something to do with it, although the
                        negotiations had been conducted with all the secrecy permissible in such
                        cases.
                    "We may be able to get to the banks through Blithers," said
                        King.
                    "How could he possibly be of assistance to us?" the Count
                        inquired.
                    "He happens to be a director in both concerns, besides being such a
                        power in the financial world that his word is almost law when it comes to
                        the big deals."
                    All the way down to the city Count Quinnox was thoughtful, even pre-occupied.
                        They were nearing the Terminal when he leaned over and, laying his hand on
                        King's knee, said, after a long interval of silence between them:
                    "I suppose you know that Graustark has not given up hope that Prince
                        Robin may soon espouse the daughter of our neighbour, Dawsbergen."
                    King gave him a queer look. "By jove, that's  odd. I was thinking of that very thing when
                        you spoke."
                    "The union would be of no profit to us in a pecuniary way, my
                        friend," explained the Count. "Still it is most desirable
                        for other reasons. Dawsbergen is not a rich country, nor are its people
                        progressive. The reigning house, however, is an old one and rich in
                        traditions. Money, my dear King, is not everything in this world. There are
                        some things it cannot buy. It is singularly ineffective when opposed to an
                        honest sentiment. Even though the young Princess were to come to Graustark
                        without a farthing, she would still be hailed with the wildest acclaim. We
                        are a race of blood worshippers, if I may put it in that way. She represents
                        a force that has dominated our instincts for a great many centuries, and we
                        are bound hand and foot, heart and soul, by the so-called fetters of
                        imperialism. We are fierce men, but we bend the knee and we wear the yoke
                        because the sword of destiny is in the hand that drives us. To-day we are
                        ruled by a prince whose sire was not of the royal blood. I do not say that
                        we deplore this infusion, but it behooves us to protect the original strain.
                        We must conserve our royal blood. Our prince assumes an attitude of
                        independence that we find difficult to overcome. He is prepared to defy an
                        old precedent in support of a new one. In other words, he points out the
                        unmistakably happy union of his own mother, the late Princess Yetive, and
                        the American Lorry, and it is something we cannot go  behind. He declares that his mother set an example that he may
                        emulate without prejudice to his country if he is allowed a free hand in
                        choosing his mate.
                    "But we people of Graustark cannot look with complaisance on the
                        possible result of his search for a sharer of the throne. Traditions must be
                        upheld or we die. True, the Crown Princess of Dawsbergen has American blood
                        in her veins but her sire is a prince royal. Her mother, as you know, was an
                        American girl. She who sits on the throne with Robin must be a princess by
                        birth or the grip on the sword of destiny is weakened and the dynasty
                        falters. I know what is in your mind. You are wondering why our Prince
                        should not wed one of your fabulously rich American girls "
                    "My dear Count," said King warmly, "I am not
                        thinking anything of the sort. Naturally I am opposed to your pre-arranged
                        marriages and all that sort of thing, but still I appreciate what it means
                        as a safe-guard to the crown you support. I sincerely hope that Robin may
                        find his love-mate in the small circle you draw for him, but I fear it
                        isn't likely. He is young, romantic, impressionable, and he abhors
                        the thought of marriage without love. He refuses to even consider the
                        princess you have picked out for him. Time may prove to him that his ideals
                        are false and he may resign himself to the I was about to say the
                        inevitable."
                    "Inevitable is the word, Mr. King," said Count Quinnox
                        grimly. "'Pon my word, sir, I don't know  what our princes and princesses are coming to
                        in these days. There seems to be a perfect epidemic of independence among
                        them. They marry whom they please in spite of royal command, and the courts
                        of Europe are being shorn of half their glory. It wouldn't surprise
                        me to see an American woman on the throne of England one of these days.
                        'Gad, sir, you know what happened in Axphain two years ago. Her
                        crown prince renounced the throne and married a French singer."
                    "And they say he is a very happy young beggar," said King
                        drily.
                    "It is the prerogative of fools to be happy," said Count
                        Quinnox.
                    "Not so with princes, eh?"
                    "It is a duty with princes, Mr. King."
                    They had not been in New York City an hour before they discovered that
                        William W. Blithers was the man to whom they would have to appeal if they
                        expected to gain a fresh hearing with the banks. The agents were in a dismal
                        state of mind. The deal had been blocked no later than the afternoon of the
                        day before and at a time when everything appeared to be going along most
                        swimmingly. Blithers was the man to see; he and he alone could bring
                        pressure to bear on the directorates that might result in a reconsideration
                        of the surprising verdict. Something had happened during the day to alter
                        the friendly attitude of the banks; they were now politely reluctant, as one
                        of the agents expressed it, which really meant 
                        that opposition to the loan had appeared from some unexpected source, as a
                        sort of eleventh hour obstacle. The heads of the two banks had as much as
                        said that negotiations were at an end, that was the long and short of it; it
                        really didn't matter what was back of their sudden change of front,
                        the fact still remained that the transaction was as "dead as a door
                        nail" unless it could be revived by the magnetic touch of a man
                        like Blithers.
                    "What can have happened to cause them to change their minds so
                        abruptly?" cried the perplexed Count. "Surely our prime
                        minister and the cabinet have left nothing undone to convince them of
                        Graustark's integrity and "
                    "Pardon me, Count," interrupted one of the brokers,
                        "shall I try to make an appointment for you with Mr. Blithers? I
                        hear he is in town for a few days."
                    Count Quinnox looked to Truxton King for inspiration and that gentleman
                        favoured him with a singularly dis-spiriting nod of the head. The old
                        Graustarkian cleared his throat and rather stiffly announced that he would
                        receive Mr. Blithers if he would call on him at the Ritz that afternoon.
                    "What!" exclaimed both agents, half-starting from their
                        chairs in amazement.
                    The Count stared hard at them. "You may say to him that I will be in
                        at four."
                    "He'll tell you to go to ahem!" The speaker
                        coughed just in time. "Blithers isn't in the habit of  going out of his way to to oblige anybody. He
                        wouldn't do it for the Emperor of Germany."
                    "But," said the Count with a frosty smile, "I am
                        not the Emperor of Germany."
                    "Better let me make an appointment for you to see him at his office.
                        It's just around the corner." There was a pleading note in
                        the speaker's voice.
                    "You might save your face, Calvert, by saying that the Count will be
                        pleased to have him take tea with him at the Ritz," suggested King.
                    "Tea!" exclaimed Calvert scornfully. "Blithers
                        doesn't drink the stuff."
                    "It's a figure of speech," said King patiently.
                    "All right, I'll telephone," said the other
                        dubiously.
                    He came back a few minutes later with a triumphant look in his eye.
                    "Blithers says to tell Count Quinnox he'll see him
                        to-morrow morning at half-past eight at his office. Sorry he's
                        engaged this afternoon."
                    "But did you say I wanted him to have tea with us!"
                        demanded the Count, an angry flush leaping to his cheek.
                    "I did. I'm merely repeating what he said in reply.
                        Half-past eight, at his office, Count. Those were his words."
                    "It is the most brazen exhibition of insolence I've ever
                        " began the Count furiously, but checked himself with an effort.
                        "I I hope you did not say that I would come, sir!"
                    "Yes. It's the only way "
                    
                    "Well, be good enough to call him up again and say to him that
                        I'll I'll see him damned before I'll come to his
                        office to-morrow at eight-thirty or at any other hour." And with
                        that the Count got up and stalked out of the office, putting on his hat as
                        he did so.
                    "Count," said King, as they descended in the elevator,
                        "I've got an idea in my head that Blithers will be at the
                        Ritz at four."
                    "Do you imagine, sir, that I will receive him?"
                    "Certainly. Are you not a diplomat?"
                    "I am a Minister of War," said the Count, and his scowl was
                        an indication of absolute proficiency in the science.
                    "And what's more," went on King, reflectively,
                        "it wouldn't in the least surprise me if Blithers is the
                        man behind the directors in this sudden move of the banks."
                    "My dear King, he displayed the keenest interest and sympathy the
                        other night at your house. He "
                    "Of course I may be wrong," admitted King, but his brow was
                        clouded.
                    Shortly after luncheon that day, Mrs. Blithers received a telegram from her
                        husband. It merely stated that he was going up to have tea with the Count at
                        four o'clock, and not to worry as "things were shaping
                        themselves nicely."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    PRINCE ROBIN IS ASKED TO STAND UP
                    LATE the same evening, Prince Robin, at Red Roof, received
                        a long distance telephone communication from New York City. The Count was on
                        the wire. He imparted the rather startling news that William W. Blithers had
                        volunteered to take care of the loan out of his own private means! Quinnox
                        was cabling the Prime Minister for advice and would remain in New York for
                        further conference with the capitalist, who, it was to be assumed, would
                        want time to satisfy himself as to the stability of Graustark's
                        resources.
                    Robin was jubilant. The thought had not entered his mind that there could be
                        anything sinister in this amazing proposition of the great financier.
                    If Count Quinnox himself suspected Mr. Blithers of an ulterior motive, the
                        suspicion was rendered doubtful by the evidence of sincerity on the part of
                        the capitalist who professed no sentiment in the matter but insisted on the
                        most complete indemnification by the Graustark government. Even King was
                        impressed by the absolute fairness of the proposition. Mr. Blithers demanded
                        no more than the banks were asking for in the shape of indemnity; a first
                        lien mortgage for 12 years on all properties owned and controlled by the
                        government and the deposit of all bonds  held
                        by the people with the understanding that the interest would be paid to them
                        regularly, less a small per cent as commission. His protection would be
                        complete, for the people of Graustark owned fully four-fifths of the bonds
                        issued by the government for the construction of public service
                        institutions; these by consent of Mr. Blithers were to be limited to three
                        utilities: railroads, telegraph and canals. These properties, as Mr.
                        Blithers was by way of knowing, were absolutely sound and self-supporting.
                        According to his investigators in London and Berlin, they were as solid as
                        Gibraltar and not in need of one-tenth the protection required by the famous
                        rock.
                    Robin inquired whether he was to come to New York at once in relation to the
                        matter, and was informed that it would not be necessary at present. In fact,
                        Mr. Blithers preferred to let the situation remain in statu quo (as he
                        expressed it to the Count), until it was determined whether the people were
                        willing to deposit their bonds, a condition which was hardly worth while
                        worrying about in view of the fact that they had already signified their
                        readiness to present them for security in the original proposition to the
                        banks. Mr. Blithers, however, would give himself the pleasure of calling
                        upon the Prince at Red Roof later in the week, when the situation could be
                        discussed over a dish of tea or a cup of lemonade. That is precisely the way
                        Mr. Blithers put it.
                    The next afternoon Mrs. Blithers left cards at Red Roof or rather, the
                        foot-man left them and  on the day following
                        the Kings and their guests received invitations to a ball at Blitherwood on
                        the ensuing Friday, but four days off. While Mrs. King and the two young men
                        were discussing the invitation the former was called to the telephone. Mrs.
                        Blithers herself was speaking.
                    "I hope you will pardon me for calling you up, Mrs. King, but I
                        wanted to be sure that you can come on the seventeenth. We want so much to
                        have the Prince and his friends with us. Mr. Blithers has taken a great
                        fancy to Prince Robin and Count Quinnox, and he declares the whole affair
                        will be a fiasco if they are not to be here."
                    "It is good of you to ask us, Mrs. Blithers. The Prince is planning
                        to leave for Washington within the next few days and I fear "
                    "Oh, you must prevail upon him to remain over, my dear Mrs. King. We
                        are to have a lot of people up from Newport and Tuxedo you know the crowd
                        it's the real crowd and I'm sure he will
                        enjoy meeting them. Mr. Blithers has arranged for a special train to bring
                        them up a train de luxe, you may be sure, both as to equipment and occupant.
                        Zabo's orchestra, too. A notion seized us last night to give the
                        ball, which accounts for the short notice. It's the way we do
                        everything on a minute's notice. I think they're jollier
                        if one doesn't go through the agony of a month's
                        preparation, don't you? Nearly every one has wired acceptance, so
                        we're sure to have  a lot of nice
                        people. Loads of girls, you know the ones I mean, and Mr. Blithers is trying
                        to arrange a sparring match between those two great prize-fighters, you know
                        the ones, Mrs. King, just to give us poor women a chance to see what a real
                        man looks like in I mean to say, what marvellous specimens they are,
                        don't you know. Now please tell the Prince that he positively
                        cannot afford to miss a real sparring match. Every one is terribly excited
                        over it, and naturally we are keeping it very quiet. Won't it be a
                        lark? My daughter thinks it's terrible, but she is finicky. One of
                        them is a negro, isn't he?"
                    "I'm sure I don't know."
                    "You can imagine how splendid they must be when I tell you that Mr.
                        Blithers is afraid they won't come up for less than fifteen
                        thousand dollars. Isn't it ridiculous?"
                    "Perfectly," said Mrs. King.
                    "Of course, we shall insist on the Prince receiving with us. He is
                        our piece de resistance. You "
                    "I'm sure it will be awfully jolly, Mrs. Blithers. What did
                        you say?"
                    "I beg pardon?"
                    "I'm sorry. I was speaking to the Prince. He just called up
                        stairs to me."
                    "What does he say?"
                    "It was really nothing. He was asking about Hobbs."
                    
                    "Hobbs? Tell him, please, that if he has any friends he would like
                        to have invited we shall be only too proud to "
                    "Oh, thank you! I'll tell him."
                    "You must not let him go away before "
                    "I shall try my best, Mrs. Blithers. It is awfully kind of you to
                        ask us to "
                    "You must all come up to dinner either to-morrow night or the night
                        after. I shall be so glad if you will suggest anything that can help us to
                        make the ball a success. You see, I know how terribly clever you are, Mrs.
                        King."
                    "I am dreadfully stupid."
                    "Nonsense!"
                    "I'm sorry to say we're dinning out to-morrow
                        night and on Thursday we are having some people here for "
                    "Can't you bring them all up to Blitherwood?
                    We'd be delighted to have them, I'm sure."
                    "I'm afraid I couldn't manage it. They well, you
                        see, they are in mourning."
                    "Oh, I see. Well, perhaps Maud and I could run in and see you for a
                        few minutes to-morrow or next day, just to talk things over a little
                        what's that, Maud? I beg your pardon, Mrs. King. Ahem! Well,
                        I'll call you up to-morrow, if you don't mind being
                        bothered about a silly old ball. Good-bye. Thank you so much."
                    Mrs. King confronted Robin in the lower hall a few seconds later and roundly
                        berated him for shouting  up the steps that
                        Hobbs ought to be invited to the ball. Prince Robin rolled on a couch and
                        roared with delight. Lieutenant Dank, as became an officer of the Royal
                        Guard, stood at attention in the bow window with his back to the room, very
                        red about the ears and rigid to the bursting point.
                    "I suppose, however, we'll have to keep on the good side of
                        the Blithers syndicate," said Robin soberly, after his mirth and
                        subsided before her wrath. "Good Lord, Aunt Loraine, I simply
                        cannot go up there and stand in line like a freak in a side show for all the
                        ladies and girls to gape at. I'll get sick the day of the party,
                        that's what I'll do, and you can tell 'em how
                        desolated I am over my misfortune."
                    "They've got their eyes on you, Bobby," she said
                        flatly. "You can't escape so easily as all that. If
                        you're not very, very careful they'll have you married to
                        the charming Miss Maud before you can say Jack Rabbit."
                    "Think that's their idea?"
                    "Unquestionably."
                    He stretched himself lazily. "Well, it may be that she's
                        the very one I'm looking for, Auntie. Who knows?"
                    "You silly boy!"
                    "She may be the Golden Girl in every sense of the term,"
                        said he lightly, "You say she's pretty?"
                    "My notion of beauty and yours may not agree at all."
                    "That's not an answer."
                    
                    "Well, I consider her to be a very good-looking girl."
                    "Blonde?"
                    "Mixed. Light brown hair and very dark eyes and lashes. A little
                        taller than I, more graceful and a splendid horse-woman. I've seen
                        her riding."
                    "Astride?"
                    "No. I've seen her in a ball gown, too. Most men think
                        she's stunning."
                    "Well, let's have a game of billiards," said he,
                        dismissing Maud in a way that would have caused the proud Mr. Blithers to
                        reel with indignation.
                    A little later on, at the billiard table, Mrs. King remarked, apropos of
                        nothing and quite out of a clear sky, so to speak:
                    "And she'll do anything her parents command her to do,
                        that's the worst of it."
                    "What are you talking about? It's your shot."
                    "It they order her to marry a title, she'll do it.
                        That's the way she's been brought up, I'm
                        afraid."
                    "Meaning Maud?"
                    "Certainly. Who else? Poor thing, she hasn't a chance in
                        the world, with that mother of hers."
                    "Shoot, please. Mark up six for me, Dank."
                    "Wait till you see her, Bobby."
                    "All right. I'll wait," said he cheerfully.
                    The next day Count Quinnox and King returned from the city, coming up in a
                        private car with Mr. Blithers himself.
                    
                    "I'll have Maud drive me over this afternoon,"
                        said Mr. Blithers, as they parted at the station.
                    But Maud did not drive him over that afternoon. The pride, joy and hope of
                        the Blithers family flatly refused to be a party of any such arrangement,
                        and set out for a horse-back ride in a direction that took her as far away
                        from Red Roof as possible.
                    "What's come over the girl?" demanded Mr.
                        Blithers, completely non-plused. "She's never acted like
                        this before, Lou."
                    "Some silly notion about being made a laughing-stock, I
                        gather," said his wife. "Heaven knows I've talked
                        to her till I'm utterly worn out. She says she won't be
                        bullied into even meeting the Prince, much less marrying him. I've
                        never known her to be so pig-headed. Usually I can make her see things in a
                        sensible way. She would have married the duke, I'm sure, if if you
                        hadn't put a stop to it on account of his so-called habits. She
                        "
                    "Well, it's turned out for the best, hasn't it?
                        Isn't a prince better than a duke?"
                    "You've said all that before, Will. I wanted her to run
                        down with me this morning to talk the ball over with Mrs. King, and what do
                        you think happened?
                    "She wouldn't go?"
                    "Worse than that. She wouldn't let me go.
                        Now, things are coming to a pretty pass when "
                    "Never mind. I'll talk to her," said Mr. Blithers,
                             somewhat bleakly despite his confident
                        front. "She loves her old dad. I can do anything
                        with her."
                    "She's on a frightfully high horse lately," sighed
                        Mrs. Blithers fretfully. "It it can't be that young
                        Scoville, can it?"
                    "If I thought it was, I'd I'd " There is
                        no telling what Mr. Blithers would have done to young Scoville, at the
                        moment, for he couldn't think of anything dire enough to inflict
                        upon the suspected meddler.
                    "In any event, it's dreadfully upsetting to me, Will. She
                        she won't listen to anything. And here's something else:
                        She declares she won't stay here for the ball on Friday
                        night."
                    Mr. Blithers had her repeat it, and then almost missed the chair in sitting
                        down, he was so precipitous about it.
                    "Won't stay for her own ball?" he bellowed.
                    "She says it isn't her ball," lamented his wife.
                    "If it isn't hers, in the name of God whose is
                        it?"
                    "Ask her, not me," flared Mrs. Blithers. "And
                        don't glare at me like that. I've had nothing but glares
                        since you went away. I thought I was doing the very nicest thing in the
                        world when I suggested the ball. It would bring them together "
                    "The only two it will actually bring together, it seems, are those
                        damned prize-fighters. They'll get together all right, but what
                        good is it going to do us, if Maud's going to act like this? See
                        here, Lou, I've  got things fixed so
                        that the Prince of Groostuck can't very well do anything but ask
                        Maud to "
                    "That's just it!" she exclaimed. "Maud
                        sees through the whole arrangement, Will. She said last night that she
                        wouldn't be at all surprised if you offered to assume
                        Graustark's debt to Russia in order to "
                    "That's just what I've done, old girl,"
                        said he in triumph. "I'll have 'em sewed up so
                        tight by next week that they can't move without asking me to loosen
                        the strings. And you can tell Maud once more for me that I'll get
                        this Prince for her if "
                    "But she doesn't want him!"
                    "She doesn't know what she wants!" he roared.
                        "Where is she going?"
                    "You saw her start off on Katydid, so why "
                    "I mean on the day of the ball."
                    "To New York."
                    "By gad, I'll I'll see about that," he grated. "I'll see that she
                        doesn't leave the grounds if I have to put guards at every gate.
                        She's got to be reasonable. What does she think I'm
                        putting sixteen millions into the Grasstork treasury for? She's got
                        to stay here for the ball. Why, it would be a crime for her to but
                        what's the use talking about it? She'll be here and
                        she'll lead the grand march with the Prince. I've got it
                        all "
                    "Well, you'll have to talk to her. I've done all
                        that I can do. She swears she won't marry a man she's
                        never seen."
                    
                    "Ain't we trying to show him to her?" he snorted.
                        "She won't have to marry him till she's seen him,
                        and when she does see him she'll apologise to me for all the nasty
                        things she's been saying about me." For a moment it looked
                        as though Mr. Blithers would dissolve into tears, so suddenly was he
                        afflicted by self-pity. "By the way, didn't she like the
                        necklace I sent up to her from Tiffany's?"
                    "I suppose so. She said you were a dear old foozler."
                    "Foozler? What's that mean?" He wasn't
                        quite sure, but somehow it sounded like a term of opprobrium.
                    "I haven't the faintest idea," she said shortly.
                    "Well, why didn't you ask her? You've had charge
                        of her bringing up. If she uses a word that you don't know the
                        meaning of, you ought to "
                    "Are you actually going to lend all that money to
                        Graustark?" she cut in.
                    He glared at her uncertainly for a moment and then nodded his head. The words
                        wouldn't come.
                    "Are you not a trifle premature about it?" she demanded
                        with deep significance in her manner.
                    This time he did not nod his head, nor did he shake it. He simply got up and
                        walked out of the room. Half way across the terrace he stopped short and
                        said it with a great fervour and instantly felt very much relieved. In fact,
                        the sensation of relief was so pleasant that he repeated it two or three
                        times and then had to explain to a near by gardener that he  didn't mean him at all. Then he went
                        down to the stables. All the grooms and stableboys came tumbling into the
                        stable yard in response to his thunderous shout.
                    "Saddle Red Rover, and be quick about it," he commanded.
                    "Going out, sir?" asked the head groom, touching his
                        fore-lock.
                    "I am," said Mr. Blithers succinctly and with a withering
                        glare. Red Rover must have been surprised by the unusual celerity with which
                        he was saddled and bridled. If there could be such a thing as a horse
                        looking shocked, that beast certainly betrayed himself as he was yanked away
                        from his full manger and hustled out to the mounting block.
                    "Which way did Miss Blithers go?" demanded Mr. Blithers, in
                        the saddle. Two grooms were clumsily trying to insert his toes into the
                        stirrups, at the same time pulling down his trousers legs, which had a
                        tendency to hitch up in what seemed to them a most exasperating disregard
                        for form. To their certain knowledge, Mr. Blithers had never started out
                        before without boot and spur; therefore, the suddenness of his present
                        sortie sank into their intellects with over-whelming impressiveness.
                    "Down the Cutler road, sir, three quarters of an hour ago. She
                        refused to have a groom go along, sir."
                    "Get ap!" said Mr. Blithers, and almost ran down a groom in
                        his rush for the gate. For the information of the curious, it may be added
                        that he did not  overtake his daughter until
                        she had been at home for half an hour, but he was gracious enough to admit
                        to himself that he had been a fool to pursue a stern chase rather than to
                        intercept her on the back road home, which any fool might
                        have known she would take.
                    His wife came upon him a few minutes later while he was feverishly engaged in
                        getting into his white flannels.
                    "Tell Maud I'm going over to have tea with the
                        Prince," he grunted, without looking up from the shoe lace he was
                        tying in a hard knot. "I want her to go with me in fifteen minutes.
                        Told 'em I would bring her over to play tennis. Tell her to put on
                        tennis clothes. Hurry up, Lou. Where's my watch? What time is it?
                        For God's sake, look at the watch, not at me! I'm not a
                        clock! What?"
                    "Mrs. King called up half an hour ago to say that they were all
                        motoring over to the Grandby Tavern for tea and wouldn't be back
                        till half-past seven "
                    He managed to look up at that. For a moment he was speechless. No one had
                        ever treated him like this before.
                    "Well, I'll be hanged! Positive engagement. But's
                        it's all right," he concluded resolutely. "I can
                        motor to Grandby Tavern, too, can't I? Tell Maud not to mind tennis
                        clothes, but to hurry. Want to go along?"
                    "No, I don't," she said emphatically.
                        "And Maud isn't going, either."
                    "She isn't, eh?"
                    
                    "No, she isn't. Can't you leave this affair to
                        me?"
                    "I'm pretty hot under the collar," he warned her,
                        and it was easy to believe that he was.
                    "Don't rush in where angels fear to tread, Will
                        dear," she pleaded. It was so unusual for her to adopt a pleading
                        tone that he overlooked the implication. Besides he had just got through
                        calling himself a fool, so perhaps she was more or less justified. Moreover,
                        at that particular moment she undertook to assist him with his necktie. Her
                        soft, cool fingers touched his double chin and seemed to caress it lovingly.
                        He lifted his head very much as a dog does when he is being tickled on that
                        velvety spot under the lower jaw.
                    "Stuff and nonsense," he murmured throatily.
                    "I thought you would see it that way," she said so calmly
                        that he blinked a couple of times in sheer perplexity and then diminished
                        his double chin perceptibly by a very helpful screwing up of his lower lip.
                        He said nothing, preferring to let her think that the most important thing
                        in the world just then was the proper adjustment of the wings of his
                        necktie. "There!" she said, and patted him on the cheek,
                        to show that the task had been successfully accomplished.
                    "Better come along for a little spin," he said, readjusting
                        the tie with man-like ingenuousness. "Do you good, Lou."
                    "Very well," she said. "Can you wait a few
                        minutes?"
                    
                    "Long as you like," said he graciously. "Ask Maud
                        if she wants to come, too."
                    "I am sure she will enjoy it," said his wife, and then Mr.
                        Blithers descended to the verandah to think. Somehow he felt if he did a
                        little more thinking perhaps matters wouldn't be so bad. Among
                        other things, he thought it would be a good idea not to motor in the
                        direction of Grandby Tavern. And he also thought it was not worth while
                        resenting the fact that his wife and daughter took something over an hour to
                        prepare for the little spin.
                    In the meantime, Prince Robin was racing over the mountain roads in a
                        high-power car, attended by a merry company of conspirators whose sole
                        object was to keep him out of the clutches of that far-reaching octopus,
                        William W. Blithers.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    THE PRINCE AND MR. BLITHERS
                    IN order to get on with the narrative, I shall be as brief
                        as possible in the matter of the Blitherwood ball. In the first place, mere
                        words would prove to be not only feeble but actually out of place. Any
                        attempt to define the sensation of awe by recourse to a dictionary would put
                        one in the ridiculous position of seeking the unattainable. The word has its
                        meaning, of course, but the sensation itself is quite another thing. As
                        every one who attended the ball was filled with awe, which he tried to put
                        forward as admiration, the attitude of the guest was no more limp than that
                        of the chronicler. In the second place, I am not qualified by experience or
                        imagination to describe a ball that stood its promoter not a penny short of
                        one hundred thousand dollars. I believe I could go as high as a fifteen or
                        even twenty thousand dollar affair with some sort of intelligence, but
                        anything beyond those figures renders me void and useless.
                    Mr. Blithers not only ran a special train de luxe from New York City, but
                        another from Washington and still another from Newport, for it appears that
                        the Newporters at the last minute couldn't bear the idea of going
                        to the Metropolis out of season. He actually had to take them around the
                        city in such a  way that they were not even
                        obliged to submit to a glimpse of the remotest outskirts of the Bronx.
                    From Washington came an amazing company of foreign ladies and gentlemen,
                        ranging from the most exalted Europeans to the lowliest of the yellow races.
                        They came with gold all over them; they tinkled with the clash of a million
                        cymbals. The President of the United States almost came. Having no spangles
                        of his own, he delegated a Major-General and a Rear-Admiral to represent Old
                        Glory, and no doubt sulked in the White House because a parsimonious nation
                        refuses to buy braid and buttons for its chief executive.
                    Any one who has seen a gentleman in braid, buttons and spangles will
                        understand how impossible it is to describe him. One might enumerate the
                        buttons and the spangles and even locate them precisely upon his person, but
                        no mortal intellect can expand sufficiently to cope with an undertaking that
                        would try even the powers of Him who created the contents of those
                        well-stuffed uniforms.
                    A car load of orchids and gardenias came up, fairly depleting the
                        florists' shops on Manhattan Island, and with them came a small
                        army of skilled decorators. In order to deliver his guests at the doors of
                        Blitherwood, so to speak, the incomprehensible Mr. Blithers had a temporary
                        spur of track laid from the station two miles away, employing no fewer than
                        a thousand men to do the work in forty-eight hours. (Work on a terminal
                        extension in New York was delayed for a  week
                        or more in order that he might borrow the rails, ties and worktrains!)
                    Two hundred and fifty precious and skillfully selected guests ate two hundred
                        and fifty gargantuan dinners and twice as many suppers; drank barrels of the
                        rarest of wines; smoked countless two dollar Perfectos and stuffed their
                        pockets with enough to last them for days to come; burnt up five thousand
                        cigarettes and ate at least two dozen eggs for breakfast, and then flitted
                        away with a thousand complaints in two hundred and fifty Pullman
                        drawing-rooms. Nothing could have been more accurately pulled-off than the
                        wonderful Blitherwood ball. (The sparring match on the lawn, under the glare
                        of a stupendous cluster of lights, resulted in favour of Mr. Bullhead Brown,
                        who successfully if accidentally landed with considerably energy on the left
                        lower corner of Mr. Sledge-hammer Smith's diaphragm, completely
                        dividing the purse with him in four scientifically satisfactory rounds,
                        although they came to blows over it afterwards when Mr. Smith told Mr. Brown
                        what he thought of him for hitting with such fervour just after they had
                        eaten a hearty meal.)
                    A great many mothers inspected Prince Robin with interest and confessed to a
                        really genuine enthusiasm: something they had not experienced since one of
                        the German princes got close enough to Newport to see it quite clearly
                        through his marine glasses from the bridge of a battleship. The ruler of
                        Graustark (four-fifths of the guests asked where in the world it  was!) was the lion of the day. Mr. Blithers
                        was annoyed because he did not wear his crown, but was somewhat mollified by
                        the information that he had neglected to bring it along with him in his
                        travels. He was also considerably put out by the discovery that the Prince
                        had left his white and gold uniform at home and had to appear in an ordinary
                        dress-suit, which, to be sure, fitted him perfectly but did not achieve
                        distinction. He did wear a black and silver ribbon across his shirt front,
                        however, and a tiny gold button in the lapel of his coat; otherwise he might
                        have been mistaken for a "regular guest," to borrow an
                        expression from Mr. Blithers. The Prince's host manoeuvred until
                        nearly one o'clock in the morning before he succeeded in getting a
                        close look at the little gold button, and then found that the inscription
                        thereon was in some sort of hieroglyphics that afforded no enlightenment
                        whatsoever.
                    Exercising a potentate's prerogative, Prince Robin left the scene of
                        festivity somewhat earlier than was expected. As a matter of fact, he
                        departed shortly after one. Moreover, being a prince, it did not occur to
                        him to offer any excuse for leaving so early, but gracefully thanked his
                        host and hostess and took himself off without the customary assertion that
                        he had had a splendid time. Strange to say, he did not offer a single
                        comment on the sumptuousness of the affair that had been given in his honor.
                        Mr. Blithers couldn't get over that. He couldn't help
                        thinking that the fellow had not been properly brought-up,  or was it possible that he was not in the
                        habit of going out in good society?
                    Except for one heart-rending incident, the Blitherwood ball was the most
                        satisfying event in the lives of Mr. and Mrs. William W. Blithers. That
                        incident, however, happened to be the hasty and well-managed flight of Maud
                        Applegate Blithers at an hour indefinitely placed somewhere between four and
                        seven o'clock on the morning of the great day.
                    Miss Blithers was not at the ball. She was in New York City serenely enjoying
                        one of the big summer shows, accompanied by young Scoville and her onetime
                        governess, a middle-aged gentlewoman who had seen even better days than
                        those spent in the employ of William W. Blithers. The resolute young lady
                        had done precisely what she said she would do, and for the first time in his
                        life Mr. Blithers realised that his daughter was a creation and not a mere
                        condition. He wilted like a famished water-lily and went about the place in
                        a state of bewilderment so bleak that even his wife felt sorry for him and
                        refrained from the "I told you so" that might have been
                        expected under the circumstances.
                    Maud's telegram, which came at three o'clock in the
                        afternoon, was meant to be reassuring but it failed of its purpose. It said:
                        "Have a good time and don't lose any sleep over me. I
                        shall sleep very soundly myself at the Ritz to-night and hope you will be
                        doing the same when I return home to-morrow afternoon, for I know you will
                        be dreadfully tired after all the  excitement.
                        Convey my congratulations to the guest of honor and believe me to be your
                        devoted and obedient daughter."
                    The co-incidental absence of young Mr. Scoville from the ball was a cause of
                        considerable uneasiness on the part of the agitated Mr. Blithers, who
                        commented upon it quite expansively in the seclusion of his own bed-chamber
                        after the last guest had sought repose. Some of the things that Mr. Blithers
                        said about Mr. Scoville will never be forgotten by the four walls of that
                        room, if, as commonly reported, they possess auricular attachments.
                    Any one who imagines that Mr. Blithers accepted Maud's defection as
                        a final disposition of the cause he had set his heart upon is very much
                        mistaken in his man. Far from receding so much as an inch from his position,
                        he at once set about to strengthen it in such a way that Maud would have to
                        come to the conclusion that it was useless to combat the inevitable, and
                        ultimately would heap praises upon his devoted head for the great blessing
                        he was determined to bestow upon her in spite of herself.
                    The last of the special coaches was barely moving on its jiggly way to the
                        main line, carrying the tag end of the revellers, when he set forth in his
                        car for a mid-day visit to Red Roof. Already the huge camp of Slavs and
                        Italians was beginning to jerk up the borrowed rails and ties; the work
                        trains were rumbling and snorting in the meadows above Blitherwood,
                        tottering about on the uncertain road-bed. He gave a  few concise and imperative orders to obsequious superintendents
                        and foremen, who subsequently repeated them with even greater freedom to the
                        perspiring foreigners, and left the scene of confusion without so much as a
                        glance behind. Wagons, carts, motor-trucks and all manner of wheeled things
                        were scuttling about Blitherwood as he shot down the long, winding avenue
                        toward the lodge gates, but he paid no attention to them. They were removing
                        the remnants of a glory that had passed at five in the morning. He was not
                        interested in the well-plucked skeleton. It was a nuisance getting rid of
                        it, that was all, and he wanted it to be completely out of sight when he
                        returned from Red Roof. If a vestige of the ruins remained, some one would
                        hear from him! That was understood. And when Maud came home on the
                        five-fourteen she would not find him asleep not by a long shot!
                    Half-way to Red Roof, he espied a man walking briskly along the road ahead of
                        him. To be perfectly accurate, he was walking in the middle of the road and
                        his back was toward the swift-moving, almost noiseless Packard.
                    "Blow the horn for the dam' fool," said Mr.
                        Blithers to the chauffeur. A moment later the pedestrian leaped nimbly aside
                        and the car shot past, the dying wail of the siren dwindling away in the
                        whirr of the wheels. "Look where you're going!"
                        shouted Mr. Blithers from the tonneau, as if the walker had come near to
                        running him down instead of the other way 
                        around. "Whoa! Stop 'er, Jackson!" he called to
                        the driver. He had recognised the pedestrian.
                    The car came to a stop with grinding brakes, and at the same time the
                        pedestrian halted a hundred yards away.
                    "Back up," commanded Mr. Blithers in some haste, for the
                        Prince seemed to be on the point of deserting the highway for the wood that
                        lined it. "Morning, Prince!" he shouted, waving his hat
                        vigorously. "Want a lift?"
                    The car shot backward with almost the same speed that it had gone forward,
                        and the Prince exercised prudence when he stepped quickly up the sloping
                        bank at the roadside.
                    "Were you addressing me," he demanded curtly, as the car
                        came to a stop.
                    "Yes, your highness. Get in. I'm going your way,"
                        said Mr. Blithers beamingly.
                    "I mean a moment ago, when you shouted 'Look where you are
                        going,'" said Robin, an angry gleam in his eye.
                    Mr. Blithers looked positively dumbfounded. "Good Heavens,
                        no!" he cried. "I was speaking to the chauffeur."
                        (Jackson's back seemed to stiffen a little.)
                        "I've told him a thousand times to be careful about
                        running up on people like that. Now this is the last time I'll warn
                        you, Jackson. The next time you go. Understand? Just because you happen to
                        be driving for me doesn't signify that you can run over people who
                        "
                    
                    "It's all right, Mr. Blithers," interrupted Robin,
                        with his fine smile. "No harm done. I'll walk if you
                        don't mind. Out for a bit of exercise, you know. Thank you just the
                        same."
                    "Where are you bound for?" asked Mr. Blithers.
                    "I don't know. I ramble where my fancy leads me."
                    "I guess I'll get out and stroll along with you. God knows
                        I need more exercise than I get. Is it agreeable?" He was on the
                        ground by this time. Without waiting for an answer, he directed Jackson to
                        run on to Red Roof and wait for him.
                    "I shall be charmed," said Robin, a twinkle in the tail of
                        his eye. "An eight or ten mile jaunt will do you a world of good,
                        I'm sure. Shall we explore this little road up the mountain and
                        then drop down to Red Roof? I don't believe it can be more than
                        five or six miles."
                    "Capital," said Mr. Blithers with enthusiasm. He happened
                        to know that it was a "short cut" to Red Roof and less
                        than a mile as the crow flies. True, there was something of an ascent ahead
                        of them, but there was also a corresponding descent at the other end.
                        Besides, he was confident he could keep up with the long-legged youngster by
                        the paradoxical process of holding back. The Prince, having suggested the
                        route, couldn't very well be arbitrary in traversing it. Mr.
                        Blithers regarded the suggestion as an invitation.
                    They struck off into the narrow woodland road, not precisely side by side,
                        but somewhat after the fashion  of a horseback
                        rider and his groom, or, more strictly speaking, as a Knight and his vassal.
                        Robin started off so briskly that Mr. Blithers fell behind a few paces and
                        had to exert himself considerably to keep from losing more ground as they
                        took the first steep rise. The road was full of ruts and cross ruts and
                        littered with boulders that had ambled down the mountain-side in the spring
                        moving. To save his life, Mr. Blithers couldn't keep to a straight
                        course. He went from rut to rut and from rock to rock with the fidelity of a
                        magnetised atom, seldom putting his foot where he meant to put it, and never
                        by any chance achieving a steady stride. He would take one long, purposeful
                        step and then a couple of short "feelers," progressing
                        very much as a man tramps over a newly ploughed field.
                    At the top of the rise, Robin considerately slackened his pace and the chubby
                        gentleman drew alongside, somewhat out of breath but as cheerful as a
                        cricket.
                    "Going too fast for you, Mr. Blithers?" inquired Robin.
                    "Not at all," said Mr. Blithers. "By the way,
                        Prince," he went on, cunningly seizing the young man's arm
                        and thereby putting a check on his speed for the time being at least,
                        "I want to explain my daughter's unfortunate absence last
                        night. You must have thought it very strange. Naturally it was unavoidable.
                        The poor girl is really quite heart-broken. I beg pardon!" He
                        stepped into a rut and came  perilously near to
                        going over on his nose. "Beastly road! Thanks. Good thing I took
                        hold of you. Yes, as I was saying, it was really a most unfortunate thing;
                        missed the train, don't you see. Went down for the day just like a
                        girl, you know and missed the train."
                    "Ah, I see. She missed it twice."
                    "Eh? Oh! Ha ha! Very good! She might just as well have missed it a
                        dozen times as once, eh? Well, she could have arranged for a special to
                        bring her up, but she's got a confounded streak of thriftiness in
                        her. Couldn't think of spending the money. Silly idea of I beg your
                        pardon, did I hurt you? I'm pretty heavy, you know, no light weight
                        when I come down on a fellow's toe like that. What say to sitting
                        down on this log for a while? Give your foot a chance to rest a bit.
                        Deucedly awkward of me. Ought to look out where I'm stepping,
                        eh?"
                    "It really doesn't matter, Mr. Blithers," said
                        Robin hastily. "We'll keep right on if it's all
                        the same to you. I'm due at home in in half an hour. We lunch very
                        punctually."
                    "I was particularly anxious for you and Maud to meet under the
                        conditions that obtained last night," went on Mr. Blithers, with a
                        regretful look at the log they were passing. "Nothing could have
                        been more er ripping."
                    "I hear from every one that your daughter is most
                        attractive," said Robin. "Sorry not to have met her, Mr.
                        Blithers."
                    
                    "Oh, you'll meet her all right, Prince. She's
                        coming home to-day. I believe Mrs. Blithers is expecting you to dinner
                        to-night. She "
                    "I'm sure there must be some mistake," began
                        Robin, but was cut short.
                    "I was on my way to Red Roof to ask you and Count Quiddux to give us
                        this evening in connection with that little affair we are arranging. It is
                        most imperative that it should be to-night, as my attorney is coming up for
                        the conference."
                    "I fear that Mrs. King has planned something "
                    Mr. Blithers waved his hand deprecatingly. "I am sure Mrs. King will
                        let you off when she knows how important it is. As a matter of fact, it has
                        to be to-night or not at all."
                    There was a note in his voice that Robin did not like. It savoured of
                        arrogance.
                    "I daresay Count Quinnox can attend to all the details, Mr.
                        Blithers. I have the power of veto, of course, but I shall be guided by the
                        counsel of my ministers. You need have no hesitancy in dealing with
                        "
                    "That's not the point, Prince. I am a business man, as
                        perhaps you know. I make it a point never to deal with any one except the
                        head of a concern, if you'll pardon my way of putting it. It
                        isn't right to speak of Growstock as a concern, but you'll
                        understand, of course. Figure of speech."
                    "I can only assure you, sir, that Graustark is in a position to
                        indemnify you against any possible chance  of
                        loss. You will be amply secured. I take it that you are not coming to our
                        assistance through any desire to be philanthropic, but as a business
                        proposition, pure and simple. At least, that is how we regard the matter. Am
                        I not right?"
                    "Perfectly," said Mr. Blithers. "I
                        haven't got sixteen millions to throw away. Still I don't
                        see that that has anything to do with my request that you be present at the
                        conference to-night. To be perfectly frank with you, I don't like
                        working in the dark. You have the power of veto, as you say. Well, if I am
                        to lend Groostork a good many millions of hard-earned dollars, I certainly
                        don't relish the idea that you may take it into your head to upset
                        the whole transaction merely because you have not had the matter presented
                        to you by me instead of by your cabinet, competent as its members may be.
                        First hand information on any subject is my notion of simplicity."
                    "The integrity of the cabinet is not to be questioned, Mr. Blithers.
                        Its members have never failed Graustark in any "
                    "I beg your pardon, Prince," said Mr. Blithers firmly,
                        "but I certainly suspect that they failed her when they contracted
                        this debt to Russia. You will forgive me for saying it, but it was the most
                        asinine bit of short-sightedness I've ever heard of. My office boys
                        could have seen farther than your honourable ministers."
                    To his utter amazement, Robin turned a pair of beaming, excited eyes upon
                        him.
                    
                    "Do you really mean that, Mr. Blithers-"
                        he cried eagerly.
                    "I certainly do!"
                    "By jove, I I can't tell you how happy I am to hear you say
                        it. You see it is exactly what John Tullis said from the first. He was
                        bitterly opposed to the loan. He tried his best to convince the prime
                        minister that it was inadvisable. I granted him the special privilege of
                        addressing the full House of Nobles on the question, an honour that no alien
                        had known up to that time. Of course I was a boy when all this happened, Mr.
                        Blithers, or I might have put a stop to the but I'll not go into
                        that. The House of Nobles went against his judgment and voted in favour of
                        accepting Russia's loan. Now they realise that dear old John Tullis
                        was right. Somehow it gratifies me to hear you say that they were ahem!
                        short-sighted."
                    "What you need in Groostock is a little more good American
                        blood," announced Mr. Blithers, pointedly. "If you are
                        going to cope with the world, you've got to tackle the job with
                        brains and not with that idiotic thing called faith. There's no
                        such thing in these days as charity among men, good will, and all that
                        nonsense. Now, you've got a splendid start in the right direction,
                        Prince. You've got American blood in your veins and that means a
                        good deal. Take my advice and increase the proportion. In a couple of
                        generations you'll have something to brag about. Take Tullis as
                        your example. Beget sons that will  think and
                        act as he is capable of doing. Weed out the thin blood and give the crown of
                        Grasstick something that is thick and red. It will be the making of your
                        "
                    "I suppose you are advising me to marry an American woman, Mr.
                        Blithers," said Robin drily.
                    Mr. Blithers directed a calculating squint into the tree-tops. "I am
                        simply looking ahead for my own protection, Prince," said he.
                    "In what respect?"
                    "Well I am putting a lot of money into the hands of your people.
                        Isn't it natural that I should look ahead to some extent?"
                    "But my people are honest. They will pay."
                    "I understand all that, but at the same time I do not relish the
                        idea of some day being obliged to squeeze blood from a turnip. Now is the
                        time for you to think for the future. Your people are honest, I'll
                        grant. But they also are poor. And why? Because no one has been able to act
                        for them as your friend Tullis is capable of acting. The day will come when
                        they will have to settle with me, and will it be any easier to pay William
                        W. Blithers than it is to pay Russia? Not a bit of it. As you have said, I
                        am not a philanthropist. I shall exact full and prompt payment. I prefer to
                        collect from the prosperous, however, and not from the poor. It goes against
                        the grain. That's why I want to see you rich and powerful as well
                        as honest."
                    "I grant you it is splendid philosophy," said Robin,  "But are you not forgetting that even
                        the best of Americans are sometimes failures when it comes to laying up
                        treasure?"
                    "As individuals, yes; but not as a class. You will not deny that we
                        are the richest people in the world. On the other hand I do not pretend to
                        say that we are a people of one strain of blood. We represent a mixture of
                        many strains, but underneath them all runs the full stream that makes us
                        what we are: Americans. You can't get away from that. Yes, I do advise you to marry an American girl."
                    "In other words, I am to make a business of it," said
                        Robin, tolerantly.
                    "It isn't beyond the range of possibility that you should
                        fall in love with an American girl, is it? You wouldn't call that
                        making a business of it, would you?"
                    "You may rest assured, Mr. Blithers, that I shall marry to please
                        myself and no one else," said Robin, regarding him with a coldness
                        that for an instant affected the millionaire uncomfortably.
                    "Well," said Mr. Blithers, after a moment of hard thinking,
                        "it may interest you to know that I married for love."
                    "It does interest me," said Robin.
                        "I am glad that you did."
                    "I was a comparatively poor man when I married. The girl I married
                        was well-off in her own right. She had brains as well. We worked together to
                        lay the foundation for a well, for the fortune we now possess. 
                        
                            "You will be her choice," said the other, without
                                the quiver of an eye-lash
                        
                         A fortune, I may add, that is to go, every
                        dollar of it, to my daughter. It represents nearly five hundred million
                        dollars. The greatest king in the world to-day is poor in comparison to that
                        vast estate. My daughter will one day be the richest woman in the
                        world."
                    "Why are you taking the pains to enlighten me as to your
                        daughter's future, Mr. Blithers?"
                    "Because I regard you as a sensible young man, Prince."
                    "Thank you. And I suppose you regard your daughter as a sensible
                        young woman?"
                    "Certainly!" exploded Mr. Blithers.
                    "Well, it seems to me, she will be capable of taking care of her
                        fortune a great deal more successfully than you imagine, Mr. Blithers. She
                        will doubtless marry an excellent chap who has the capacity to increase her
                        fortune, rather than to let it stand at a figure that some day may be
                        surpassed by the possessions of an ambitious king."
                    There was fine irony in the Prince's tone but no trace of
                        offensiveness. Nevertheless, Mr. Blithers turned a shade more purple than
                        before, and not from the violence of exercise. He was having some difficulty
                        in controlling his temper. What manner of fool was this fellow who could
                        sneer at five hundred million dollars? He managed to choke back something
                        that rose to his lips and very politely remarked:
                    "I am sure you will like her, Prince. If I do say it myself, she is
                        as handsome as they grow."
                    
                    "So I have been told."
                    "You will see her to-night."
                    "Really, Mr. Blithers, I cannot "
                    "I'll fix it with Mrs. King. Don't you
                        worry."
                    "May I be pardoned for observing that Mrs. King, greatly as I love
                        her, is not invested with the power to govern my actions?" said
                        Robin haughtily.
                    "And may I be pardoned for suggesting that it is your duty to your
                        people to completely understand this loan of mine before you agree to accept
                        it?" said Mr. Blithers, compressing his lips.
                    "Forgive me, Mr. Blithers, but it is not altogether improbable that
                        Graustark may secure the money elsewhere."
                    "It is not only improbable but impossible," said Mr.
                        Blithers flatly.
                    "Impossible?"
                    "Absolutely," said the millionaire so significantly that
                        Robin would have been a dolt not to grasp the situation. Nothing could have
                        been clearer than the fact that Mr. Blithers believed it to be in his power
                        to block any effort Graustark might make in other directions to secure the
                        much-needed money.
                    "Will you come to the point, Mr. Blithers?" said the young
                        Prince, stopping abruptly in the middle of the road and facing his
                        companion. "What are you trying to get at?"
                    Mr. Blithers was not long in getting to the point. In the first place, he was
                        hot and tired and his shoes were hurting; in the second place, he felt that
                        he knew  precisely how to handle these
                        money-seeking scions of nobility. He planted himself squarely in front of
                        the Prince and jammed his hands deep into his coat pockets.
                    "The day my daughter is married to the man of my choice, I will hand
                        over to that man exactly twenty million dollars," he said slowly,
                        impressively.
                    "Yes, go on."
                    "The sole object I have in life is to see my girl happy and at the
                        same time at the top of the heap. She is worthy of any man's love.
                        She is as good as gold. She "
                    "The point is this, then: You would like to have me for a
                        son-in-law."
                    "Yes," said Mr. Blithers.
                    Robin grinned. He was amused in spite of himself. "You take it for
                        granted that I can be bought?"
                    "I have not made any such statement."
                    "And how much will you hand over to the man of her
                        choice when she marries him?" enquired the young man.
                    "You will be her choice," said the other, without the
                        quiver of an eye-lash.
                    "How can you be sure of that? Has she no mind of her own?"
                    "It isn't incomprehensible that she should fall in love
                        with you, is it?"
                    "It might be possible, of course, provided she is not already in
                        love with some one else."
                    Mr. Blithers started. "Have you heard any one  say that but, that's nonsense! She's not in
                        love with any one, take it from me. And just to show you how fair I am to
                        her and to you I'll stake my head you fall in love with each other
                        before you've been together a week."
                    "But we're not going to be together for a week."
                    "I should have said before you've known each other a week.
                        You will find "
                    "Just a moment, please. We can cut all this very short, and go about
                        our business. I've never seen your daughter, nor, to my knowledge,
                        has she ever laid eyes on me. From what I've heard of her, she has a mind of her own. You will not be able to force her
                        into a marriage that doesn't appeal to her, and you may be quite
                        sure, Mr. Blithers, that you can't force me into one. I do not want
                        you to feel that I have a single disparaging thought concerning Miss
                        Blithers. It is possible that I could fall in love with her inside of a
                        week, or even sooner. But I don't intend to, Mr. Blithers, any more
                        than she intends to fall in love with me. You say that twenty millions will
                        go to the man she marries, if he is your choice. Well, I don't give
                        a hang, sir, if you make it fifty millions. The chap who gets it will not be
                        me, so what's the odds? You "
                    "Wait a minute, young man," said Mr. Blithers coolly. (He
                        was never anything but cool when under fire.) "Why not wait until
                        you have met my daughter before making a statement like that? After all, am
                        I not the one who is taking chances? Well, I'm  willing to risk my girl's happiness with you and
                        that's saying everything when you come right down to it. She will
                        make you happy in "
                    "I am not for sale, Mr. Blithers," said Robin abruptly.
                        "Good morning." He turned into the wood and was sauntering
                        away with his chin high in the air whe- Mr. Blithers
                        called out to him from behind.
                    "I shall expect you to-night, just the same."
                    Robin halted, amazed by the man's assurance. He retraced his steps
                        to the roadside.
                    "Will you pardon a slight feeling of curiosity on my part, Mr.
                        Blithers, if I ask whether your daughter consents to the arrangement you
                        propose. Does she approve of the scheme?"
                    Mr. Blithers was honest. "No, she doesn't," he
                        said succinctly. "At least, not at present. I'll be honest
                        with you. She stayed away from the ball last night simply because she did
                        not want to meet you. That's the kind of a girl she is."
                    "By jove, I take off my hat to her," cried Robin.
                        "She is a brick, after all. Take it from me, Mr. Blithers, you will
                        not be able to hand over twenty millions without her consent. I believe that
                        I should enjoy meeting her, now that I come to think of it. It would be a
                        pleasure to exchange confidences with a girl of that sort."
                    Mr. Blithers betrayed agitation. "See here, Prince, I don't
                        want her to know that I've said anything to you about this
                        matter," he said, unconsciously lowering his voice as if fearing
                        that Maud might be  somewhere within hearing
                        distance. "This is between you and me. Don't breathe a
                        word of it to her. 'Gad, she'd she'd skin me
                        alive!" At the very thought of it, he wiped his forehead with
                        unusual vigour.
                    Robin laughed heartily. "Rest easy, Mr. Blith- I
                        shall not even think of your proposition again, much less speak of
                        it."
                    "Come now, Prince; wait until you've seen her. I know
                        you'll get on famously "
                    "I should like her to know that I consider her a brick, Mr.
                        Blithers. Is it too much to ask of you? Just tell her that I think
                        she's a brick."
                    "Tell her yourself," growled Mr. Blithers, looking very
                        black. "You will see her this evening," he added levelly.
                    "Shall I instruct your chauffeur to come for you up here or will you
                        walk back to "
                    "I'll walk to Red Roof," said Mr. Blithers
                        doggedly. "I'm going to ask Mrs. King to let you off for
                        to-night."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    A LETTER FROM MAUD
                    MR. BLITHERS, triumphant, left Red Roof
                        shortly after luncheon; Mr. Blithers, dismayed, arrived at Blitherwood a
                        quarter of an hour later. He had had his way with Robin, who, after all, was
                        coming to dinner that evening with Count Quinnox. The Prince, after a few
                        words in private with the Count, changed his mind and accepted Mr.
                        Blithers' invitation with a liveliness that was mistaken for
                        eagerness by that gentleman, who had made very short work of subduing Mrs.
                        King when she tried to tell him that her own dinner-party would be ruined if
                        the principal guest defaulted. He was gloating over his victory up to the
                        instant he reached his own lodge gates. There dismay sat patiently waiting
                        for him in the shape of a messenger from the local telegraph office in the
                        village below. He had seen Mr. Blithers approaching in the distance, and,
                        with an astuteness that argued well for his future success in life, calmly
                        sat down to wait instead of pedaling his decrepit bicycle up the long slope
                        to the villa.
                    He delivered a telegram and kindly vouchsafed the information that it was
                        from New York.
                    Mr. Blithers experienced a queer sinking of the heart as he gazed at the
                        envelope. Something warned  him that if he
                        opened it in the presence of the messenger he would say something that a
                        young boy ought not to hear.
                    "It's from Maud," said the obliging boy, beaming
                        good-nature. It cost him a quarter, that bit of gentility, for Mr. Blithers
                        at once said something that a messenger boy ought to hear, and ordered
                        Jackson to go ahead.
                    It was from Maud and it said: "I shall stay in town a few days
                        longer. It is delightfully cool here. Dear old Miranda is at the Ritz with
                        me and we are having a fine spree. Don't worry about money. I find
                        I have a staggering balance in the bank. The cashier showed me where I had
                        made a mistake in subtraction of an even ten thousand. I was amazed to find
                        what a big difference a little figure makes. Have made no definite plans but
                        will write Mother to-night. Please give my love to the Prince. Have you seen
                        to-day's Town Truth? Or worse, has he seen it?
                        Your loving daughter, Maud."
                    The butler was sure it was apoplexy, but the chauffeur, out of a wide
                        experience, announced, behind his hand, that he would be all right the
                        instant the words ceased to stick in his throat. And he was right. Mr.
                        Blithers was all right. Not even the chauffeur had seen
                        him when he was more so.
                    A little later on, after he had cooled off to a quite considerable extent,
                        Mr. Blithers lighted a cigar and sat down in the hall outside his
                        wife's bed-chamber door. She was having her beauty nap. Not even he
                             possessed the temerity to break in upon
                        that. He sat and listened for the first sound that would indicate the
                        appeasement of beauty, occasionally hitching his chair a trifle nearer to
                        the door in the agony of impatience. By the time Jackson returned from the
                        village with word that a copy of Town Truth was not to be
                        had until the next day, he was so close to the door that if any one had
                        happened to stick a hat pin through the keyhole at precisely the right
                        instant it would have punctured his left ear with appalling results.
                    "What are we going to do about it?" he demanded three
                        minutes after entering the chamber. His wife was prostrate on the luxurious
                        couch from which she had failed to arise when he burst in upon her with the
                        telegram in his hand.
                    "Oh, the foolish child," she moaned. "If she only
                        knew how adorable he is she wouldn't be acting in this perfectly
                        absurd manner. Every girl who was here last night is madly in love with him.
                        Why must Maud be so obstinate?"
                    Mr. Blithers was very careful not to mention his roadside experience with the
                        Prince, and you may be sure that he said nothing about his proposition to
                        the young man. He merely declared, with a vast bitterness in his soul, that
                        the Prince was coming to dinner, but what the deuce was the use?
                    "She ought to be soundly spoken to," said he, breaking the
                        sentence with a hasty gulp. "Now, Lou, there's just one
                        thing to do. I must go to New York on the midnight train and get her. That
                        woman was  all right as a tutor, but hanged if
                        I like to see a daughter of mine traipsing around New York with a school
                        teacher. She "
                    "You forget that she has retired on a competence. She is not in
                        active employment, Will. You forget that she is one of the Van
                        Valkens."
                    "There you go, talking about good old families again. Why is it that
                        so blamed many of your fine old blue stockings are hunting jobs "
                    "Now don't be vulgar, Will," she cut in.
                        "Maud is quite safe with Miranda, and you know it perfectly well,
                        so don't tall like that. I think it would be a fearful mistake for
                        you to go to New York. She would never forgive you and, what is more to the
                        point, she wouldn't budge a step if you tried to bully her into
                        coming home with you. You know it quite as well as I do."
                    He groaned. "Give me a chance to think, Lou. Just half a chance,
                        that's all I ask. I'll work out some "
                    "Wait until her letter comes. We'll see what she has to
                        say. Perhaps she intends coming home tomorrow, who can tell? This may be a
                        pose on her part. Give her free rein and she will not pull against the bit.
                        It may surprise her into doing the sensible thing if we calmly ignore her
                        altogether. I've been thinking it over, and I've come to
                        the conclusion that we'll be doing the wisest thing in the world if
                        we pay absolutely no attention to her."
                    "By George, I believe you've hit it, Lou! She'll
                             be looking for a letter or telegram from
                        me and she'll not receive a word, eh? She'll be expecting
                        us to beg her to come back and all the while we just sit tight and say not a
                        word. We'll fool her, by thunder. By to-morrow afternoon
                        she'll be so curious to know what's got into us that
                        she'll come home on a run. You're right. It takes a thief
                        to catch a thief, which is another way of saying that it takes a woman to
                        understand a woman. We'll sit tight and let Maud worry for a day or
                        two. It will do her good."
                    Maud's continued absence was explained to Prince Robin that evening,
                        not by the volcanic Mr. Blithers but by his practised and adroit better-half
                        who had no compunction in ascribing it to the alarming condition of a very
                        dear friend in New York, one of the Van Valkens, you know.
                    "Maud is so tender-hearted, so loyal, so really sweet about her
                        friends, that nothing in the world could have induced her to leave this dear
                        friend, don't you know."
                    "I am extremely sorry not to have met your daughter," said
                        Robin very politely.
                    "Oh, but she will be here in a day or two, Prince."
                    "Unfortunately, we are leaving to-morrow, Mrs. Blithers."
                    "To-morrow?" murmured Mrs. Blithers, aghast.
                    "I received a cablegram to-day advising me to return to Edelweiss at
                        once. We are obliged to cut short a very charming visit with Mr. and Mrs.
                        King and to give up the trip to Washington. Lieutenant  Dank left for New York this afternoon to exchange our
                        reservations for the first ship that we can "
                    "What's this?" demanded Mr. Blithers, abruptly
                        withdrawing his attention from Count Quinnox who was in the middle of a
                        sentence when the interruption came. They were on the point of going out to
                        dinner. "What's this?"
                    "The Prince says that he is leaving to-morrow "
                    "Nonsense!" exploded Mr. Blithers, with no effort toward
                        geniality. "He doesn't mean it. Why, why, we
                        haven't signed a single agreement "
                    "Fortunately it isn't necessary for me to sign anything,
                        Mr. Blithers," broke in Robin hastily. "The papers are to
                        be signed by the Minister of Finance, and afterwards my signature is
                        attached in approval. Isn't that true, Count Quinnox?"
                    "I daresay Mr. Blithers understands the situation
                        perfectly," said the Count.
                    Mr. Blithers looked blank. He did understand the situation,
                        that was the worst of it. He knew that although the cabinet had sanctioned
                        the loan by cable, completing the transaction so far as it could be
                        completed at this time, it was still necessary for the Minister of Finance
                        to sign the agreement under the royal seal of Graustark.
                    "Of course I understand it," he said bluntly.
                        "Still I had it in mind to ask the Prince to put his signature to a
                        sort of preliminary document which would at least assure me that he would
                        sign the final  agreement when the time comes.
                        That's only fair, isn't it?"
                    "Quite fair, Mr. Blithers. The Prince will sign such an article
                        to-morrow or the next day at your office in the city. Pray have no
                        uneasiness, sir. It shall be as you wish. By the way, I understood that your
                        solicitor your lawyer, I should say, was to be here this evening. It had
                        occurred to me that he might draw up the statement, if Mrs. Blithers will
                        forgive us in our haste "
                    "He couldn't get here," said Mr. Blithers, and no
                        more. He was thinking too intently of something more important.
                        "What's turned up?"
                    "Turned up, Mr. Blithers?"
                    "Yes in Groostock. What's taking you off in such a
                        hurry?"
                    "The Prince has been away for nearly six months," said the
                        Count, as if that explained everything.
                    "Was it necessary to cable for him to come home?" persisted
                        the financier.
                    "Graustark and Dawsbergen are endeavouring to form an alliance, Mr.
                        Blithers, and Prince Robin's presence at the capitol is very much
                        to be desired in connection with the project."
                    "What kind of an alliance?"
                    The Count looked bored. "An alliance prescribed for the general
                        improvement of the two races, I should say, Mr. Blithers." He
                        smiled. "It would in no way impair the credit of Graustark,
                        however. It is what  you might really describe
                        as a family secret, if you will pardon my flippancy."
                    The butler announced dinner.
                    "Wait for a couple of days, Prince, and I'll send you down
                        to New York by special train," said Mr. Blithers.
                    "Thank you. It is splendid of you. I daresay everything will depend
                        on Dank's success in "
                    "Crawford," said Mr. Blithers to the butler, "ask
                        Mr. Davis to look up the sailings for next week and let me know at once,
                        will you?" Turning to the Prince, he went on: "We can wire
                        down to-night and engage passage for next week. Davis is my secretary.
                        I'll have him attend to everything. And now let's forget
                        our troubles."
                    A great deal was said by her parents about Maud's unfortunate
                        detention in the city. Both of them were decidedly upset by the sudden
                        change in the Prince's plans. Once under pretext of whispering to
                        Crawford about the wine, Mr. Blithers succeeded in transmitting a question
                        to his wife. She shook her head in reply, and he sighed audibly. He had
                        asked if she thought he'd better take the midnight train.
                    Mr. Davis found that there were a dozen ships sailing the next week, but
                        nothing came of it, for the Prince resolutely declared he would be obliged
                        to take the first available steamer.
                    "We shall go down to-morrow," he said, and even Mr.
                        Blithers subsided. He looked to his wife in desperation.  She failed him for the first time in her
                        life. Her eyes were absolutely messageless.
                    "I'll go down with you," he said, and then gave
                        his wife a look of defiance.
                    The next morning brought Maud's letter to her mother. It said:
                        "Dearest Mother: I enclose the cutting from Town
                            Truth. You may see for yourself what a sickening thing it is. The
                        whole world knows by this time that the ball was a joke a horrible joke.
                        Everybody knows that you are trying to hand me over to Prince Robin neatly
                        wrapped up in bank notes. And everybody knows that he is laughing at us, and
                        he isn't alone in his mirth either. What must the Truxton Kings
                        think of us? I can't bear the thought of meeting that pretty,
                        clever woman face to face. I know I should die of mortification, for, of
                        course, she must believe that I am dying to marry anything on earth that has
                        a title and a pair of legs. Somehow I don't blame you and dad. You
                        really love me, I know, and you want to give me the best that the world
                        affords. But why, oh why, can't you let me choose for myself? I
                        don't object to having a title, but I do object to having a husband
                        that I don't want and who certainly could not, by any chance, want
                        me. You think that I am in love with Channie Scoville. Well, I'm
                        not. I am very fond of him, that's all, and if it came to a pinch I
                        would marry him in preference to any prince on the globe. To-day I met a
                        couple of girls who were at the ball. They told me that the Prince is  adorable. They are really quite mad about
                        him, and one of them had the nerve to ask what it was going to cost dad to
                        land him. Town Truth says he is to cost ten millions!
                        Well, you may just tell dad that I'll help him to practice economy.
                        He needn't pay a nickle for my husband when I get him. The world is
                        small. It may be that I shall come upon this same Prince Charming some place
                        before it is too late, and fall in love with him all of a heap. Loads of
                        silly girls do fall in love with fairy princes, and I'm just as
                        silly as the rest of them. Ever since I was a little kiddie I've
                        dreamed of marrying a real, lace-and-gold Prince, the kind Miranda used to
                        read about in the story books. But I also dreamed that he loved me.
                        There's the rub, you see. How could any prince love a girl who set
                        out to buy him with a lot of silly millions? It's not to be
                        expected. I know it is done in the best society, but I should want my prince
                        to be happy instead of merely comfortable. I should want both of us to live
                        happy ever afterwards.
                    "So, dearest mother, I am going abroad to forget, Miranda is going
                        with me and we sail next Saturday on the Jupiter I think.
                        We haven't got our suite, but Mr. Bliss says he is sure he can
                        arrange it for me. If we can't get one on the Jupiter, we'll take some other boat that is just as
                        inconspicuous. You see, I want to go on a ship that isn't likely to
                        be packed with people I know, for it is my intention to travel incog, as
                        they say in the books. No one shall stare at me and say: 'There is
                        that Maud Blithers we were  reading about in
                            Town Truth and all the other papers this week. Her
                        father is going to buy a prince for her.'
                    "I know dad will be perfectly furious, but I'm going or
                        die, one or the other. Now it won't do a bit of good to try to stop
                        me, dearest. The best thing for you and dad to do is to come down at once
                        and say goodbye to me but you are not to go to the steamer! Never! Please,
                        please come, for I love you both and I do so want you to love me. Come
                        to-morrow and kiss your horrid, horrid, disappointing, loathsome daughter
                        and forgive her, too."
                    Mr. Blithers was equal to the occasion. His varying emotions manifested
                        themselves with peculiar vividness during the reading of the letter by his
                        tearful wife. At the outset he was frankly humble and contrite; he felt
                        bitterly aggrieved over the unhappy position in which they innocently had
                        placed their cherished idol. Then came the deep breath of relief over the
                        apparent casting away of young Scoville, followed by an angry snort when
                        Maud repeated the remark of her girl friend. His dismay was pathetic while
                        Mrs. Blithers was fairly gasping out Maud's determination to go
                        abroad, but before she reached the concluding sentences of the extraordinary
                        missive, he was himself again. As a matter of fact, he was almost jubilant.
                        He slapped his knee with resounding force and uttered an ejaculation that
                        caused his wife to stare at him as if the very worst had happened: he was a
                        chuckling lunatic!
                    
                    "Immense!" he exclaimed. "Immense!"
                    "Oh, Will!" she sobbed.
                    "Nothing could be better! Luck is with me, Lou. It always
                        is."
                    "In heaven's name, what are you saying, Will?"
                    "Great Scott, can't you see? He goes abroad, she goes
                        abroad. See? Same ship. See what I mean? Nothing could be finer. They
                        "
                    "But I do not want my child to go abroad," wailed the
                        unhappy mother. "I cannot bear "
                    "Stuff and nonsense! Brace up! Grasp the romance. Both of
                        'em sailing under assumed names. They see each other on deck.
                        Mutual attraction. Love at first sight. Both of 'em. Money no
                        object. There you are. Leave it to me."
                    "Maud is not the kind of girl to take up with a stranger on board
                        "
                    "Don't glare at me like that! Love finds the way, it
                        doesn't matter what kind of a girl she is. But listen to me, Lou;
                        we've got to be mighty careful that Maud doesn't suspect
                        that we're putting up a job on her. She'd balk at the
                        gang-plank and that would be the end of it. She must not know that he is on
                        board. Now, here's the idea," and he talked on in a
                        strangely subdued voice for fifteen minutes, his enthusiasm mounting to such
                        heights that she was fairly lifted to the seventh heaven he produced, and,
                        for once in her life, she actually submitted to his bumptious argument
                        without so much as a single protesting word.
                    The down train at two-seventeen had on board a 
                        most distinguished group of passengers, according to the Pullman conductor
                        whose skilful conniving resulted in the banishment of a few unimportant
                        creatures who had paid for chairs in the observation coach but who had to
                        get out, whether or no, when Mr. Blithers loudly said it was a nuisance
                        having everything on the shady side of the car taken "on a hot day
                        like this." He surreptitiously informed the conductor that there
                        was a prince in his party, and that highly impressed official at once
                        informed ten other passengers that they had no business in a private car and
                        would have to move up to the car ahead and rather quickly at that.
                    The Prince announced that Lieutenant Dank had secured comfortable cabins on a
                        steamer sailing Saturday, but he did not feel at liberty to mention the name
                        of the boat owing to his determination to avoid newspaper men, who no doubt
                        would move heaven and earth for an interview, now that he had become a
                        person of so much importance in the social world. Indeed, his indentity was
                        to be more completely obscured than at any time since he landed on American
                        soil. He thanked Mr. Blithers for his offer to command the "royal
                        suite" on the Jupiter, but declined, volunteering
                        the somewhat curt remark that it was his earnest desire to keep as far away
                        from royalty as possible on the voyage over. (A remark that Mr. Blithers
                        couldn't quite fathom, then or afterward.)
                    Mrs. Blithers' retort to her husband's shocked comment on
                        the un-princely appearance of the young man 
                        and the wofully ordinary suit of clothes worn by the Count, was sufficiently
                        caustic, and he was silenced and convinced. Neither of the distinguished
                        foreigners looked the part of a nobleman.
                    "I wouldn't talk about clothes if I were you,"
                        Mrs. Blithers had said on the station platform. "Who would suspect
                        you of being one of the richest men in America?" She sent a
                        disdainful glance at his baggy knees and bulging coat pockets, and for the
                        moment he shrank into the state of being one of the poorest men in America.
                    They were surprised and not a little perplexed by the fact that the Prince
                        and his companion arrived at the station quite alone. Neither of the Kings
                        accompanied them. There was, Mrs. Blithers admitted, food for thought in
                        this peculiar omission on the part of the Prince's late host and
                        hostess, and she would have given a great deal to know what was back of it.
                        The "luggage" was attended to by the admirable Hobbs,
                        there being no sign of a Red Roof servant about the place. Moreover, there
                        seemed to be considerable uneasiness noticeable in the manner of the two
                        foreigners. They appeared to be unnecessarily impatient for the train to
                        arrive, looking at their watches now and again, and frequently sending sharp
                        glances down the village street in the direction of Red Roof. Blithers
                        afterwards remarked that they made him think of a couple of absconding
                        cashiers. The mystery, however, was never explained.
                    Arriving at the Grand Central Terminal, Prince 
                        Robin and the Count made off in a taxi-cab, smilingly declining to reveal
                        their hotel destination.
                    "But where am I to send my attorney with the agreement you are to
                        sign, Prince?" asked Mr. Blithers, plainly irritated by the young
                        man's obstinacy in declining to be "dropped" at
                        his hotel by the Blithers motor.
                    "I shall come to your office at eleven to-morrow morning, Mr.
                        Blithers," said Robin, his hat in his hand. He had bowed very
                        deeply to Mrs. Blithers.
                    "But that's not right," blustered the financier.
                        "A prince of royal blood hadn't ought to visit a
                        money-grubber's office. It's not "
                    "Noblesse oblige," said Robin, with his
                        hand on his heart. "It has been a pleasure to know you, Mrs.
                        Blithers. I trust we may meet again. If you should ever come to Graustark,
                        please consider that the castle is yours as you hospitable Americans would
                        say."
                    "We surely will," said Mrs. Blithers. Both the Prince and
                        Count Quinnox bowed very profoundly, and did not smile.
                    "And it will be ours," added Mr. Blithers, more to himself
                        than to his wife as the two tall figures moved off with the throng. Then to
                        his wife: "Now to find out what ship they're sailing on.
                        I'll fix it so they'll have to take the
                            Jupiter, whether they want to or not."
                    "Wouldn't it be wisdom to find out what ship Maud is
                        sailing on, Will? It seems to me that she is the real problem."
                    
                    "Right you are!" said he instantly. "I must be
                        getting dotty in my old age, Lou."
                    They were nearing the Ritz when she broke a prolonged period of abstraction
                        by suddenly inquiring: "What did you mean when you said to him on
                        the train: 'Better think it over, Prince,' and what did he
                        mean by the insolent grin he gave you in reply?"
                    Mr. Blithers looked straight ahead.
                    "Business," said he, answering the first question but not
                        the last.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    ON BOARD THE "JUPITER"
                    A GREY day at sea. The Jupiter seemed to
                        be slinking through the mist and drizzle, so still was the world of waters.
                        The ocean was as smooth as a mill pond; the reflected sky came down bleak
                        and drab and no wind was stirring. The rush of the ship through the glassy,
                        sullen sea produced a fictitious gale across the decks; aside from that
                        there was dead calm ahead and behind.
                    A threat seemed to lurk in the smooth, oily face of the Atlantic. Far ahead
                        stretched the grey barricade that seemed to mark the spot where the voyage
                        was to end. There was no going beyond that clear-cut line. When the ship
                        came up to it, there would be no more water beyond; naught but a vast space
                        into which the vessel must topple and go on falling to the end of time. The
                        great sirens were silent, for the fog of the night before had lifted, laying
                        bare a desolate plain. The ship was sliding into oblivion, magnificently
                        indifferent to the catastrophe that awaited its arrival at the edge of the
                        universe. And she was sailing the sea alone. All other ships had passed over
                        that sinister line and were plunging toward a bottom that would never be
                        reached, so long is eternity.
                    The decks of the Jupiter were wet with the almost invisible
                        drizzle that filled the air, yet they were 
                        swarming with the busy pedestrians who never lose an opportunity to let
                        every one know that they are on board. No ship's company is
                        complete without its leg-stretchers. They who never walk a block on dry land
                        without complaining, right manfully lop off miles when walking on the water,
                        and get to be known at least visually to the entire first cabin before they
                        have paraded half way across the Atlantic. (There was once a man who had the
                        strutting disease so badly that he literally walked from Sandy Hook to
                        Gaunt's Rock, but, who, on getting to London, refused to walk from
                        the Savoy to the Cecil because of a weak heart.) The worst feature about
                        these inveterate water-walkers is that they tread quite as proudly upon
                        other people's feet as they do upon their own, and as often as not
                        they appear to do it from choice. Still, that is another story. It has
                        nothing to do with the one we are trying to tell.
                    To resume, the decks of the Jupiter were wet and the sky
                        was drab. New York was twenty-four hours astern and the brief Sunday service
                        had come to a peaceful end. It died just in time to escape the horrors of a
                        popular programme by the band amidships. The echo of the last amen was a
                        resounding thump on the big bass drum.
                    Three tall, interesting looking men stood leaning against the starboard rail
                        of the promenade deck, unmindful of the mist, watching the scurrying throng
                        of exercise fiends. Two were young, the third was old, and of the three
                        there was one who merited the second  glance
                        that invariably was bestowed upon him by the circling passers-by. Each
                        succeeding revolution increased the interest and admiration and people soon
                        began to favour him with frankly unabashed stares and smiles that could not
                        have been mistaken for anything but tribute to his extreme good looks.
                    He stood between the gaunt, soldierly old man with the fierce moustache, and
                        the trim, military young man with one that was close cropped and smart. Each
                        wore a blue serge suit and affected a short visored cap of the same
                        material, and each lazily puffed at a very commonplace briar pipe. They in
                        turn were watching the sprightly parade with an interest that was calmly
                        impersonal. They saw no one person who deserved more than a casual glance,
                        and yet the motley crowd passed before them, apparently without end, as if
                        expecting a responsive smile of recognition from the tall young fellow to
                        whom it paid the honest tribute of curiosity.
                    The customary he-gossip and perennial snooper who is always making the voyage
                        no matter what ship one takes or the direction one goes, nosed out the
                        purser and discovered that the young man was R. Schmidt of Vienna. He was
                        busy thereafter mixing with the throng, volunteering information that had
                        not been solicited but which appeared to be welcome. Especially were the
                        young women on board grateful to the he-gossip, when he accosted them as a
                        perfect stranger to tell them the name of another and even more perfect
                        stranger.
                    
                    "Evidently an Austrian army officer," he always proclaimed,
                        and that seemed to settle it.
                    Luckily he did not overhear R. Schmidt's impassive estimate of the
                        first cabin parade, or he might have had something to repeat that would not
                        have pleased those who took part in it.
                    "Queer looking lot of people," said R. Schmidt, and his two
                        companions moodily nodded their heads.
                    "I am sorry we lost those rooms on the Salammbo," said the younger of his two companions.
                        "I had them positively engaged, money paid down."
                    "Some one else came along with more money, Dank," observed
                        R. Schmidt. "We ought to be thankful that we received anything at
                        all. Has it occurred to you that this boat isn't crowded?"
                    "Not more than half full," said the older man.
                        "All of the others appeared to be packed from hold to funnel. This
                        must be an unpopular boat."
                    "I don't know where we'd be, however, if Mr.
                        Blithers hadn't thought of the Jupiter almost at
                        the last minute," said R. Schmidt.
                    "Nine day boat, though," growled the old man.
                    "I don't mind that in the least. She's a steady
                        old tub and that's something."
                    "Hobbs tells me that it is most extraordinary to find the east bound
                        steamers crowded at this season of the year," said Dank.
                        "He can't understand it at all. The crowds go over in June
                        and July and by this time they should be starting for home. I thought
                        we'd have no difficulty in getting on any one of the big  boats, but, by jove, everywhere I went they
                        said they were full up."
                    "It was uncommonly decent of Blithers not coming down to see us
                        off," said the elderly man, who was down on the passenger list as
                        Totten. "I was apprehensive, 'pon my soul. He stuck like a
                        leech up to the last minute."
                    R. Schmidt was reflecting. "It struck me as queer that he had not
                        heard of the transfer of our securities in London."
                    "I cannot understand Bernstein & Sons selling out at a time
                        when the price of our bonds is considerably below their actual
                        value," said Totten, frowning. "A million pounds sterling
                        is what their holdings really represented; according to the despatches they
                        must have sold at a loss of nearly fifty thousand pounds. It is unbelievable
                        that the house can be hard-pressed for money. There isn't a sounder
                        concern in Europe than Bernstein's."
                    "We should have a Marconi-gram to-night or tomorrow in regard to the
                        bid made in Paris for the bonds held by the French syndicate," said
                        Dank, pulling at his short moustache. "Mr. Blithers is
                        investigating."
                    "There is something sinister in all this," said R. Schmidt.
                        "Who is buying up all of the out-standing bonds and what is behind
                        the movement? London has sold all that were held there and Paris is
                        approached on the same day. If Paris and Berlin should sell, nearly four
                        million pounds in Graustark bonds will be  in
                        the hands of people whose identity and motives appear to be shrouded in the
                        deepest mystery."
                    "And four million pounds represents the entire amount of our bonds
                        held by outside parties," said Totten, with a significant shake of
                        his grizzled head. "The remainder are in the possession of our own
                        institutions and the people themselves. We should hear from Edelweiss, too,
                        in response to my cablegram. Perhaps Romano may be able to throw light on
                        the situation. I confess that I am troubled."
                    "Russia would have no object in buying up our general bonds, would
                        she?" inquired R. Schmidt.
                    "None whatever. She would have nothing to gain. Mr. Blithers assured
                        me that he was not in the least apprehensive. In fact, he declared that
                        Russia would not be buying bonds that do not mature for twelve years to
                        come. There must be some private eh?"
                    A steward was politely accosting the trio.
                    "I beg pardon, is this Mr. Totten?"
                    "Yes."
                    "Message for you, sir, at the purser's."
                    "Bring it to my stateroom, Totten," said R. Schmidt
                        briefly, and the old man hurried away on the heels of the messenger.
                    The two young men sauntered carelessly in an opposite direction and soon
                        disappeared from the deck. A few minutes later, Totten entered the luxurious
                        parlour of R. Schmidt and laid an unopened wireless message on the table at
                        the young man's elbow.
                    
                    "Open it, Totten."
                    The old man slit the envelope and glanced at the contents. He nodded his head
                        in answer to an unspoken question.
                    "Sold?" asked R. Schmidt.
                    "Paris and Berlin, both of them, Prince. Every bond has been gobbled
                        up."
                    "Does he mention the name of the buyer?"
                    "Only by the use of the personal pronoun. He says 'I have
                        taken over the Paris and Berlin holdings. All is well.' It is
                        signed 'B.' So! Now we know."
                    "By jove!" fell from the lips of both men, and then the
                        three Graustarkians stared in speechless amazement at each other for the
                        space of a minute before another word was spoken.
                    "Blithers!" exclaimed Dank, sinking back into his chair.
                    "Blithers," repeated Totten, but with an entirely different
                        inflection. The word was conviction itself as he pronounced it.
                    R. Schmidt indulged in a wry little smile. "It amounts to nearly
                        twenty million dollars, Count. That's a great deal of money to
                        spend in the pursuit of an idle whim."
                    "Humph!" grunted the old Count, and then favoured the
                        sunny-faced Prince with a singularly sharp glance. "Of course, you
                        understand his game?"
                    "Perfectly. It's as clear as day. He intends to  be the crown father-in-law. I suppose he will
                        expect Graustark to establish an Order of Royal Grandfathers."
                    "It may prove to be no jest, Robin," said the Count
                        seriously.
                    "My dear Quinnox, don't look so sad," cried the
                        Prince. "He may have money enough to buy Graustark but he
                        hasn't enough to buy grandchildren that won't grow, you
                        know. He is counting chickens before they're hatched, which
                        isn't a good business principle, I'd have you to
                        know."
                    "What was it he said to you at Red Roof?"
                    "That was nothing. Pure bluster."
                    "He said he had never set his heart on anything that he
                        didn't get in the end, wasn't that it?"
                    "I think so. Something of the sort. I took it as a joke."
                    "Well, I took it as a threat."
                    "A threat?"
                    "A pleasant, agreeable threat, of course. He has set his heart on
                        having the crown of Graustark worn by a Blithers. That is the long and short
                        of it."
                    "I believe he did say to me in the woods that day that he could put
                        his daughter on any throne in Europe if he set his mind to the
                        job," said the Prince carelessly. "But you see, the old
                        gentleman is not counting on two very serious sources of opposition when it
                        comes to this particular case. There is Maud, you see, and me."
                    "I am not so sure of the young lady," said the  Count sententiously. "The opposition
                        may falter a bit there, and half of his battle is won."
                    "You seem to forget, Quinnox, that such a marriage is utterly
                        impossible," said the Prince coldly. "Do you imagine that
                        I would marry "
                    "Pardon me, highness, I said half the battle would
                        be won. I do contemplate a surrender on your part. You are a very pig-headed
                        young man. The most pig-headed I've ever known, if you will forgive
                        me for expressing myself so "
                    "You've said it a hundred times," laughed the
                        Prince, good-naturedly. "Don't apologise. Not only you but
                        the entire House of Nobles have characterised me as pig-headed and I have
                        never even thought of resenting it, so it must be that I believe it to be
                        true."
                    "We have never voiced the opinion, highness, except in reference to
                        our own great desire to bring about the union between our beloved ruler and
                        the Crown Princess of "
                    "So," interrupted R. Schmidt, "it ought to be very
                        clear to you that if I will not marry to please my loyal, devoted cabinet I
                        certainly shall not marry to please William W. Blithers. No doubt the
                        excellent Maud is a most desirable person. In any event, she has a mind of
                        her own. I confess that I am sorry to have missed seeing her. We might have
                        got on famously together, seeing that our point of view is apparently unique
                        in this day and age of the world. No, my good friends, Mr. Blithers is
                        making a poor  investment. He will not get the
                        return for his money that he is expecting. If it pleases him to buy our
                        securities, all well and good. He shall lose nothing in the end. But he will
                        find that Graustark is not a toy, nor the people puppets. More than all
                        that, I am not a bargain sale prince with Christmas tree aspirations, but a
                        very unamiable devil who cultivates an ambition to throw stones at the
                        conventions. Not only do I intend to choose my wife but also the court
                        grandfather. And now let us forget the folly of Mr. Blithers and discuss his
                        methods of business. What does he expect to gain by this extraordinary
                        investment?"
                    Count Quinnox looked at him rather pityingly. "It appears to be his
                        way of pulling the strings, my boy. He has loaned us something like sixteen
                        millions of dollars. We have agreed to deposit our public service bonds as
                        security against the loan, so that practically equalises the situation. It
                        becomes a purely business transaction. But he sees far ahead. This loan of
                        his matures at practically the same time that our first series of government
                        bonds are due for payment. It will be extremely difficult for a small
                        country, such as Graustark, to raise nearly forty millions of dollars in,
                        say ten years. The European syndicates undoubtedly would be willing to renew
                        the loan under a new issue I think it is called refunding, or something of
                        the sort. But Mr. Blithers will be in a position to say no to any such
                        arrangement. He holds the whip hand and "
                    
                    "But, my dear Count," interrupted the Prince,
                        "what if he does hold it? Does he expect to wait ten years before
                        exercising his power? You forget that marriage is his ambition.
                        Isn't he taking a desperate risk in assuming that I will not marry
                        before the ten years are up? And, for that matter, his daughter may decide
                        to wed some other chap who "
                    "That's just the point," said Quinnox.
                        "He is arranging it so that you can't
                        marry without his consent."
                    "The deuce you say!"
                    "I am not saying that he can carry out his design, my dear boy, but
                        it is his secret hope, just the same. So far as Graustark is concerned, she
                        will stand by you no matter what betides. As you know, there is nothing so
                        dear to our hearts as the proposed union of Dawsbergen's Crown
                        Princess and "
                    "That's utterly out of the question, Count," said
                        the Prince, setting his jaws.
                    The count sighed patiently. "So you say, my boy, so you say. But you
                        are not reasonable. How can you know that the Crown Princess of Dawsbergen
                        is not the very mate your soul has been craving "
                    "That's not the point. I am opposed to this miserable
                        custom of giving in marriage without the consent of the people most vitally
                        concerned, and I shall never recede from my position."
                    "You are very young, my dear Prince."
                    "And I intend to remain young, my dear Count. Loveless marriages
                        make old men and women of youths  and maidens.
                        I remember thinking that remark out for myself after a great deal of effort,
                        and you may remember that I sprung it with considerable effect on the
                        cabinet when the matter was formally discussed a year or two ago. You heard
                        about it, didn't you, Dank?"
                    "I did, highness."
                    "And every newspaper in the world printed it as coming from me,
                        didn't they? Well, there you are. I can't go behind my
                        publicly avowed principles."
                    The young fellow stretched his long body in a sort of luxurious defiance, and
                        eyed his companions somewhat combatively.
                    "Sounds very well," growled the Count, with scant reverence
                        for royalty, being a privileged person.
                    "Now, Dank here can marry any one he likes if she'll have
                        him and he is only a lieutenant of the guard. Why should I, prince royal and
                        master of all he surveys, so to speak, why should I be denied a privilege
                        enjoyed by every good-looking soldier who carries a sword in my army my army, do you understand? I leave it to you, Dank, is it
                        fair? Who are you that you should presume to think of a happy marriage while
                        I, your Prince, am obliged to twiddle my thumbs and say 'all right,
                        bring any old thing along and I'll marry her'? Who are
                        you, Dank, that's what I'd like to know."
                    His humour was so high-handed that the two soldiers laughed and Dank ruefully
                        admitted that he was a lucky dog.
                    
                    "You shall not marry into the Blithers family, my lad, if we can
                        help it," said the Count, pulling at his moustaches.
                    "I should say not!" said Dank, feeling for his.
                    "I should as soon marry a daughter of Hobbs," said R.
                        Schmidt, getting up from his chair with restored sprightliness. "If
                        he had one, I mean."
                    "The bonds of matrimony and the bonds of government are by no means
                        synonymous," said Dank, and felt rather proud of himself when his
                        companions favoured him with a stare of amazement. The excellent lieutenant
                        was not given to persiflage. He felt that for a moment he had scintillated.
                    "Shall we send a wireless to Blithers congratulating him on his
                        coup?" enquired the Prince gaily.
                    "No," said the Count. "Congratulating ourselves on
                        his coup is better."
                    "Good! And you might add that we also are trusting to luck. It may
                        give him something to think about. And now where is Hobbs?" said
                        royalty.
                    "Here, sir," said Hobbs, appearing in the bed-room door,
                        but not unexpectedly. "I heard wot you said about my daughter, sir.
                        It may set your mind at rest, sir, to hear that I am childless."
                    "Thank you, Hobbs. You are always thinking of my comfort. You may
                        order luncheon for us in the Ritz restaurant. The head steward has been
                        instructed to reserve the corner table for the whole voyage."
                    
                    "The 'ead waiter, sir," corrected Hobbs politely,
                        and was gone.
                    In three minutes he was back with the information that two ladies had taken
                        the table and refused to be dislodged, although the head waiter had vainly
                        tried to convince them that it was reserved for the passage by R. Schmidst
                        and party.
                    "I am quite sure, sir, he put it to them very hagreeably and
                        politely, but the young lady gave 'im the 'aughtiest look
                        I've ever seen on mortal fice, sir, and he came back to me so
                        'umble that I could 'ardly believe he was an 'ead
                        waiter."
                    "I hope he was not unnecessarily persistent," said the
                        Prince, annoyed. "It really is of no consequence where we
                        sit."
                    "Ladies first, world without end," said Dank.
                        "Especially at sea."
                    "He was not persistent, sir. In fact he was hextraordinary subdued
                        all the time he was hexplaining the situation to them. I could tell by the
                        way his back looked, sir."
                    "Never mind, Hobbs. You ordered luncheon?"
                    "Yes, your 'ighness. Chops and sweet potatoes and
                        "
                    "But that's what we had yesterday, Hobbs."
                    A vivid red overspread the suddenly dismayed face of Hobbs. "
                        'Pon my soul, sir, I I clean forgot that it was yesterday I was
                        thinking of. The young lady gave me such a sharp look, sir, when the
                        'ead  waiter pointed at me that I
                        clean forgot wot I was there for. I will 'urry back and "
                    "Do, Hobbs, that's a good fellow. I'm as hungry as
                        a bear. But no chops!"
                    "Thank you, sir. No chops. Absolutely, sir." He stopped in
                        the doorway. "I daresay it was 'er beauty, sir, that did
                        it. No chops. Quite so, sir."
                    "If Blithers were only here," sighed Dank. "He
                        would make short work of the female invasion. He would have them chucked
                        overboard."
                    "I beg pardon, sir," further adventured Hobbs,
                        "but I fancy not even Mr. Blithers could move that young woman,
                        sir, if she didn't 'appen to want to be moved. Never in my
                        life, sir, have I seen "
                    "Run along, Hobbs," said the Prince. "Boiled
                        guinea hen."
                    "And cantaloupe, sir. Yes, sir, I quite remember everything now,
                        sir."
                    Twenty minutes later, R. Schmidt, seated in the Ritz restaurant, happened to
                        look fairly into the eyes of the loveliest girl he had ever seen, and on the
                        instant forgave the extraordinary delinquency of the hitherto infallible
                        Hobbs.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX
                    THE PRINCE MEETS MISS GUILE
                    LATER on R. Schmidt sat alone in a sheltered corner of the
                        promenade deck, where chairs had been secured by the forehanded Hobbs. The
                        thin drizzle now aspired to something more definite in the shape of a steady
                        downpour, and the decks were almost deserted, save for the few who huddled
                        in the unexposed nooks where the sweep and swish of the rain failed to
                        penetrate. There was a faraway look in the young man's eyes, as of
                        one who dreams pleasantly, with little effort but excellent effect. His pipe
                        had gone out, so his dream must have been long and uninterrupted. Eight
                        bells sounded, but what is time to a dreamer? Then came one bell and two,
                        and now his eyes were closed.
                    Two women came and stood over him, but little did they suspect that his dream
                        was of one of them: the one with the lovely eyes and the soft brown hair.
                        They surveyed him, whispering, the one with a little perplexed frown on her
                        brow, the other with distinct signs of annoyance in her face. The girl was
                        not more than twenty, her companion quite old enough to be her mother: a
                        considerate if not complimentary estimate, for a girl's mother may
                        be either forty, fifty or even fifty-five, when you come to think of it.
                    
                    They were looking for something. That was quite clear. And it was deplorably
                        clear that whatever it was, R. Schmidt was sitting upon it. They saw that he
                        was asleep, which made the search if not the actual recovery quite out of
                        the question. The older woman was on the point of poking the sleeper with
                        the toe of her shoe, being a matter-of-fact sort of person, when the girl
                        imperatively shook her head and frowned upon the lady in a way to prove that
                        even though she was old enough to be the mother of a girl of twenty she was
                        by no means the mother of this one.
                    At that very instant, R. Schmidt opened his eyes. It must have been a kindly
                        poke by the god of sleep that aroused him so opportunely, but even so, the
                        toe of a shoe could not have created a graver catastrophe than that which
                        immediately befell him. He completely lost his head. If one had suddenly
                        asked what had become of it, he couldn't have told, not for the
                        life of him. For that matter, he couldn't have put his finger, so
                        to speak, on any part of his person and proclaimed with confidence that it
                        belonged to R. Schmidt of Vienna. He was looking directly up into a pair of
                        dark, startled eyes, in which there was a very pretty confusion and a far
                        from impervious blink.
                    "I beg your pardon," said the older woman, without the
                        faintest trace of embarrassment, indeed, with some asperity,"I
                        think you are occupying one of our chairs."
                    He scrambled out of the steamer rug and came to his feet, blushing to the
                        roots of his hair.
                    
                    "I beg your pardon," he stammered, and found his
                        awkwardness rewarded by an extremely sweet smile in the eyes of the one he
                        addressed.
                    "We were looking for a letter that I am quite sure was left in my
                        chair," said she.
                    "A letter?" he murmured vaguely, and at once began to
                        search with his eyes.
                    "From her father," volunteered the elderly one, as if it
                        were a necessary bit of information. Then she jerked the rug away and three
                        pairs of eyes examined the place where R. Schmidt had been reclining.
                        "That's odd. Did you happen to see it when you sat down,
                        sir?"
                    "I am confident that there was no letter " began he, and
                        then allowed his gaze to rest on the name-card at the top of the chair.
                        "This happens to be my chair, madam," he
                        went on, pointing to the card. " 'R. Schmidt.' I
                        am very sorry."
                    "The steward must have put that card there while you were at
                        luncheon, dear. What right has he to sell our chairs over again? I shall
                        report this to the Captain "
                    "I am quite positive that this is my chair, sir," said the
                        girl, a spot of red in each cheek. "It was engaged two days ago. I
                        have been occupying it since but it really doesn't matter. It has
                        your name on it now, so I suppose I shall have to "
                    "Not at all," he made haste to say. "It is yours.
                        There has been some miserable mistake. These deck stewards are always
                        messing things up. Still, it is  rather a
                        mystery about the letter. I assure you I saw no "
                    "No doubt the steward who changed the cards had sufficient
                        intelligence to remove all incriminating evidence," said she
                        coolly. "We shall find it among the lost, strayed and stolen
                        articles, no doubt. Pray retain the chair, Mr." She peered at the
                        name-card "Mr. Schmidt."
                    Her cool insolence succeeded in nettling a nature that was usually most
                        gentle. He spoke with characteristic directness.
                    "Thank you, I shall do so. We thereby manage to strike a fair
                        average. I seize your deck chair, you seize my table. We are
                        quits."
                    She smiled faintly. "R. Schmidt did not sound young and gentle, but
                        old and hateful. That is why I seized the table. I expected to find R.
                        Schmidt a fat, old German with very bad manners. Instead, you are neither
                        fat, old, nor disagreeable. You took it very nicely, Mr. Schmidt, and I am
                        undone. Won't you permit me to restore your table to you?"
                    The elderly lady was tapping the deck with a most impatient foot.
                        "Really my dear, we were quite within our rights in approaching the
                        head waiter. He "
                    "He said it was engaged," interrupted the young lady.
                        "R. Schmidt was the name he gave and I informed him it meant
                        nothing to me. I am very sorry, Mr. Schmidt. I suppose it was all because I
                        am so accustomed to having my own way."
                    
                    "In that case, it is all very easy to understand," said he,
                        "for I have always longed to be in a position where I could have my
                        own way. I am sure that if I could have it, I would be a most overbearing,
                        selfish person."
                    "We must enquire at the office for the letter, my dear, before
                        "
                    "It may have dropped behind the chair," said the girl.
                    "Right!" cried R. Schmidt, dragging the chair away and
                        pointing in triumph at the missing letter. He stooped to recover the
                        missive, but she was quick to forestall him. With a little gasp she pounced
                        upon it and, like a child proceeded to hold it behind her back. He
                        stiffened. "I remember that you said it was from your
                        father."
                    She hesitated an instant and then held it forth for his inspection, rather
                        adroitly concealing the postmark with her thumb. It was addressed to
                        "Miss B. Guile, S. S. Jupiter, New York City, N.
                        Y.," and type-written.
                    "It is only fair that we should be quits in every
                        particular," she said, with a frank smile.
                    He bowed. "A letter of introduction," he said, "in
                        the strictest sense of the word. You have already had my card thrust upon
                        you, so everything is quite regular. And now it is only right and proper
                        that I should see what has become of your chairs. Permit me "
                    "Really, Miss Guile," interposed her companion,  "this is quite irregular. I may say
                        it is unusual. Pray allow me to suggest "
                    "I think it is only right that Mr. Schmidt should return good for
                        evil," interrupted the girl gaily. "Please enquire, Mr.
                        Schmidt. No doubt the deck steward will know."
                    Again the Prince bowed, but this time there was amusement instead of
                        uncertainty in his eyes. It was the first time that any one had ever urged
                        him, even by inference, to "fetch and carry." Moreover,
                        she was extremely cool about it, as one who exacts much of young men in
                        serge suits and outing-caps. He found himself wondering what she would say
                        if he were to suddenly announce that he was the Prince of Graustark. The
                        thought tickled his fancy, accounting, no doubt, for the even deeper bow
                        that he gave her.
                    "They can't be very far away," he observed quite
                        meekly. "Oh, I say, steward! One moment, here." A deck
                        steward approached with alacrity. "What has become of Miss
                        Guile's chair?"
                    The man touched his cap and beamed joyously upon the fair young lady.
                    "Ach! See how I have forgot! It is here! The best place on the deck
                        on any deck. See! Two side by side, above the door, away from the draft see,
                        in the corner, ha, ha! Yes! Two by side. The very best. Miss Guile complains
                        of the draft from the door. I exchanged the chairs. See! But I forgot to
                        speak. Yes! See!"
                    And, sure enough, there were the chairs of Miss  Guile and her companion snugly stowed away in the corner, standing at
                        right angles to the long row that lined the deck, the foot rests pointed
                        directly at the chair R. Schmidt had just vacated, not more than a yard and
                        a half away.
                    "How stupid!" exclaimed Miss Guile. "Thank you,
                        steward. This is much better. So sorry, Mr. Schmidt, to have disturbed you.
                        I abhor drafts, don't you?"
                    "Not to the extent that I shall move out of this one," he
                        replied gallantly, "now that I've got an undisputed claim
                        to it. I intend to stand up for my rights, Miss Guile, even though you find
                        me at your feet."
                    "How perfectly love " began Miss Guile, a gleam of real
                        enthusiasm in her eyes. A sharp, horrified look from her companion served as
                        a check, and she became at once the coolly indifferent creature who exacts
                        everything. "Thank you, Mr. Schmidt, for being so nice when we were
                        trying so hard to be horrid."
                    "But you don't know how nice you are when you are trying to
                        be horrid," he remarked. "Are you not going to sit down,
                        now that we've captured the disappearing chair?"
                    "No," she said, and he fancied he saw regret in her eyes.
                        "I am going to my room, if I can find it. No doubt it also is lost.
                        This seems to be a day for misplacing things."
                    "At any rate, permit me to thank you for discovering me, Miss
                        Guile."
                    
                    "Oh, I daresay I shall misplace you, too, Mr. Schmidt." She
                        said it so insolently that he flushed as he drew himself up and stepped
                        aside to allow her to pass. For an instant their eyes met, and the sign of
                        the humble was not to be found in the expression of either.
                    "Even that will be something for me to look
                        forward to, Miss Guile," said he. Far from being vexed, she
                        favoured him with a faint smile of was it wonder or admiration?
                    Then she moved away, followed by the uneasy lady, who was old enough to be
                        her mother and wasn't.
                    Robin remained standing for a moment, looking after her, and somehow he felt
                        that his dream was not yet ended. She turned the corner of the deck building
                        and was lost to sight. He sat down, only to arise almost instantly, moved by
                        a livelier curiosity than he ever had felt before. Conscious of a certain
                        feeling of stealth, he scrutinised the cards in the backs of the two chairs.
                        The steward was collecting the discarded steamer-rugs farther down the deck,
                        and the few passengers who occupied chairs, appeared to be snoozing, all of
                        which he took in with his first appraising glance. "Miss
                        Guile" and "Mrs. Gaston" were the names he read.
                    "Americans," he mused. "Young lady and chaperone,
                        that's it. A real American beauty! And Blithers loudly boasts that
                        his daughter is the prettiest girl in America! Shades of Venus! Can there be
                        such a thing on earth as a prettier girl than this one?  Can nature have performed the impossible? Is America so full
                        of lovely girls that this one must take second place to a daughter of
                        Blithers? I wonder if she knows the imperial Maud. I'll make it a
                        point to inquire."
                    Moved by a sudden restlessness, he decided that he was in need of exercise. A
                        walk would do him good. The same spirit of restlessness, no doubt, urged him
                        to walk rather rapidly in the direction opposite to that taken by the lovely
                        Miss Guile. After completely circling the deck once he decided that he did
                        not need the exercise after all. His walk had not benefitted him in the
                        least. She had gone to her room. He returned to his chair,
                        conscious of having been defeated but without really knowing why or how. As
                        he turned into the dry, snug corner, he came to an abrupt stop and stared.
                        Miss Guile was sitting in her chair, neatly encased in a mummy-like sheath
                        of grey that covered her slim body to the waist.
                    She was quite alone in her nook, and reading. Evidently the book interested
                        her, for she failed to look up when he clumsily slid into his chair and
                        threw the rug over his legs dreadfully long, uninteresting legs, he thought,
                        as he stretched them out and found that his feet protruded like a pair of
                        white obelisks.
                    Naturally he looked seaward, but in his mind's eye he saw her as he
                        had seen her not more than ten minutes before: a slim, tall girl in a smart
                        buff coat, with a limp white hat drawn down over her hair by means of a
                        bright green veil; he had had a glimpse of staunch tan  walking-shoes. He found himself wondering how he had missed
                        her in the turn about the deck, and how she could have ensconced herself so
                        snugly during his brief evacuation of the spot. Suddenly it occurred to him
                        that she had returned to the chair only after discovering that his was
                        vacant. It wasn't a very gratifying conclusion.
                    An astonishing intrepidity induced him to speak to her after a lapse of five
                        or six minutes, and so surprising was the impulse that he blurted out his
                        question without preamble.
                    "How did you manage to get back so quickly?" he inquired.
                    She looked up, and for an instant there was something like alarm in her
                        lovely eyes, as of one caught in the perpetration of a guilty act.
                    "I beg your pardon," she said, rather indistinctly.
                    "I was away less than eight minutes," he declared, and she
                        was confronted by the wonderfully frank smile that never failed to work its
                        charm. To his surprise, a shy smile grew in her eyes, and her warm red lips
                        twitched uncertainly. He had expected a cold rebuff. "You must have
                        dropped through the awning."
                    "Your imagination is superior to that employed by the author of this
                        book," she said, "and that is saying a good deal, Mr.
                        Mr."
                    "Schmidt," he supplied cheerfully. "May I inquire
                        what book you are reading?"
                    
                    "You would not be interested. It is by an American."
                    "I have read a great many American novels," said he
                        stiffly. "My father was an American. Awfully jolly books, most of
                        them."
                    "I looked you up in the passenger list a moment ago," she
                        said coolly. "Your home is in Vienna. I like Vienna."
                    He was looking rather intently at the book, now partly lowered.
                        "Isn't that the passenger list you have concealed in that
                        book?" he demanded.
                    "It is," she replied promptly. "You will pardon a
                        natural curiosity? I wanted to see whether you were from New York."
                    "May I look at it, please?"
                    She closed the book. "It isn't necessary. I am from New York."
                    "By the way, do you happen to know a Miss Blithers, Maud
                        Blithers?"
                    Miss Guile frowned reflectively. "Blithers? The name is a familiar
                        one. Maud Blithers? What is she like?"
                    "She's supposed to be very good-looking. I've
                        never seen her."
                    "How queer to be asking me if I know her, then. Why do you ask?"
                    "I've heard so much about her lately. She is the daughter
                        of William Blithers, the great capitalist."
                    "Oh, I know who he is," she exclaimed. "Perfect
                        roodles of money, hasn't he?"
                    
                    "Roodles?"
                    "Loads, if it means more to you. I forgot that you are a foreigner.
                        He gave that wonderful ball last week for the Prince of of Oh, some
                        insignificant little place over in Europe. There are such a lot of queer
                        little duchies and principalities, don't you know; it is quite
                        impossible to tell one from the other. They don't even appear on
                        the maps."
                    He took it with a perfectly straight face, though secretly annoyed.
                        "It was the talk of the town, that ball. It must have cost roodles
                        of money. Is that right?"
                    "Yes, but it doesn't sound right when you say it. Naturally
                        one doesn't say roodles in Vienna."
                    "We say noodles," said he. "I am very fond of
                        them. But to resume; I supposed every one in New York knew Miss Blithers.
                        She's quite the rage, I'm told."
                    "Indeed? I should think she might be, Mr. Schmidt, with all those
                        lovely millions behind her."
                    He smiled introspectively. "Yes; and I am told that, in spite of
                        them, she is the prettiest girl in New York."
                    She appeared to lose interest in the topic. "Oh, indeed?"
                    "But," he supplemented gracefully, "it
                        isn't true."
                    "What isn't true?"
                    "The statement that she is the prettiest girl in New York."
                    
                    "How can you say that, when you admit you've never seen
                        her?"
                    "I can say it with a perfectly clear conscience, Miss
                        Guile," said he, and was filled with delight when she bit her lip
                        as a sign of acknowledgment.
                    "Oh, here comes the tea," she cried, with a strange
                        eagerness in her voice. "I am so glad." She scrambled
                        gracefully out of her rug and arose to her feet.
                    "Aren't you going to have some?" he cried.
                    "Yes," she said, quite pointedly. "In my room, Mr.
                        Schmidt," and before he could get to his feet she was moving away
                        without so much as a nod or smile for him. Indeed, she appeared to have
                        dismissed him from her thoughts quite as completely as from her vision. He
                        experienced a queer sensation of shrivelling.
                    At dinner that night, she failed to look in his direction, a circumstance
                        that may not appear extraordinary when it is stated that she purposely or
                        inadvertently exchanged seats with Mrs. Gaston and sat with her back to the
                        table occupied by R. Schmidt and his friends. He had to be content with a
                        view of the most exquisite back and shoulders that good fortune had ever
                        allowed him to gaze upon. And then there was the way that her soft brown
                        hair grew above the slender neck, to say nothing of but Mrs. Gaston was
                        watching him with most unfriendly eyes, so the feast was spoiled.
                    The following day was as unlike its predecessor as black is like white.
                        During the night the smooth  grey pond had
                        been transformed into a turbulent, storm-threshed ocean; the once gentle
                        wind was now a howling gale that swept the decks with a merciless lash in
                        its grip and whipped into submission all who vaingloriously sought to defy
                        its chill dominion. Not rain, but spray from huge, swashing billows, clouded
                        the decks, biting and cutting like countless needles, each drop with the
                        sting of a hornet behind it. Now the end of the world seemed far away, and
                        the jumping off place was a rickety wall of white and black, leaning against
                        a cold, drear sky.
                    Only the hardiest of the passengers ventured on deck; the exhilaration they
                        professed was but another name for bravado. They shivered and gasped for
                        breath as they forged their bitter way into the gale, and few were they who
                        took more than a single turn of the deck. Like beaten cowards they soon
                        slunk into the sheltered spots, or sought even less heroic means of
                        surrender by tumbling into bed with the considerate help of unsmiling
                        stewards. The great ship went up and the great ship came down: when up so
                        high that the sky seemed to be startlingly near and down so horribly low
                        that the bottom of the ocean was even nearer. And it creaked and groaned and
                        sighed even above the wild monody of the wind, like a thing in misery, yet
                        all the while holding its sides to keep from bursting with laughter over the
                        plight of the little creature whom God made after His own image but not
                        until after all of the big things of the universe had been designed.
                    
                    R. Schmidt, being a good sailor and a hardy young chap, albeit a prince of
                        royal blood, was abroad early, after a breakfast that staggered the few who
                        remained unstaggered up to that particular crisis. A genial sailor-man and
                        an equally ungenial deck swabber advised him, in totally different styles of
                        address, to stay below if he knew what was good for him, only to be thanked
                        with all the blitheness of a man who jolly well knows what is good for him,
                        or who doesn't care whether it is good for him or not so long as he
                        is doing the thing that he wants to do.
                    He took two turns about the deck, and each time as he passed the spot he sent
                        a covert glance into the corner where Miss Guile's chair was
                        standing. Of course he did not expect to find her there in weather like
                        this, but well, he looked and that is the end to the argument. The going was
                        extremely treacherous and unpleasant he was free to confess to the genial
                        sailor-man after the second breathless turn, and gave that worthy a bright
                        silver dollar upon receiving a further bit of advice: to sit down somewhere
                        out of the wind, sir.
                    Quinnox and Dank were hopelessly bed-ridden, so to speak. They were very
                        disagreeable, cross and unpleasant, and somehow he felt that they hated
                        their cheerful, happy-faced Prince. Never before had Count Quinnox scowled
                        at him, no matter how mad his pranks as a child or how silly his actions as
                        a youth. Never before had any one told him to go to the devil. He rather
                        liked it. And he rather admired  poor Dank for
                        ordering him out of his cabin, with a perfectly astounding oath as a climax
                        to the command. Moreover, he thought considerably better of the faithful
                        Hobbs for an amazing exposition of human equality in the matter of a pair of
                        boots that he desired to wear that morning but which happened to be stowed
                        away in a cabin trunk. He told Hobbs to go to the devil and Hobbs repeated
                        the injunction, with especial heat, to the boots, when he bumped his head in
                        hauling them out of the trunk. Whereupon R. Schmidt said to Hobbs:
                        "Good for you, Hobbs. Go on, please. Don't mind me. It was
                        quite a thump, wasn't it?" And Hobbs managed, between
                        other words, to say that it was a whacking thump, and one he would not
                        forget to his dying day (if he lived through this one!).
                    "And you'd do well to sit in the smoke-room, sir,"
                        further advised the sailor-man, clinging to the rail with one hand and
                        pocketing the coin with the other.
                    "No," said R. Schmidt resolutely. "I
                        don't like the air in the smoke-room."
                    "There's quite a bit of air out 'ere,
                        sir."
                    "I need quite a bit."
                    "I should think you might, sir, being a 'ealthy,
                        strappin' sort of a chap, sir. 'Elp yourself. All the
                        chairs is yours if you'll unpile 'em."
                    The young man battled his way down the deck and soon found himself in the
                        well-protected corner. A half-dozen unoccupied chairs were cluttered about,
                        having been abandoned by persons who over-estimated  their hardiness. One of the stewards was engaged in stacking
                        them up and making them fast.
                    Miss Guile's chair and that of Mrs. Gaston were staunchly fastened
                        down and their rugs were in place. R. Schmidt experienced an exquisite
                        sensation of pleasure. Here was a perfect exemplification of that
                        much-abused thing known as circumstantial evidence. She contemplated coming
                        on deck. So he had his chair put in place, called for his rug, shrugged his
                        chin down into the collar of his thick ulster, and sat down to wait.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    AN HOUR ON DECK
                    SHE literally was blown into his presence. He sprang to
                        his feet to check her swift approach before she could be dashed against the
                        wall or upon the heap of chairs in the corner. The deep roll of the vessel
                        had ended so suddenly that she was thrown off her balance, at best
                        precariously maintained in the hurricane that swept her along the deck. She
                        was projected with considerable violence against the waiting figure of R.
                        Schmidt, who had hastily braced himself for the impact of the slender body
                        in the thick sea-ulster. She uttered an excited little shriek as she came
                        bang up against him and found his ready arms closing about her shoulders.
                    "Oh, goodness!" she gasped, with what little breath she had
                        left, and then began to laugh as she freed herself in confusion a very
                        pretty confusion he recalled later on, after he had recovered to some extent
                        from the effects of an exceedingly severe bump on the back of his head.
                        "How awkward!"
                    "Not at all," he proclaimed, retaining a grip on one of her
                        arms until the ship showed some signs of resuming its way eastward instead
                        of downward.
                    "I am sure it must have hurt dreadfully," she cried.
                        "Nothing hurts worse than a bump. It 
                        seemed as though you must have splintered the wall."
                    "I have a singularly hard head," said he, and forthwith
                        felt of the back of it.
                    "Will you please stand ready to receive boarders? My maid is
                        following me, poor thing, and I can't afford to have her smashed to
                        pieces. Here she is!"
                    Quite a pretty maid, with wide, horrified eyes and a pale green complexion
                        came hustling around the corner. R. Schmidt, albeit a prince, received her
                        with open arms.
                    "Merci, M'sieur!" she squealed and added something
                        in muffled French that strangely reminded him of what Hobbs had said in
                        English. Then she deposited an armful of rugs and magazines at
                        Robin's feet, and clutched wildly at a post actually some ten feet
                        away but which appeared to be coming toward her with obliging swiftness, so
                        nicely was the deck rotating for her. "Mon dieu! Mon
                        dieu!"
                    "You may go back to bed, Marie," cried her mistress in some
                        haste.
                    "But ze rug, I feex it " groaned the unhappy maid, and then
                        once more: "Merci, M'sieur!" She clung to the arm
                        he extended, and tried bravely to smile her thanks.
                    "Here! Go in through this door," he said, bracing the door
                        open with his elbow. "You'll be all right in a little
                        while. Keep your nerve." He closed the door after her and turned to
                        the amused Miss Guile. "Well, it's an ill wind that blows
                        no good," he said enigmatically, and she flushed under the steady
                        smile  in his eyes. "Allow me to
                        arrange your rug for you, Miss Guile."
                    "Thank you, no. I think I would better go inside. It is really too
                        windy "
                    "The wind can't get at you back here in this
                        cubby-hole," he protested. "Do sit down. I'll
                        have you as snug as a bug in a rug before you can say Jack Robinson. See!
                        Now stick 'em out and I'll wrap it around them. There!
                        You're as neatly done up as a mummy and a good deal better off,
                        because you are a long way short of being two thousand years old."
                    "How is your head, Mr. Schmidt?" she inquired with grave
                        concern. "You seem to be quite crazy. I hope "
                    "Every one is a little bit mad, don't you think? Especially
                        in moments of great excitement. I dare-say my head has
                        been turned quite appreciably, and I'm glad that you've
                        been kind enough to notice it. Where is Mrs. Gaston?" He was vastly
                        exhilarated.
                    She regarded him with eyes that sparkled and belied the unamiable nature of
                        her reply.
                    "The poor lady is where she is not at all likely to be annoyed, Mr.
                        Schmidt."
                    Then she took up a magazine and coolly began to run through the pages. He
                        waited for a moment, considerably dashed, and then said
                        "Oh," in a very unfriendly manner. She found her place in
                        the magazine, assumed a more comfortable position, and, with noteworthy
                        resolution, set about reading as if her life depended upon it.
                    
                    He sat down, pulled the rug up to his chin, and stared out at the great,
                        heaving billows. Suddenly remembering another injury, he felt once more of
                        the back of his head.
                    "By jove!" he exclaimed "There is a lump there."
                    "I can't hear you," she said, allowing the
                        magazine to drop into her lap, but keeping her place carefully marked with
                        one of her fingers.
                    "I can hear you perfectly," he said.
                    "It's the way the wind blows," she explained.
                    "Easily remedied," said he. "I'll move
                        into Mrs. Gaston's chair if you think it will help any."
                    "Do!" she said promptly. "You will not disturb me
                        in the least, unless you talk." She resumed her reading, half a
                        page above the finger tip.
                    He moved over and arranged himself comfortably, snugly in Mrs.
                        Gaston's chair. Their elbows almost met. He was prepared to be very
                        patient. For a long time she continued to read, her warm, rosy cheek
                        half-averted, her eyes applied to their task with irritating constancy. He
                        did not despair. Some wise person once had told him that it was only
                        necessary to give a woman sufficient time and she would be the one to
                        despair.
                    A few passengers possessed of proud sea-legs, staggered past the snug couple
                        on their ridiculous rounds of the ship. If they thought of Miss Guile and R.
                        Schmidt at all it was with the scorn that is usually devoted to youth at its
                        very best. There could be no  doubt in the
                        passing mind that these two were sweethearts who managed to thrive on the
                        smallest of comforts.
                    At last his patience was rewarded. She lowered the magazine and stifled a
                        yawn but not a real one.
                    "Have you read it?" she inquired composedly.
                    "A part of it," he said. "Over your
                        shoulder."
                    "Is that considered polite in Vienna?"
                    "If you only knew what a bump I've got on the back of my
                        head you wouldn't be so ungracious," he said.
                    "I couldn't possibly know, could I?"
                    He leaned forward and indicated the spot on the back of his head, first
                        removing his cap. She laughed nervously, and then gently rubbed her fingers
                        over the thick hair.
                    "There is a dreadful lump!" she exclaimed. "Oh,
                        how sorry I am. Do do you feel faint or or I mean, is it very
                        painful?"
                    "Not now," he replied, replacing his cap and favouring her
                        with his most engaging smile.
                    She smiled in response, betraying not the slightest sign of embarrassment. As
                        a matter of fact, she was, if anything, somewhat too self-possessed.
                    "I remember falling down stairs once," she said,
                        "and getting a stupendous bump on my forehead. But that was a great
                        many years ago and I cried. How was I to know that it hurt you, Mr. Schmidt,
                        when you neglected to cry?"
                    
                    "Heroes never cry," said he. "It isn't
                        considered first-class fiction, you know."
                    "Am I to regard you as a hero?"
                    "If you will be so kind, please."
                    She laughed outright at this. "I think I rather like you, Mr.
                        Schmidt," she said, with unexpected candour.
                    "Oh, I fancy I'm not at all bad," said he, after a
                        momentary stare of astonishment. "I am especially good in rough
                        weather," he went on, trying to forget that he was a prince of the
                        royal blood, a rather difficult matter when one stops to consider he was not
                        in the habit of hearing people say that they rather liked him.
                    "Do your friends come from Vienna?" she inquired abruptly.
                    "Yes," he said, and then saved his face as usual by adding
                        under his breath: "but they don't live there." It
                        was not in him to lie outright, hence the handy way of appeasing his
                        conscience.
                    "They are very interesting looking men, especially the younger. I
                        cannot remember when I have seen a more attractive man."
                    "He is a splendid chap," exclaimed Robin, with genuine
                        enthusiasm. "I am very fond of Dank."
                    She was silent for a moment. Something had failed, and she was rather glad of
                        it.
                    "Do you like New York?" she asked.
                    "Immensely. I met a great many delightful people there, Miss Guile.
                        You say you do not know the  Blithers family?
                        Mr. Blithers is a rare old bird."
                    "Isn't there some talk of his daughter being engaged to the
                        Prince of Graustark?"
                    He felt that his ears were red. "The newspapers hinted at something
                        of the sort, I believe." He was suddenly possessed by the curious
                        notion that he was being "pumped" by his fair companion.
                        Indeed, a certain insistent note had crept into her voice and her eyes were
                        searching his with an intentness that had not appeared in them until now.
                    "Have you seen him?"
                    "The Prince?"
                    "Yes. What is he like?"
                    "I've seen pictures of him," he equivocated.
                        "Rather nice looking, I should say."
                    "Of course he is like all foreign noblemen and will leap at the
                        Blithers millions if he gets the chance. I sometimes feel sorry for the poor
                        wretches." There was more scorn than pity in the way she said it,
                        however, and her velvety eyes were suddenly hard and uncompromising.
                    He longed to defend himself, in the third person, but could not do so for
                        very strong and obvious reasons. He allowed himself the privilege, however,
                        of declaring that foreign noblemen are not always as black as they are
                        painted. And then, for a very excellent reason, he contrived to change the
                        subject by asking where she was going on the continent.
                    "I may go to Vienna," she said, with a smile that served to
                        puzzle rather than to delight him. He was 
                        more than ever convinced that she was playing with him. "But pray
                        do not look so gloomy, Mr. Schmidt, I shall not make any demands upon your
                        time while I am there. You may "
                    "I am quite sure of that," he interrupted, with his ready
                        smile. "You see, I am a person of no consequence in Vienna, while
                        you Ah, well, as an American girl you will be hobnobbing with the nobility
                        while the humble Schmidt sits afar off and marvels at the kindness of a fate
                        that befell him in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean, and yet curses the fate
                        that makes him unworthy of the slightest notice from the aforesaid American
                        girl. For, I daresa--, Miss Guile, you, like all American
                        girls, are ready to leap at titles."
                    "That really isn't fair, Mr. Schmidt," she
                        protested, flushing. "Why should you and I quarrel over a condition
                        that cannot apply to either of us? You are not a nobleman, and I am not a
                        title-seeking American girl. So, why all this beautiful irony?"
                    "It only remains for me to humbly beg your pardon and to add that if
                        you come to Vienna my every waking hour shall be devoted to the pleasure of
                        "
                    "I am sorry I mentioned it, Mr. Schmidt," she interrupted
                        coldly. "You may rest easy, for I shall not keep you awake for a
                        single hour. Besides, I may not go to Vienna at all."
                    "I am sure you would like Vienna," he said, somewhat
                        chilled by her manner.
                    "I have been there, with my parents, but it was  a long time ago. I once saw the Emperor and often have I seen
                        the wonderful Prince Lichtenstein."
                    "Have you travelled extensively in Europe?"
                    She was smiling once more. "I don't know what you would
                        consider extensively," she said. "I was educated in Paris,
                        I have spent innumerable winters in Rome and quite as many summers in
                        Scotland, England, Switzerland, Germ"
                    "I know who you are!" he cried out enthusiastically. To his
                        amazement, a startled expression leaped into her eyes. "You are
                        travelling under an assumed name." She remained perfectly still,
                        watching him with an anxious smile on her lips. "You are no other
                        than Miss Baedeker, the well-known authoress."
                    It seemed to him that she breathed deeply. At any rate, her brow cleared and
                        her smile was positively enchanting. Never, in all his life, had he gazed
                        upon a lovelier face. His heart began to beat with a rapidity that startled
                        him, and a queer little sensation, as of smothering, made it difficult for
                        him to speak naturally in his next attempt.
                    "In that case, my pseudonym should be Guide, not Guile,"
                        she cried merrily. The dimples played in her cheeks and her eyes were
                        dancing.
                    "B. stands for Baedeker, I'm sure. Baedeker Guide. If the
                        B. isn't for Baedeker, what is it for?"
                    "Are you asking what the B. really stands for, Mr.
                        Schmidt?"
                    "In a round-about way, Miss Guile," he admitted.
                    
                    "My name is Bedelia," she said, with absolute sincerity.
                        "Me mither is Irish, d'ye see?"
                    "By jove, it's worth a lot of trouble to get you to smile
                        like that," he cried admiringly. "It is the first really
                        honest smile you've displayed. If you knew how it improves you,
                        you'd be doing it all of the time."
                    "Smiles are sometimes expensive."
                    "It depends on the market."
                    "I never take them to a cheap market. They are not classed as
                        necessities."
                    "You couldn't offer them to any one who loves luxuries more
                        than I do."
                    "You pay for them only with compliments, I see, and there is nothing
                        so cheap."
                    "Am I to take that as a rebuke?"
                    "If possible," she said sweetly.
                    At this juncture, the miserable Hobbs hove into sight, not figuratively but
                        literally. He came surging across the deck in a mad dash from one haven to
                        another, or, more accurately, from post to post.
                    "I beg pardon, sir," he gasped, finally steadying himself
                        on wide-spread legs within easy reach of Robin's sustaining person.
                        "There is a wireless for Mr. Totten, sir, but when I took it to
                        'im he said to fetch it to you, being unable to hold up
                        'is head, wot with the wretched meal he had yesterday and the
                        "
                    "I see, Hobbs. Well, where is it?"
                    Hobbs looked embarrassed. "Well, you see, sir, I 
                        
                            "I shall pray for continuous rough weather"
                        
                        
                        -esitated about giving it to you when you appear to be so
                        "
                    "Never mind. You may give it to me. Miss Guile will surely pardon me
                        if I devote a second or two to an occupation she followed so earnestly up to
                        a very short time ago."
                    "Pray forget that I am present, Mr. Schmidt," she said, and
                        smiled upon the bewildered Hobbs, who after an instant delivered the message
                        to his master.
                    Robin read it through and at the end whistled softly.
                    "Take it to Mr. Totten, Hobbs, and see if it will not serve to make
                        him hold up his head a little."
                    "Very good, sir. I hope it will. Wouldn't it be wise for me
                        to hannounce who it is from, sir, to sort of prepare him for "
                    "He knows who it is from, Hobbs, so you needn't worry. It
                        is from home, if it will interest you, Hobbs."
                    "Thank you, sir, it does interest me. I thought it might be from Mr.
                        Blithers."
                    Robin's scowl sent him scuttling away a great deal more rigidly than
                        when he came.
                    "Idiot!" muttered the young man, still scowling.
                    There was silence between the two for a few seconds. Then she spoke
                        disinterestedly:
                    "Is it from the Mr. Blithers who has the millions and the daughter
                        who wants to marry a prince?"
                    "Merely a business transaction, Miss Guile," he said
                        absently. He was thinking of Romano's message.
                    "So it would appear."
                    
                    "I beg pardon? I was er thinking "
                    "It was of no consequence, Mr. Schmidt," she said airily.
                    He picked up the thread once more. "As a matter of fact,
                        I've heard it said that Miss Blithers refused to marry the
                        Prince."
                    "Is it possible?" with fine irony. "Is he such a
                        dreadful person as all that?"
                    "I'm sure I don't know," murmured Robin
                        uncomfortably. "He may be no more dreadful than she."
                    "I cannot hear you, Mr. Schmidt," she persisted, with
                        unmistakeable malice in her lovely eyes.
                    "I'm rather glad that you didn't," he
                        confessed. "Silly remark, you know."
                    "Well, I hope she doesn't marry him," said Miss
                        Guile.
                    "So do I," said R. Schmidt, and their eyes met. After a
                        moment, she looked away, her first surrender to the mysterious something
                        that lay deep in his.
                    "It would prove that all American girls are not so black as
                        they're painted, wouldn't it?" she said, striving
                        to regain the ground she had lost by that momentary lapse.
                    "Pray do not overlook the fact that I am half American," he
                        said. "You must not expect me to say that they paint at
                        all."
                    "Schmidt is a fine old American name," she mused, the
                        mischief back in her eyes.
                    "And so is Bedelia," said he.
                    "Will you pardon me, Mr. Schmidt, if I express  surprise that you speak English without the tiniest suggestion
                        of an accent?"
                    "I will pardon you for everything and anything, Miss
                        Guile," said he, quite too distinctly. She drew back in her chair
                        and the light of raillery died in her eyes.
                    "What an imperial sound it has!"
                    "And why not? The R stands for Rex."
                    "Ah, that accounts for the King's English!"
                    "Certainly," he grinned. "The king can do no
                        wrong, don't you see?"
                    "Your servant who was here speaks nothing but the King's
                        English, I perceive. Perhaps that accounts for a great deal."
                    "Hobbs? I mean to say, 'Obbs? I confess that he has taught
                        me many tricks of the tongue. He is one of the crown jewels."
                    Suddenly, and without reason, she appeared to be bored. As a matter of fact,
                        she hid an incipient yawn behind her small gloved hand.
                    "I think I shall go to my room. Will you kindly unwrap me, Mr.
                        Schmidt?"
                    He promptly obeyed, and then assisted her to her feet, steadying her against
                        the roll of the vessel.
                    "I shall pray for continuous rough weather," he announced,
                        with as gallant a bow as could be made under the circumstances.
                    "Thank you," she said, and he was pleased to take it that
                        she was not thanking him for a physical service.
                    A few minutes later he was in his own room, and  she was in hers, and the promenade deck was as barren as the desert of
                        Sahara.
                    He found Count Quinnox stretched out upon his bed, attenpted not only by
                        Hobbs but also the reanimated Dank. The crumpled message lay on the floor.
                    "I'm glad you waited awhile," said the young
                        lieutenant, getting up from the trunk on which he had been sitting.
                        "If you had come any sooner you would have heard words fit only for
                        a soldier to hear. It really was quite appalling."
                    "He's better now," said Hobbs, more respectfully
                        than was his wont. It was evident that he had sustained quite a shock.
                    "Well, what do you think of it?" demanded the Prince,
                        pointing to the message.
                    "Of all the confounded inpudence " began the Count
                        healthily, and then uttered a mighty groan of impotence. It was clear that
                        he could not do justice to the occasion a second time.
                    Robin picked up the Marconigram, and calmly smoothed out the crinkles. Then
                        he read it aloud, very slowly and with extreme disgust in his fine young
                        face. It was a lengthy communication from Baron Romano, the Prime Minister
                        in Edelweiss.
                    " 'Preliminary agreement signed before hearing Blithers had
                        bought London, Paris, Berlin. He cables his immediate visit to G. Object now
                        appears clear. All newspapers in Europe print despatches from America that
                        marriage is practically arranged between  R.
                        and M. Interviews with Blithers corroborate reported engagement. Europe is
                        amused. Editorials sarcastic. Price on our securities advance two points on
                        confirmation of report. We are bewildered. Also vague rumour they have
                        eloped, but denied by B. Dawsbergen silent. What does it all mean? Wire
                        truth to me. People are uneasy. Gourou will meet you in Paris."
                    In the adjoining suite, Miss Guile was shaking Mrs. Gaston out of a
                        long-courted and much needed sleep. The poor lady sat up and blinked feebly
                        at the excited, starry-eyed girl.
                    "Wake up!" cried Bedelia impatiently. "What do you
                        think? I have a perfectly wonderful suspicion perfectly wonderful."
                    "How can you be so unfeeling?" moaned the limp lady.
                    "This R. Schmidt is Prince Robin of Graustark!" cried the
                        girl excitedly. "I am sure of it just as sure as can be."
                    Mrs. Gaston's eyes were popping, not with amazement but alarm.
                    "Do lie down, child," she whimpered. "Marie! The
                        sleeping powders at once! Do "
                    "Oh, I'm not mad," cried the girl. "Now
                        listen to me and I'll tell you why I believe yes, actually believe
                        him to be the "
                    "Marie, do you hear me?"
                    Miss Guile shook her vigorously. "Wake up! It isn't a
                        nightmare. Now listen!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI
                    THE LIEUTENANT RECEIVES ORDERS
                    THE next day brought not only an agreeable change in the
                        weather but a most surprising alteration in the manner of Mrs. Gaston, whose
                        attitude toward R. Schmidt and his friends had been anything but amicable up
                        to the hour of Miss Guile's discovery. The excellent lady,
                        recovering very quickly from her indisposition became positively polite to
                        the hitherto repugnant Mr. Schmidt. She melted so abruptly and so completely
                        that the young man was vaguely troubled. He began to wonder if his incognito
                        had been pierced, so to speak.
                    It was not reasonable to suppose that Miss Guile was personally responsible
                        for this startling transition from the inimical to the gracious on the part
                        of her companion; the indifference of Miss Guile herself was sufficient
                        proof to the contrary. Therefore, when Mrs. Gaston nosed him out shortly
                        after breakfast and began to talk about the beautiful day in a manner so
                        thoroughly respectful that it savoured of servility, he was taken-aback,
                        flabbergasted. She seemed to be on the point of dropping her knee every time
                        she spoke to him, and there was an unmistakable tremor of excitement in her
                        voice even when she confided to him that she adored the ocean when it was
                        calm. He  forbore asking when Miss Guile might
                        be expected to appear on deck for her constitutional but she volunteered the
                        information, which was neither vague nor yet definite. In fact, she said
                        that Miss Guile would be up soon, and soon is a word that has a double
                        meaning when applied to the movements of capricious womanhood. It may mean
                        ten minutes and it may mean an hour and a half.
                    Mrs. Gaston's severely critical eyes were no longer severe, albeit
                        they were critical. She took him in from head to foot with the eye of an
                        appraiser, and the more she took him in the more she melted, until at last
                        in order to keep from completely dissolving, she said good-bye to him and
                        hurried off to find Miss Guile.
                    Now it is necessary to relate that Miss Guile had been particularly firm in
                        her commands to Mrs. Gaston. She literally had stood the excellent lady up
                        in a corner and lectured her for an hour on the wisdom of silence. In the
                        first place, Mrs. Gaston was given to understand that she was not to breathe
                        it to a soul that R. Schmidt was not R. Schmidt, and she was not to betray
                        to him by word or sign that he was suspected of being the Prince of
                        Graustark. Moreover, the exacting Miss Guile laid great stress upon another
                        command: R. Schmidt was never to know that she was not
                        Miss Guile, but some one else altogether.
                    "You're right, my dear," exclaimed Mrs. Gaston in
                        an excited whisper as she burst in upon her fair  companion, who was having coffee and toast in her parlour. The
                        more or less resuscitated Marie was waiting to do up her mistress's
                        hair, and the young lady herself was alluringly charming in spite of the
                        fact that it was not already "done up." "He is
                        the -r he is just what you think."
                    "Good heavens, you haven't gone and done it, have
                        you," cried the girl, a slim hand halting with a piece of toast
                        half way to her lips.
                    "Gone and done it?"
                    "You haven't been blabbing, have you?"
                    "How can you say that to me? Am I not to be trusted? Am I so weak
                        and "
                    "Don't cry, you old dear! Forgive me. But now tell me
                        absolutely just what you've been up to. Don't mind Marie.
                        She is French. She can always hold her tongue."
                    "Well, I've been talking with him, that's all.
                        I'm sure he is the Prince. No ordinary male could be as sweet and
                        agreeable and sunny as "
                    "Stop!" cried Miss Guile, with a pretty moue, putting the
                        tips of her fingers to her ears after putting the piece of toast into her
                        mouth. "One would think you were a sentimental old maid instead of
                        a cold-blooded, experienced, man-hating married woman."
                    "You forget that I am a widow, my dear. Besides, it is disgusting
                        for one to speak with one's mouth full of buttered toast. It
                        "
                    "Oh, how I used to loathe you when you kept forever  ding-donging at me about the way I ate when I
                        was almost starving. Were you never a hungry little kid? Did you never lick
                        jam and honey off your fingers and "
                    "Many and many a time," confessed Mrs. Gaston, beaming once
                        more and laying a gentle, loving hand on the girl's shoulder. Miss
                        Guile dropped her head over until her cheek rested on the caressing hand,
                        and munched toast with blissful abandon.
                    "Now tell me what you've been up to," she said,
                        and Mrs. Gaston repeated every word of the conversation she had had with R.
                        Schmidt, proving absolutely nothing but stoutly maintaining that her
                        intuition was completely to be depended upon.
                    "And, oh," she whispered in conclusion,
                        "wouldn't it be perfectly wonderful if you two should fall
                        in love with each other "
                    "Don't be silly!"
                    "But you have said that if he should fall in love with you for
                        yourself and not because "
                    "I have also said that I will not marry any man, prince, duke, king,
                        count or anything else unless I am in love with him. Don't overlook
                        that, please."
                    "But he is really very nice. I should think you could fall in love with him. Just think how it would please your
                        father and mother. Just think "
                    "I won't be bullied!"
                    "Am I bullying you?" in amazement.
                    "No; but father tries to bully me, and you know it."
                    
                    "You must admit that the this Mr. Schmidt is handsome, charming,
                        bright "
                    "I admit nothing," said Miss Guile resolutely, and ordered
                        Marie to dress her hair as carefully as possible. "Take as long as
                        you like, Marie. I shall not go on deck for hours."
                    "I I told him you would be up soon," stammered the poor,
                        man-hating ex-governess.
                    "You did?" said Miss Guile, with what was supposed to be a
                        deadly look in her eyes.
                    "Well, he enquired," said the other.
                    "Anything else?" domineered the beauty.
                    "I forgot to mention one thing. He did ask me if
                        your name was really Bedelia."
                    "And what did you tell him?" cried the girl, in sudden
                        agitation.
                    "I managed to tell him that it was," said Mrs. Gaston
                        stiffly.
                    "Good!" cried Miss Guile, vastly relieved, and not at all
                        troubled over the blight that had been put upon a very worthy
                        lady's conscience.
                    When she appeared on deck long afterward, she found every chair occupied. A
                        warm sun, a far from turbulent sea, and a refreshing breeze had brought
                        about a marvellous transformation. Every one was happy, every one had come
                        back from the grave to gloat over the grim reaper's failure to do
                        his worst, although in certain cases he had been importuned to do it without
                        hesitation.
                    She made several brisk rounds of the deck; then,  feeling that people were following her with their eyes, admiringly, to be
                        sure, but what of that? she abandoned the pleasant exercise and sought the
                        seclusion of the sunless corner where her chair was stationed. The
                        ship's daily newspaper was just off the press and many of the
                        loungers were reading the brief telegraphic news from the capitals of the
                        world.
                    During her stroll she passed several groups of men and women who were
                        lightly, even scornfully employed in discussing an article of news which had
                        to do with Mr. Blithers and the Prince of Graustark. Filled with an acute
                        curiosity, she procured a copy of the paper from a steward, and was glancing
                        at the head lines as she made her way into her corner. Double-leaded type
                        appeared over the rumoured engagment of Miss Maud Applegate Blithers, the
                        beautiful and accomplished daughter of the great capitalist, and Robin,
                        Prince of Graustark. A queer little smile played about her lips as she
                        folded the paper for future perusal. Turning the corner of the deck-building
                        she almost collided with R. Schmidt, who stood leaning against the wall,
                        scanning the little newspaper with eyes that were blind to everything else.
                    "Oh!" she gasped.
                    "I'm sorry," he exclaimed, crumpling the paper in
                        his hand as he backed away, flushing. "Stupid of me. Good
                        morning."
                    "Good morning, Mr. Schmidt. It wasn't your fault. I should
                        have looked where I was going. 
                        'Stop, look and listen,' as they say at the railway
                        crossing."
                    " 'Danger' is one of the commonest signs, Miss
                        Guile. It lurks everywhere, especially around corners. I see you have a
                        paper. It appears that Miss Blithers and the Prince are to be married after
                        all."
                    "Yes; it is quite apparent that the Blithers family intends to have
                        a title at any cost," she said, and her eyes flashed.
                    "Would you like to take a few turns, Miss Guile?" he
                        inquired, a trace of nervousness in his manner. "I think I can take
                        you safely over the hurdles and around the bunkers." He indicated
                        the outstretched legs along the promenade deck and the immovable groups of
                        chatterers along the rail.
                    Before deciding, she shot an investigating glance into the corner. Mrs.
                        Gaston was not only there but was engaged in conversation with the
                        grey-moustached gentleman in a near-by chair. It required but half a glance
                        to show that Mr. Totten was unmistakably interested in something the voluble
                        lady had just said to him.
                    "No, thank you, Mr. Schmidt," said Miss Guile hastily, and
                        then hurried over to her chair, a distinct cloud on her smooth brow. Robin,
                        considering himself dismissed, whirled and went his way, a dark flush
                        spreading over his face. Never, in all his life, had he been quite so out of
                        patience with the world as on this bright, sunny morning.
                    
                    Miss Guile's frown deepened when her abrupt appearance at Mrs.
                        Gaston's side caused that lady to look up with a guilty start and
                        to break off in the middle of a sentence that had begun with:
                        "International marriages, as a rule, are Oh!"
                    Mr. Totten arose and bowed with courtly grace to the new arrival on the
                        scene. He appeared to be immensely relieved.
                    "A lovely morning, Miss Guile," he said as he stooped to
                        arrange her rug. "I hear that you were not at all disturbed by
                        yesterday's blow."
                    "I was just telling Mr. Totten that you are a wonderful
                        sailor," said Mrs. Gaston, a note of appeal in her voice.
                        "He says his friend, Mr. Schmidt, is also a good sailor.
                        Isn't it perfectly wonderful?"
                    "I can't see anything wonderful about it," said
                        Miss Guile, fixing the ex-governess with a look that seared.
                    "We were speaking of this rumoured engagement of the Prince of
                        Graustark and er what's the name?" He glanced at his
                        newspaper. "Miss Blithers, of course. I enquired of Mrs. er Gaston
                        if she happens to know the young lady. She remembers seeing her frequently
                        as a very small child."
                    "In Paris," said Mrs. Gaston. "One
                        couldn't very well help seeing her, you know. She was the only
                        child of the great Mr. Blithers, whose name was on every one's lips
                        at the "
                    Miss Guile interrupted. "It would be like the  great Mr. Blithers to buy this toy prince for his daughter as
                        a family plaything or human lap-dog, or something of the sort,
                        wouldn't it?"
                    Mr. Totten betrayed no emotion save amusement. Miss Guile was watching
                        through half-closed eyes. There was a noticeable stiffening of the prim
                        figure of Mrs. Gaston.
                    "I've no doubt Mr. Blithers can afford to buy the most
                        expensive of toys for his only child. You Americans go in for the luxuries
                        of life. What could be more extravagant than the purchase of a royal
                        lap-dog? The only drawback I can suggest is that the Prince might turn out
                        to be a cur, and then where would Mr. Blithers be?"
                    "It is more to the point to ask where Miss Blithers would be, Mr.
                        Totten," said Miss Guile, with a smile that caused the fierce old
                        warrior to afterwards declare to Dank that he never had seen a lovelier girl
                        in all his life.
                    "Ah, but we spoke of the Prince as a lap-dog or a cur, Miss Guile,
                        not as a watch-dog," said he.
                    "I see," said Miss Guile, after a moment. "He
                        wouldn't sleep with one eye open. I see."
                    "The lap of luxury is an enviable resting-place. I know of no prince
                        who would despise it."
                    "But a wife is sometimes a thing to be despised," said she.
                    "Quite true," said Mr. Totten. "I've no
                        doubt that the Prince of Graustark will despise his wife, and for that
                        reason will be quite content to close both eyes  and let her go on searching for her heart's desire."
                    "She would be his Princess. Could he afford to allow his love of
                        luxury to go as far as that?"
                    "Quite as justifiably, I should say, as Mr. Blithers when he
                        delivers his only child into into bondage."
                    "You were about to use another term."
                    "I was, but I thought in time, Miss Guile."
                    R. Schmidt sauntered briskly past at this juncture, looking neither to the
                        right nor left. They watched him until he disappeared down the deck.
                    "I think Mr. Schmidt is a perfectly delightful young man,"
                        said Mrs. Gaston, simply because she couldn't help it.
                    "You really think he will marry Miss Blithers, Mr. Totten?"
                        ventured Miss Guile.
                    "He? Oh, I see the Prince?" Mr. Totten came near to being
                        no diplomat. "How should I know, Miss Guile?"
                    "Of course! How should you know?" she
                        cried.
                    Mr. Totten found something to interest him in the printed sheet and proceeded
                        to read it with considerable avidity. Miss Guile smiled to herself and
                        purposely avoided the shocked look in Mrs. Gaston's eyes.
                    "Bouillon at last," cried the agitated duenna, and
                        peremptorily summoned one of the tray-bearing stewards. "I am
                        famished."
                    Evidently Mr. Totten did not care for his mid-morning refreshment, for, with
                        the most courtly of smiles, he arose and left them to their bouillon.
                    "Here comes Mr. Schmidt," whispered Mrs. Gaston  excitedly, a few moments later, and at once
                        made a movement indicative of hasty departure.
                    "Sit still," said Miss Guile peremptorily.
                    R. Schmidt again passed them by without so much as a glance in their
                        direction. There was a very sweet smile on Miss Guile's lips as she
                        closed her eyes and lay back in her chair. Once, twice, thrice, even as many
                        as six times R. Schmidt strode rapidly by their corner, his head high and
                        his face aglow.
                    At last a queer little pucker appeared on the serene brow of the far from
                        drowsy young lady whose eyes peeped through half closed lids. Suddenly she
                        threw off her rug and with a brief remark to her companion arose and went to
                        her cabin. Mrs. Gaston followed, not from choice but because the brief
                        remark was in the form of a command.
                    Soon afterward, R. Schmidt who had been joined by Dank, threw himself into
                        his chair with a great sigh of fatigue and said:
                    "'Gad, I've walked a hundred miles since
                        breakfast. Have you a match?"
                    "Hobbs has made a very curious discovery," said the young
                        lieutenant, producing his match-box. There was a perturbed look in his eyes.
                    "If Hobbs isn't careful he'll discover a new
                        continent one of these days. He is always discovering something,"
                        said Robin, puffing away at his pipe.
                    "But this is really interesting. It seems that he was in the hold
                        when Miss Guile's maid came down to get into one of her
                        mistress's trunks. Now, the first 
                        letter in Guile is G, isn't it? Well, Hobbs says there are at least
                        half-a-dozen trunks there belonging to the young lady and that all of them
                        are marked with a large red B. What do you make of it?"
                    The Prince had stopped puffing at his pipe.
                    "Hobbs may be mistaken in the maid, Dank. It is likely that they are
                        not Miss Guile's trunks, at all."
                    "He appears to be absolutely sure of his ground. He heard the maid
                        mention Miss Guile's name when she directed the men to get one of
                        the trunks out of the pile. That's what attracted his attention. He
                        confided to me that you are interested in the young lady, and therefore it
                        was quite natural for him to be similarly affected. 'Like master,
                        like man,' d'ye see?"
                    "Really, you know, Dank, I ought to dismiss Hobbs," said
                        Robin irritably. "He is getting to be a dreadful nuisance. Always
                        nosing around, trying to "
                    "But after all, sir, you'll have to admit that he has made
                        a puzzling discovery. Why should her luggage be marked with a B?"
                    "I should say because her name begins with a B," said Robin
                        shortly.
                    "In that case, it isn't Guile."
                    "Obviously." The young man was thinking very hard.
                    "And if it isn't Guile, there must be an excellent reason
                        for her sailing under a false name. She doesn't look like an
                        adventuress."
                    R. Schmidt rewarded this remark with a cold stare.  "Would you mind telling me what she does look like
                        Dank?" he enquired severely.
                    The lieutenant flushed. "I have not had the same opportunity for
                        observation that you've enjoyed, sir, but I should say, off-hand,
                        that she looks like a very dangerous young person."
                    "Do you mean to imply that she is er not altogether what one would
                        call right?"
                    Dank grinned. "Don't you regard her as rather perilously
                        beautiful?"
                    "Oh, I see. That's what you mean. I suppose you got that from Hobbs, too."
                    "Not at all. I have an excellent pair of eyes."
                    "What are you trying to get at, Dank?" demanded Robin
                        abruptly.
                    "I'm trying to get to the bottom of Miss Guile's
                        guile, if it please your royal highness," said the lieutenant
                        coolly. "It is hard to connect the B and the G, you know."
                    "But why should we deny her a privilege that we are enjoying, all
                        three of us? Are we not in the same boat?"
                    "Literally and figuratively. That explains nothing,
                        however."
                    "Have you a theory?"
                    "There are many that we could advance, but, of course, only one of
                        them could be the right one, even if we were acute enough to include it in
                        our list of guesses. She may have an imperative reason for not  disclosing her identity. For instance, she
                        may be running away to get married."
                    "That's possible," agreed Robin.
                    "But not probable. She may be a popular music-hall favourite, or one
                        of those peculiarly clever creatures known as the American newspaper woman,
                        against whom we have been warned. Don't you regard it as rather
                        significant that of all the people on this ship she should be one to attach
                        herself to the unrecognised Prince of Graustark? Put two and two together,
                        sir, and "
                    "I find it singularly difficult to put one and one together,
                        Dank," said the Prince ruefully. "No; you are wrong in
                        both of your guesses. I've encountered music-hall favourites and I
                        can assure you she isn't one of them. And as for your statement
                        that she attached herself to me, you were never so mistaken in your life. I
                        give you my word, she doesn't care a hang whether I'm on
                        the ship or clinging to a life preserver out there in the middle of the
                        Atlantic. I have reason to know, Dank."
                    "So be it," said Dank, but with doubt in his eyes.
                        "You ought to know. I've never spoken to her, so
                        "
                    "She thinks you are a dreadfully attractive chap, Dank,"
                        said Robin mischievously. "She said so only yesterday."
                    Dank gave his prince a disgusted look, and smoked on in silence. His dignity
                        was ruffled.
                    
                    "Her Christian name is Bedelia," ventured Robin, after a
                        pause.
                    "That doesn't get us anywhere," said Dank sourly.
                    "And her mother is Irish."
                    "Which accounts for those wonderful Irish blue eyes that "
                    "So you've noticed them, eh?"
                    "Naturally."
                    "I consider them a very dark grey."
                    "I think we'd better get back to the luggage,"
                        said Dank hastily. "Hobbs thinks that she "
                    "Oh, Lord, Dank, don't tell me what Hobbs thinks,"
                        growled Robin. "Let her make use of all the letters in the alphabet
                        if it pleases her. What is it to us? Moreover, she may be utilising a lot of
                        borrowed trunks, who knows? Or B may have been her initial before she was
                        divorced and "
                    "Divorced?"
                    " her maiden name restored," concluded Robin airily.
                        "Simple deduction, Dank. Don't bother your head about her
                        any longer. What we know isn't going to hurt us, and what we
                        don't know isn't "
                    "Has it occurred to you that Russia may have set spies upon you
                        "
                    "Nonsense!"
                    "It isn't as preposterous as you "
                    "Come, old fellow, let's forget Miss Guile," cried
                        Robin, slapping the lieutenant on the shoulder. "Let's
                        think of the real peril, Maud Applegate 
                        Blithers." He held up the ship's paper for Dank to see and
                        then sat back to enjoy his companion's rage.
                    An hour later Dank and Count Quinnox might have been seen seated side by side
                        on the edge of a skylight at the tip-top of the ship's structure,
                        engaged in the closest conversation. There was a troubled look in the old
                        man's eyes and the light of adventure in those of his junior. The
                        sum and substance of their discussion may be given in a brief sentence:
                        Something would have to be done to prevent Robin from falling in love with
                        the fascinating Miss Guile.
                    "He is young enough and stubborn enough to make a fool of himself
                        over her," the Count had said. "I wouldn't blame
                        him, 'pon my soul I wouldn't. She is very attractive ahem!
                        You must be his safeguard, Dank. Go in and do as I suggest. You are a good
                        looking chap and you've nothing to lose. So far as she is
                        concerned, you are quite as well worth while as the fellow known as R.
                        Schmidt. There's no reason why you shouldn't make the
                        remainder of the passage pleasant for her, and at the same time enjoy
                        yourself at nobody's expense."
                    "They know by instinct, confound 'em," lamented
                        Dank; "they know the real article, and you can't fool
                        'em. She knows that he is the high muck-a-muck in this party and
                        she won't even look at me, you take my word for it."
                    "At any rate, you can try, can't you?" said the
                        Count impatiently.
                    
                    "Is it a command, sir?"
                    "It is."
                    "Very well, sir. I shall do my best."
                    "We can't afford to have him losing his head over a pretty
                        er a nobody, perhaps an adventuress, at this stage of the game. I much
                        prefer the impossible Miss Blithers, Dank, to this captivating unknown. At
                        least we know who and what she is, and what she represents. But we owe it to
                        our country and to Dawsbergen to see that he doesn't do anything er
                        foolish. We have five days left of this voyage, Dank. They may be fatal days
                        for him, if you do not come to the rescue."
                    "They may be fatal days for me," said Dank, looking out
                        over the ocean.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII
                    THE LIEUTENANT REPORTS
                    FIVE days later as the Jupiter was
                        discharging passengers at Plymouth, Count Quinnox and Lieutenant Dank stood
                        well forward on the promenade deck watching the operations. The younger man
                        was moody and distrait, an unusual condition for him but one that had been
                        noticeably recurrent during the past two or three days. He pulled at his
                        smart little moustache and looked out upon the world through singularly
                        lack-lustre eyes. Something had gone wrong with him, and it was something
                        that he felt in duty bound to lay before his superior, the grim old Minister
                        of War and hereditary chief of the Castle Guard. Occasionally his sombre
                        gaze shifted to a spot farther down the deck, where a young man and woman
                        leaned upon the rail and surveyed the scene of activity below.
                    "What is on your mind, Dank?" asked the Count abruptly.
                        "Out with it."
                    Dank started. "It's true, then? I do look
                        as much of a fool as I feel, eh?" There was bitterness in his
                        usually cheery voice.
                    "Feel like a fool, eh?" growled the old soldier.
                    "Pretty mess I've made of the business," lamented
                        Dank surlily. "Putting myself up as a contender  against a fellow like Robin, and dreaming
                        that I could win out, even for a minute! Good Lord, what an ass I am! Why
                        we've only made it worse, Count. We've touched him with
                        the spur of rivalry, and what could be more calamitous than that? From being
                        a rather matter-of-fact, indifferent observer, he becomes a bewildering
                        cavalier bent on conquest at any cost. I am swept aside as if I were a
                        parcel of rags. For two days I stood between him and the incomparable Miss
                        Guile. Then he suddenly arouses himself. My cake is dough. I am nobody. My
                        feet get cold, as they say in America, although I don't know why
                        they say it. What has the temperature of one's feet to do with it?
                        See! There they are. They are constantly together, walking, sitting,
                        standing, eating, drinking, reading Eh bien! You have seen
                        with your own eyes. The beautiful Miss Guile has bewitched our Prince, and
                        my labour is not only lost but I myself am lost. Mon
                        dieu!"
                    The Count stared at him in perplexity for a moment. Then a look of surprise
                        came into his eyes, surprise not unmingled with scorn.
                    "You don't mean to say, Dank, that you've fallen
                        in love with her? Oh, you absurd fledgelings. Will you "
                    "Forgive my insolence, Count, but it is forty years since you were a
                        fledgeling. You don't see things as you saw them forty years ago.
                        Permit me to remind you that you are a grandfather."
                    "Your point is well taken, my lad," said the Count,  with a twinkle in his eye. "You
                        can't help being young any more than I can help being old. Youth is
                        perennial, old age a winding-sheet. I am to take it, then, that
                        you've lost your heart to the fair "
                    "Why not?" broke in Dank fiercely. "Why should it
                        appear incredible to you? Is she not the most entrancing creature in all the
                        world? Is she not the most appealing, the most adorable, the most feminine
                        of all her sex? Is it possible that one can be so old that it is impossible
                        for him to feel the charm, the loveliness, the "
                    "For heaven's sake, Dank," said the old man in
                        alarm, "don't gesticulate so wildly. People will think we
                        are quarrelling. Calm yourself, my boy."
                    "You set a task for me and I obey. You urge me to do my duty by
                        Graustark. You tell me I am a handsome dog and irresistible. She will be
                        over-wholmed by my manly beauty, my valour, my soldierly bearing, so say
                        you! And what is the outcome? I I, the vain-glorious, I am wrapped around
                        her little finger so tightly that all the king's horses and all the
                        king's men "
                    "Halt!" commanded his general softly. "You are
                        turning tail like the veriest coward. Right about, face! Would you surrender
                        to a slip of a girl whose only weapons are a pair of innocent blue eyes and
                        a roguish smile? Be a man! Stand by your guns. Outwardly you are the equal
                        of R. Schmidt, whose sole "
                    "That sounds very well, sir, but how can I take up  arms against my Prince? He stands by his guns as you may see, sir, and, dammit all,
                        I'm no traitor. I've just got to stand by 'em
                        with him. That rot about all being fair in love and war is the silliest Oh,
                        well, there's no use whining about it. I'm mad about her,
                        and so is he. You can't "
                    The Count stopped him with a sharp gesture. A look of real concern appeared
                        in his eyes.
                    "Do you believe that he is actually in love with this
                        girl?"
                    "Heels over head," barked the unhappy lieutenant.
                        "I've never seen a worse case."
                    "This is serious more serious than I thought."
                    "It's horrible," declared Dank, but not thinking
                        of the situation from the Count's point of view.
                    "We do not know who or what she is. She may be "
                    "I beg your pardon, sir, but we do know what she is," said
                        the other firmly. "You will not pretend to say that she is not a
                        gentlewoman. She is cultured, refined "
                    "I grant all of that," said the Count. "I am not
                        blind, Dank. But it seems fairly certain that her name is not Guile. We
                        "
                    "Nor is his name Schmidt. That's no argument,
                        sir."
                    "Still we cannot take the chance, my lad. We must put an end to this
                        fond adventure. Robin is our most precious possession. We must not Why do
                        you shake your head?"
                    
                    "We are powerless, sir. If he makes up his mind to marry Miss Guile,
                        he'll do it in spite of anything we can do. That is, provided she
                        is of the same mind."
                    "God defend us, I fear you are right," groaned the old
                        Count. "He has declared himself a hundred times, and he is a wilful
                        lad. I recall the uselessness of the opposition that was set up against his
                        lamented mother when she decided to marry Grenfell Lorry. 'Gad,
                        sir, it was like butting into a stone wall. She said she would and she did. I fear me that Robin has much of his mother in
                        him."
                    "Behold in me the first sacrifice," declaimed Dank, lifting
                        his eyes heavenward.
                    "Oh, you will recover," was the unsympathetic rejoinder.
                        "It is for him that I fear, not for you."
                    "Recover, sir?" in despair. "I fear you misjudge
                        my humble heart "
                    "Bosh! Your heart has been through a dozen accidents of this
                        character, Dank, and it is good for a hundred more. I'll rejoice
                        when this voyage is ended and we have him safe on his way to
                        Edelweiss."
                    "That will not make the slightest difference, sir. If he sets his
                        head to marry her he'll do it if we take him to the North Pole. All
                        Graustark can't stop him, nor old man Blithers either. Besides, he
                        says he isn't going to Edelweiss immediately."
                    "That is news to me."
                    "I thought it would be. He came to the decision  not more than two hours ago. He is determined to spend a
                        couple of weeks at Interlaken."
                    "Interlaken?"
                    "Yes. Miss Guile expects to stop there for a fortnight after leaving
                        Paris."
                    "I must remonstrate with Robin at once," declared the old
                        man. "He is needed in Graustark. He must be made to realise the
                        importance of "
                    "And what are you going to do if he declines to realise anything but
                        the importance of a fortnight in the shadow of the Jungfrau?"
                    "God help me, I don't know, Dank." The
                        Count's brow was moist, and he looked anything but an unconquerable
                        soldier.
                    "I told him we were expected to reach home by the end of next week,
                        and he said that a quiet fortnight in the Alps would make new men of all of
                        us."
                    "Do you mean to say he expects me to dawdle "
                    "More than that, sir. He also expects me to dawdle too. I shall
                        probably shoot myself before the two weeks are over."
                    "I have it! I shall take Mrs. Gaston into my confidence. It is the
                        only hope, I fear. I shall tell her that he is "
                    "No hope there," said Dank mournfully.
                        "Haven't you noticed how keen she is to have them together
                        all the time? She's as wily as a fox. Never misses a chance.
                        Hasn't it occurred to you to wonder why she drags you off on the
                        slightest pretext when  you happen to be in
                        the way? She's done it a hundred times. Always leaving them alone
                        together. My God, how I despise that woman! Not once but twenty times a day
                        she finds an excuse to interfere when I am trying to get in a few words with
                        Miss Guile. She's forever wanting me to show her the engine-room or
                        the Captain's bridge or the wireless office or why, by jove, sir,
                        it was only yesterday that she asked me to come and look at the waves. Said
                        she'd found a splendid place to see them from, just as if the whole
                        damned Atlantic wasn't full of 'em. And isn't she
                        always looking for porpoises on the opposite side of the ship? And how many
                        whales and ice-bergs do you think she's been trying to find in the
                        last five days? No, sir! There's no hope there!"
                    "'Pon my soul!" was all that the poor Minister of
                        War, an adept in strategy, was able to exclaim.
                    The Jupiter disgorged most of her passengers at Cherbourg
                        and the descent upon Paris had scarcely begun when the good ship steamed
                        away for Antwerp, Bremen and Hamburg. She was one of the older vessels in
                        the vast fleet of ships controlled by the American All-Seas and All-Ports
                        Company, and she called wherever there was a port open to trans-Atlantic
                        navigation. She was a single factor in the great monopoly described as the
                        "Billion Dollar Boast." The United States had been slow to
                        recognise the profits of seas that were free, but when she did wake up she
                        proceeded to act as if she owned them and all that therein
                        --y. Her people spoke of the Gulf Stream as
                        "ours";  of the Banks of
                        Newfoundland as "ours" or in some instances as
                        "ourn"; of Liverpool, Hamburg, London, Bremen and other
                        such places as "our European terminals"; and of the
                        various oceans, seas and navigable waters as "a part of the
                        system." Where once the Stars and Stripes were as rare as
                        humming-birds in Baffin's Bay, the flags were now so thick that
                        they resembled Fourth of July decorations on Fifth avenue, and it was almost
                        impossible to cross the Atlantic without dodging a hundred vessels on which
                        Dixie was being played, coming and going. A man from New Hampshire declared,
                        after one of his trips over and back, that he cheered the good old tune so
                        incessantly that his voice failed on the third day out, both ways, and he
                        had to voice his patriotism with a tin horn.
                    Ships of the All-Seas and All-Ports Company fairly stuffed the harbours of
                        the world. America was awake at last wide awake! and the necessity for
                        prodding her was now limited to the task of putting her to sleep long enough
                        to allow other nations a chance to scrape together enough able bodies seamen
                        to man the ships.
                    William W. Blithers was one of the directors of the All-Seas and All-Ports
                        Company. He was the first American to awake.
                    For some unaccountable reason Miss Guile and her companion preferred to
                        travel alone to Paris. They had a private compartment, over which a
                        respectful but adamantine conductor exercised an authority that  irritated R. Schmidt beyond expression. The
                        rest of the train was crowded to its capacity, and here was desirable space
                        going to waste in the section occupied by the selfish Miss Guile. He
                        couldn't understand it in her. Was it, after all, to be put down as
                        a simple steamer encounter? Was she deliberately snubbing him, now that they
                        were on land? Was he, a prince of the royal blood, to be tossed aside by
                        this purse-proud American as if he were the simplest of simpletons? And what
                        did she mean by stationing an officious hireling before her door to order
                        him away when he undertook to pay her a friendly visit? to offer his own and
                        Hobbs' services in case they were needed in Paris. Why should she
                        lock her confounded door anyway, and draw the curtains? There were other
                        whys too numerous to mention, and there wasn't an answer to a
                        single one of them. The whole proceeding was incomprehensible.
                    To begin with, she certainly made no effort to conceal the fact that she was
                        trying to avoid him from the instant the tender drew alongside to take off
                        the passengers. As a matter of fact, she seemed to be making a point of it.
                        And yet, the evening before, she had appeared rather enchanted with the
                        prospect of seeing him at Interlaken.
                    It was not until the boat-train was nearing the environs of Paris that Hobbs
                        threw some light over the situation, with the result that it instantly
                        became darker than ever before. It appears that Miss Guile was met at the
                        landing by a very good-looking young  man who
                        not only escorted her to the train but actually entered it with her, and was
                        even now enjoying the luxury of a private compartment as well as the
                        contents of a large luncheon hamper, to say nothing of an uninterrupted view
                        of something far more inspiring than the scenery.
                    "Frenchman?" inquired Dank listlessly.
                    "American, I should say, sir," said Hobbs, balancing
                        himself in the corridor outside the door and sticking his head inside with
                        more confidence than a traveller usually feels when travelling from
                        Cherbourg to Paris. "But I wouldn't swear to it, sir. I
                        didn't 'ear a word he said, being quite some distance away
                        at the time. Happearances are deceptive, as I've said a great many
                        times. A man may look like an American and still be almost anything else,
                        see wot I mean? On the other hand, a man may look like almost nothing and
                        still be American to his toes. I remember once saying to "
                    "That's all right, Hobbs," broke in R. Schmidt
                        sternly. "We also remember what you said, so don't repeat
                        it. How soon do we get in?"
                    Hobbs cheerfully looked at his watch. "I couldn't say
                        positive, sir, but I should think in about fourteen and a 'alf
                        minutes, or maybe a shade under between fourteen and fourteen and a
                        'alf, sir. As I was saying, he was a most intelligent looking chap,
                        sir, and very 'andsome of face and figger. Between twenty-four and
                        twenty-five, I dare say, Light haired, smooth-faced, quite tall and dressed
                        in dark blue with  a cravat, sir, that looked
                        like cerise but may have been "
                    "For heaven's sake, Hobbs, let up!" cried Robin,
                        throwing up his hands.
                    "Yes, sir; certainly, sir. Did I mention that he wears a straw
                        'at with a crimson band on it? Well, if I didn't, he does.
                        Hincidentally, they seemed greatly pleased to see each other. He kissed her
                        hand, and looked as though he might have gone even farther than that if it
                        'adn't been for the crowd "
                    "That will do!" said Robin sharply, a sudden flush mounting
                        to his cheek.
                    "Very good, sir. Shall I get the bags down for the porters, sir? I
                        beg pardon, sir," to one of the three surly gentlemen who sat
                        facing the travellers from Graustark,"my fault entirely. I
                        don't believe it is damaged, sir. Allow me to "
                    "Thank you," growled the stranger. "I can put it
                        on myself," and he jerked his hat out of Hobbs' hand and
                        set it at a rather forbidding angle above a lowering brow. "Look
                        what you're doing after this, will you?"
                    "Certainly, sir," said Hobbs agreeably.
                        "It's almost impossible to see without eyes in the back of
                        one's head, don't you know. I 'ope "
                    "All right, all right!" snapped the man,
                        glaring balefully. "And let me tell you something else, my man.
                        Don't go about knocking Americans without first taking a look. Just
                        bear that in mind, will you?"
                    
                    "The surest way is to listen," began Hobbs loftily, but,
                        catching a look from his royal master, desisted. He proceeded to get down
                        the hand luggage.
                    At the Gare St. Lazare, Robin had a brief glimpse of Miss Guile as she
                        hurried with the crowd down to the cab enclosure, where her escort, the
                        alert young stranger, put her into a waiting limousine, bundled Mrs. Gaston
                        and Marie in after her, and then dashed away, obviously to see their luggage
                        through the douane.
                    
                    She espied the tall figure of her fellow voyager near the steps and leaned
                        forward to wave a perfunctory farewell to him. The car was creeping out
                        toward the packed thoroughfare. It is possible that she expected him to dash
                        among the chortling machines, at risk of life or limb, for a word or two at
                        parting. If so, she was disappointed. He remained perfectly still, with
                        uplifted hat, a faint smile on his lips and not the slightest sign of
                        annoyance in his face. She smiled securely to herself as she leaned back in
                        the seat, and was satisfied! Curiosity set its demand upon her an instant
                        later, however, and she peered slyly through the little window in the back.
                        He lifted his hat once more and she flushed to her throat as she quickly
                        drew back into the corner. How in the world could he have seen her through
                        that abominable slit in the limousine? And why was he now grinning so
                        broadly?
                    Count Quinnox found him standing there a few minutes later, twirling his
                        stick and smiling with his  eyes. Accompanying
                        the old soldier was a slight, sharp-featured man with keen black eyes and a
                        thin, pointed moustache of grey.
                    This man was Gourou, Chief of Police and Commander of the Tower in Edelweiss,
                        successor to the celebrated Baron Dangloss. After he had greeted his prince,
                        the quiet little man announced that he had reserved for him an apartment at
                        the Bristol.
                    "I am instructed by the Prime Minister, your highness, to urge your
                        immediate return to Edelweiss," he went on, lowering his voice.
                        "The people are disturbed by the reports that have reached us
                        during the past week or two, and Baron Romano is convinced that nothing will
                        serve to subdue the feeling of uneasiness that prevails except your own
                        declaration in person that these reports are untrue."
                    "I shall telegraph at once to Baron Romano that it is all
                        poppy-cock," said Robin easily. "I refer, of course, to
                        the reported engagement. I am not going to marry Miss Blithers and
                        that's all there is to be said. You may see to it, baron, that a
                        statement is issued to all of the Paris newspapers to-day, and to the
                        correspondents for all the great papers in Europe and America. I have
                        prepared this statement, under my own signature, and it is to be the last
                        word in the matter. It is in my pocket at this instant. You shall have it
                        when we reach the hotel And that reminds me of another thing. I'm
                        sorry that I shall have to ask you to countermand the reservation for rooms
                        at the hotel you mention. I have already reserved  rooms at the Ritz, by wireless. We shall stop there. Where is
                        Dank?"
                    "The Ritz is hardly the place for "
                    But Robin clapped him on the back and favoured him with the good-natured,
                        boyish smile that mastered even the fiercest of his counsellors, and the
                        Minister of Police, being an astute man, heaved a deep sigh of resignation.
                    "Dank is looking after the trunks, highness, and Hobbs is coming
                        along with the hand luggage," he said. "The Ritz, you say?
                        Then I shall have to instruct Lieutenant Dank to send the luggage there
                        instead of to the Bristol. Pardon, your highness." He was off like
                        a flash.
                    Count Quinnox was gnawing his moustache. "See here, Robin,"
                        he said, laying his hand on the young man's shoulder, "you
                        are in Paris now and not on board a ship at sea. Miss Guile is a beautiful,
                        charming, highly estimable young woman, and, I might as well say it straight
                        out to your face, you ought not to subject her to the notoriety that is
                        bound to follow if the newspapers learn that she is playing around Paris, no
                        matter how innocently, with a prince whom "
                    "Just a moment, Count," interrupted Robin, a cold light in
                        his now unsmiling eyes. "You are getting a little ahead of the
                        game. Miss Guile is not going to the Ritz, nor do I expect her to play
                        around Paris with me. As a matter of fact, she refused to tell me where she
                        is to stop while here, and I am uncomfortably certain that I shall not see
                        her unless by  chance. On the other hand, I
                        may as well be perfectly frank with you and say it straight out to your face that I am going to try to find her if possible,
                        but I am not mean enough to employ the methods common to such enterprises. I
                        could have followed her car in another when she left here a few minutes ago;
                        I could manage in a dozen ways to run her to earth, as the detectives do in
                        the books, but I'd be ashamed to look her in the face if I did any
                        of these things. I shall take a gentleman's chance, my dear Count,
                        and trust to luck and the generosity of fate. You may be sure that I shall
                        not annoy Miss Guile, and you may be equally sure that she "
                    "I beg your pardon, Robin, but I did not employ, the word
                        annoy," protested the Count.
                    " that she takes me for a gentleman if not for a prince,"
                        went on Robin, deliberately completing the sentence before he smiled his
                        forgiveness upon the old man. "I selected the Ritz because all rich
                        Americans go there, I'm told. I'm taking a
                        chance."
                    Quinnox had an obstinate strain in his make-up. He continued: "There
                        is another side to the case, my boy. As a gentleman, you cannot allow this
                        lovely girl to er well, to fall in love with you. That would be cruel,
                        wantonly cruel. And it is just the thing that is bound to happen if you go
                        on with "
                    "My dear Count, you forget that I am only R. Schmidt to her and but
                        one of perhaps a hundred young men who have placed her in the same perilous
                        position. Moreover, it's the other way 'round, sir.  It is I who take the risk, not Miss Guile. I
                        regret to say, sir, that if there is to be any falling in love, I am the one
                        who is most likely to fall, and to fall hard. You assume that Miss Guile is
                        heart-whole and fancy free. 'Gad, I wish that I could be sure of
                        it!" He spoke with such fervour that the Count was indeed dismayed.
                    "Robin, my lad, I beg of you to consider the consequences that
                        "
                    "There's no use discussing it, old friend. Trust to luck.
                        There is a bully good chance that she will send me about my business when
                        the time comes and then the salvation of Graustark will be
                        assured." He said it lightly but there was a dark look in his eyes
                        that belied the jaunty words.
                    "Am I to understand that you intend to to ask her to marry
                        you?" demanded the Count, profoundly troubled. "Remember,
                        boy, that you are the Prince of Graustark, that you "
                    "But I'm not going to ask her to marry the Prince of
                        Graustark. I'm going to ask her to marry R. Schmidt," said
                        Robin composedly.
                    "God defend us, Robin, I I "
                    "God has all he can do to defend us from William W. Blithers, Count.
                        Don't ask too much of him. What kind of a nation are we if we
                        can't get along without asking God to defend us every time we see
                        trouble ahead? And do you suppose he is going to defend us against a slip of
                        a girl "
                    
                    "Enough! Enough!" cried the Count, compressing his lips and
                        glaring straight ahead.
                    "That's the way to talk," cried Robin
                        enthusiastically. "By the way, I hope Dank is clever enough to find
                        out who that young fellow is while they are clearing the luggage in there. I
                        had a good look at him just now. He is all that Hobbs describes and a little
                        more. He is a hustler."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII
                    THE RED LETTER B
                    IN the Baron's room at the Ritz late that night
                        there was held a secret conference. Two shadowy figures stole down the
                        corridor at midnight and were admitted to the room, while Prince Robin slept
                        soundly in his remote four-poster and dreamed of something that brought a
                        gentle smile to his lips.
                    The three conspirators were of the same mind: it was clear that something
                        must be done. But what? That was the question. Gourou declared that the
                        people were very much disturbed over the trick the great capitalist had
                        played upon the cabinet; there were sullen threats of a revolt if the
                        government insisted on the deposit of bonds as required by the agreement.
                        More than that, there were open declarations that the daughter of Mr.
                        Blithers would never be permitted to occupy the throne of Graustark. Deeply
                        as his subjects loved the young Prince, they would force him to abdicate
                        rather than submit to the desecration of a throne that had never been
                        dishonoured. They would accept William W. Blithers' money, but they
                        would have none of William W. Blithers' daughter. That was more
                        than could be expected of any self-respecting people! According to the
                        Minister of Police, the name of Blithers was already a common synonym for
                        affliction and frequently employed in supposing a malediction.  It signified all that was mean, treacherous,
                        scurrilous. He was spoken of through clenched teeth as "the blood
                        sucker." Children were ominously reproved by the threatening use of
                        the word Blithers. "Blithers will get you if you don't
                        wash your face," and all that sort of thing.
                    There was talk in some circles of demanding the resignation of the cabinet,
                        but even the pessimistic Gourou admitted that it was idle talk and would
                        come to nothing if the menacing shadow of Maud Applegate Blithers could be
                        banished from the vicinity of the throne. Graustarkians would abide by the
                        compact made by their leading men and would be content to regard Mr.
                        Blithers as a bona fide creditor. They would pay him in full when the loan
                        matured, even though they were compelled to sacrifice their houses in order
                        to accomplish that end. But, like all the rest of the world, they saw
                        through the rich American's scheme.
                    The world knew, and Graustark knew, just what Mr. Blithers was after, and the
                        worst of it all was that Mr. Blithers also knew, which was more to the
                        point. But, said Baron Gourou, Graustark knew something that neither the
                        world nor Mr. Blithers knew, and that was its own mind. Never, said he,
                        would Maud Applegate be recognised as the Princess of Graustark, not if she
                        lived for a thousand years and married Robin as many times as she had hairs
                        on her head. At least, he amended, that was the way every one felt about it
                        at present.
                    
                    The afternoon papers had published the brief statement prepared by Robin in
                        the seclusion of his stateroom on board the Jupiter
                        immediately after a most enjoyable hour with Miss Guile. It was a curt and
                        extremely positive denial of the rumoured engagement, with the additional
                        information that he never had seen Miss Blithers and was more or less
                        certain that she never had set eyes on him.
                    A rather staggering co-incidence appeared with the published report that Miss
                        Blithers herself was supposed to be somewhere in Europe, word having been
                        received that day from sources in London that she had sailed from New York
                        under an assumed name. The imaginative French journals put two and two
                        together and dwelt upon the possibility that the two young people who had
                        never seen each other might have crossed the Atlantic on the same steamer,
                        seeing each other frequently and yet remaining entirely in the dark, so to
                        speak. Inspired writers began to weave a romance out of the probabilities.
                    On one point Robin was adamantine. He refused positively to have his identity
                        disclosed at this time, and Gourou had to say to the newspapers that the
                        Prince was even then on his way to Vienna, hurrying homeward as fast as
                        steel cars could carry him. He admitted that the young man had arrived on
                        the Jupiter that morning, having remained in the closest
                        seclusion all the way across the Atlantic.
                    This equivocation necessitated the most cautious rearrangement of plans on
                        the part of the Baron. He  was required to act
                        as though he had no acquaintance with either of the three travellers
                        stopping at the Ritz, although for obvious reasons he took up a temporary
                        abode there himself. Moreover, he had to telegraph the Prime Minister in
                        Edelweiss that the Prince was not to be budged, and would in all likelihood
                        postpone his return to the capitol. All of which stamped the honest Baron as
                        a most prodigious liar, if one stops to think of what he said to the
                        reporters.
                    The newspapers also printed a definite bit of news in the shape of a despatch
                        from New York to the effect that Mr. and Mrs. William W. Blithers were
                        sailing for Europe on the ensuing day, bound for Graustark!
                    However, the chief and present concern of the three loyal gentlemen in
                        midnight conclave was not centred in the trouble that Mr. Blithers had
                        started, but in the more desperate situation created by Miss Guile. She was
                        the peril that now confronted them, and she was indeed a peril. Quinnox and
                        Dank explained the situation to the Minister of Police, and the Minister of
                        Police admitted that the deuce was to pay.
                    "There is but one way out of it," said he, speaking
                        officially, "and that is the simplest one I know of."
                    "Assassination, I suppose," said Dank scornfully.
                    "It rests with me, gentlemen," said the Baron, ignoring the
                        lieutenant's remark, "to find Miss Guile and take her into
                        my confidence in respect "
                    "No use," said Dank, and, to his surprise, the Count
                        repeated the words after him.
                    
                    "Miss Guile is a lady, Baron," said the latter gloomily.
                        "You cannot go to her with a command to clear out, keep her hands
                        off, or any such thing. She would be justified in having you kicked out of
                        the house. We must not annoy Miss Guile. That is quite out of the
                        question."
                    "By jove!" exclaimed Dank, so loudly that his companions
                        actually jumped in their seats. They looked at him in amazement, the Count
                        with something akin to apprehension in his eyes. Had the fellow lost his
                        mind over the girl? Before they could ask what he meant by shouting at the
                        top of his voice, he repeated the ejaculation, but less explosively. His
                        eyes were bulging and his mouth remained agape.
                    "What ails you, Dank?" demanded the Baron, removing his
                        eyes from the young man's face long enough to glance fearfully at
                        the transom.
                    "I've I've got it!" cried the soldier,
                        and then sank back in his chair, quite out of breath. The Baron got up and
                        took a peep into the hallway, and then carefully locked the door.
                        "What are you locking the door for?" demanded Dank,
                        sitting up suddenly. "It's only a theory that
                        I've got but it is wonderful. Absolutely staggering."
                    "Oh!" said Gourou, but he did not unlock the door.
                        "A theory, eh?" He came back and stood facing the young
                        man.
                    "Count," began Dank excitedly, "you remember the
                        big red letter B on all of her trunks, don't you? Hobbs is positive
                        he "
                    
                    Count Quinnox sprang to his feet and banged the table with his fist.
                    "By jove!" he shouted, suddenly comprehending.
                    "The letter B?" queried Gourou, perplexed.
                    "The newspapers say that she sailed from New York under an assumed
                        name," went on Dank, thrilled by his own amazing cleverness.
                        "There you are! Plain as day. The letter B explains everything. Now
                        we know who Miss Guile really is. She's "
                    "Maud!" exclaimed Quinnox, sinking back into his chair.
                    "Miss Blithers!" cried Gourou, divining at last.
                        "By jove!" And thus was the jovian circle completed.
                    It was two o'clock before the three gentlemen separated and retired
                        to rest, each fully convinced that the situation was even more complicated
                        than before, for in view of this new and most convincing revelation there
                        now could be no adequate defence against the alluring Miss Guile.
                    Robin was informed bright and early the next morning. In fact, he was still
                        in his pajamas when the news was carried to him by the exhausted Dank, who
                        had spent five hours in bed but none in slumber. Never in all his ardent
                        career had the smart lieutenant been so bitterly afflicted with
                        love-sickness as now.
                    "I don't believe a word of it," said the Prince
                        promptly. "You've been dreaming, old chap."
                    "That letter B isn't a dream, is it?"
                    "No, it isn't," said Robin, and instantly sat up
                             in bed, his face very serious.
                        "If she should turn out to be Miss Blithers, I've cooked
                        my goose to a crisp. Good Lord, when I think of some of the things I said to
                        her about the Blithers family! But wait! If she is Miss Blithers do you
                        suppose she'd sit calmly by and hear the family ridiculed? No, sir!
                        She would have taken my head off like a flash. She "
                    "I've no doubt she regarded the situation as extremely
                        humorous," said Dank, "and laughed herself almost sick
                        over the way she was fooling you."
                    "That might sound reasonable enough, Dank, if she had known who I
                        was. But where was the fun in fooling an utter outsider like R. Schmidt? It
                        doesn't hold together."
                    "Americans have an amazing notion of humour, I am reliably informed.
                        They appear to be able to see a joke under the most distressing
                        circumstances. I'll stake my head that she is Miss
                        Blithers."
                    "I can't imagine anything more terrible," groaned
                        Robin, lying down flat again and staring at the ceiling.
                    "I shouldn't call her terrible," protested Dank,
                        rather stiffly.
                    "I refer to the situation, Dank, the mess, in other words. It is a mess, isn't it?"
                    "I suppose you'll see nothing more of her, your
                        highness," remarked Dank, a sly hope struggling in his breast.
                    "You'd better put it the other way. She'll see
                        nothing more of me," lugubriously.
                    
                    "I mean to say, sir, you can't go on with it, can
                        you?"
                    "Go on with what?"
                    "The er you know," floundered Dank.
                    "If there is really anything to go on with, Dank, I'll go
                        on with it, believe me."
                    The lieutenant stared. "But if she should be Miss
                        Blithers, what then?"
                    "It might simplify matters tremendously," said Robin, but
                        not at all confidently. "I think I'll get up, Dank, if you
                        don't mind. Call Hobbs, will you? And, I say, won't you
                        have breakfast up here with me?"
                    "I had quite overlooked breakfast, 'pon my soul, I
                        had," said Dank, a look of pain in his face. "No wonder I
                        have a headache, going without my coffee so long."
                    Later on, while they were breakfasting in Robin's sitting room,
                        Hobbs brought in the morning newspapers. He laid one of them before the
                        Prince, and jabbed his forefinger upon a glaring headline.
                    "I beg pardon, sir; I didn't mean to get it into the
                        butter. Very awkward, I'm sure. Hi, garon! Fresh
                        butter 'ere, and lively about it, too. Buerre!
                        That's the word buttah."
                    Robin and Dank were staring at the headline as if fascinated. Having
                        successfully managed the butter, Hobbs at once restored his attention to the
                        headline, reading it aloud, albeit both of the young men were  capable of reading French at sight. He
                        translated with great profundity.
                    " 'Miss Blithers Denies Report. Signed Statement
                        Mysteriously Received. American Heiress not to wed Prince of
                        Graustark.' Shall I read the harticle, sir?"
                    Robin snatched up the paper and read aloud for himself. Hobbs merely wiped a
                        bit of butter from his finger and listened attentively.
                    The following card appeared at the head of the column, and was supplemented
                        by a complete rsum of the Blithers-Graustark muddle:
                    "Miss Blithers desires to correct an erroneous report that has
                        appeared in the newspapers. She is not engaged to be married to the Prince
                        of Graustark, nor is there even the remotest probability that such will ever
                        be the case. Miss Blithers regrets that she has not the honour of Prince
                        Robin's acquaintance, and the Prince has specifically stated in the
                        public prints that he does not know her by sight. The statements of the two
                        persons most vitally affected by this disturbing rumour should be taken as
                        final. Sufficient pain and annoyance already has been caused by the
                        malicious and utterly groundless report." The name of Maud
                        Applegate Blithers was appended to the statement, and it was dated Paris,
                        August 29.
                    Thereafter followed a lengthy description of the futile search for the young
                        lady in Paris, and an interview with the local representatives of Mr.
                        Blithers, all of whom declared that the signature was genuine,  but refused to commit themselves further
                        without consulting their employer. They could throw no light upon the
                        situation, even going so far as to declare that they were unaware of the
                        presence of Miss Blithers in Paris.
                    It appears that the signed statement was left in the counting-rooms of the
                        various newspapers by a heavily veiled lady at an hour agreed upon as
                        "about ten o'clock." There was absolutely no clue
                        to the identity of this woman.
                    Instead of following the suggestion of Miss Blithers that
                        "sufficient pain and annoyance already had been caused,"
                        the journalists proceeded to increase the agony by venturing the hope that
                        fresh developments would materialise before the day was done.
                    "Well, she appears to be here," said Robin, as he laid down
                        the last of the three journals and stared at Dank as if expecting hope from
                        that most unreliable source.
                    "I suppose you will now admit that I am right about the letter
                        B," said Dank sullenly.
                    "When I see Miss Guile I shall ask point blank if she is Maud
                        Applegate, Dank, and if she says she isn't, I'll take her
                        word for it," said Robin.
                    "And if she says she is?"
                    "Well," said the Prince, ruefully, "I'll
                        still take her word for it."
                    "And then?"
                    "Then I shall be equally frank and tell her that I  am Robin of Graustark. That will put us all
                        square again, and we'll see what comes of it in the end."
                    "You don't mean to say you'll you'll
                        continue as you were?" gasped Dank.
                    "That depends entirely on Miss Guile, Boske."
                    "But you wouldn't dare to marry Maud Applegate Blithers,
                        sir. You would be driven out of Graustark and "
                    "I think that would depend a good deal on Miss Guile, too, old
                        chap," said Robin coolly.
                    Dank swallowed very hard. "I want to be loyal to you, your
                        highness," he said as if he did not think it would be possible to
                        remain so.
                    "I shall count on you, Dank," said Robin earnestly.
                    "But " began the lieutenant, and then stopped short.
                    "Let me finish it for you. You don't feel as though you
                        could be loyal to Miss Blithers, is that it?"
                    "I think that would depend on Miss Blithers," said Dank,
                        and then begged to be excused. He went out of the room rather hurriedly.
                    "Well, Hobbs," said Robin, after his astonishment had
                        abated, "what do you think of it?"
                    "I think he's in love with her, sir," said Hobbs
                        promptly.
                    "Good Lord! with with Miss Guile?"
                    "Precisely so, sir."
                    "Well, I'll be darned!" said the
                        American half of Prince Robin with great fervour.
                    "Tut, tut, sir," reproved Hobbs, who, as has been  said before, was a privileged character by
                        virtue of long service and his previous calling as a Cook's
                        interpreter. "Are you going out, sir?"
                    "Yes. I'm going out to search the highways and by-ways for
                        Bedelia," said Robin, a gay light in his eyes. "By the
                        way, did you, by any chance, learn the name of the 'andsome young
                        gent as went away with 'er, 'Obbs?"
                    "I did not, sir. I stood at his helbow for quite some time at the
                        Gare St. Lazare and the only words he spoke that I could hear distinctly was
                        'wot the devil do you mean, me man? Ain't there room
                        enough for you here without standing on my toes like that? Move
                        hover.' Only, of course, sir, he used the haspirates after a
                        fashion of his own. The haitches are mine, sir."
                    "Is he an American?"
                    "It's difficult to say, sir. He may be from Boston, but you
                        never can tell, sir."
                    "Do you know Boston, Hobbs?" inquired the Prince, adjusting
                        his tie before the mirror.
                    "Not to speak it, sir," said Hobbs.
                    The day was warm and clear, and Paris was gleaming. Robin stretched his long
                        legs in a brisk walk across the Place Vendome and up the Rue de la Paix to
                        the Boulevard. Here he hesitated and then retraced his steps slowly down the
                        street of diamonds, for he suspected Miss Guile of being interested in
                        things that were costly. Suddenly inspired, he made his way to the Place de
                        la Concorde and settled himself  on one of the
                        seats near the entrance to the Champs Elysees. It was his shrewd argument
                        that if she planned a ride on that exquisite morning it naturally would be
                        along the great avenue, and in that event he might reasonably hope to catch
                        her coming or going. A man came up and took a seat beside him.
                    "Good morning, Mr. Schmidt," said the newcomer, and Robin
                        somewhat gruffly demanded what the deuce he meant by following him.
                        "I have some interesting news," said Baron Gourou quietly,
                        removing his hat to wipe a damp brow. He also took the time to recover his
                        breath after some rather sharp dodging of automobiles in order to attain his
                        present position of security. Even a Minister of Police has to step lively
                        in Paris.
                    "From home?" asked Robin carelessly.
                    "Indirectly. It comes through Berlin. Our special agent there wires
                        me that the offices of Mr. Blithers in that city have received instructions
                        from him to send engineers to Edelweiss for the purpose of estimating the
                        cost of remodelling and rebuilding the castle, in other words to restore it
                        to its condition prior to the Marlanx rebellion fifteen years ago."
                    There was a tantalising smile on the Baron's face as he watched the
                        changing expressions in that of his Prince.
                    "Are you in earnest?" demanded Robin, a bright red spot
                        appearing in each cheek. The Baron nodded his head. "Well,
                        he's got a lot of nerve!"
                    
                    "I shudder when I think of what is likely to happen to those
                        architects when they begin snooping around the castle," said Gourou
                        drily. "By the way, have you seen Miss Guile this
                        morning?"
                    Robin's cheeks were now completely suffused. "Certainly
                        not."
                    "She was in the Rue de la Paix half an hour ago. I thought you might
                        "
                    "You saw her, Baron?"
                    "Yes, highness, and it may interest you to know that she saw
                        you."
                    "The deuce you say! But how do you know that it was Miss Guile.
                        You've no means of knowing."
                    "It is a part of my profession to recognise people from given
                        descriptions. In this case, however, the identification was rendered quite
                        simple by the actions of the young lady herself. She happened to emerge from
                        a shop just as you were passing and I've never seen any one,
                        criminal or otherwise, seek cover as quickly as she did. She darted back
                        into the shop like one pursued by the devil. Naturally I hung around for a
                        few minutes to see the rest of the play. Presently she peered forth, looked
                        stealthily up and down the street, and then dashed across the pavement to a
                        waiting taxi-metre. It affords me pleasure to inform your highness that I
                        took the number of the machine." He glanced at his cuff-band.
                    "Where did she go from the Rue de la Paix?" asked Robin
                        impatiently.
                    "To the Ritz. I was there almost as soon as she.  She handed an envelope containing a letter, I
                        fancy to the carriage man and drove away in the direction of the Place de
                        l'Opera. I have a sly notion, my Prince, that you will find a note
                        awaiting you on your return to the hotel. Ah, you appear to be in haste, my
                        young hunter."
                    "I am in haste. If you expect to keep alongside, Baron,
                        you'll have to run I'm afraid," cried the Prince,
                        and was instantly in his seven-league boots.
                    There was a note in Robin's rooms when he reached the hotel. It was
                        not the delicately perfumed article that usually is despatched by fictional
                        heroines but a rather business-like envelope bearing the well-known words
                        "The New York Herald" in one corner and the name
                        "R. Schmidt, Hotel Ritz," in firm but angular scrawl
                        across its face. As Robin ripped it open with his finger, Baron Gourou
                        entered the room, but not without giving vent to a slight cough in the way
                        of an announcement.
                    "You forget, highness, that I am a short man and not possessed of
                        legs that travel by yards instead of feet," he panted.
                        "Forgive me for lagging behind. I did my best to keep up with
                        you."
                    Robin stared at his visitor haughtily for a moment and then broke into a
                        good-humoured laugh.
                    "Won't you sit down, Baron? I'll be at liberty in
                        a minute or two," he said, and coolly proceeded to scan the brief
                        message from Miss Guile.
                    "Well," said Gourou, as the young man replaced the letter
                        in the envelope and stuck it into his pocket.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV
                    THE CAT IS AWAY
                    ROBIN'S face was glowing with excitement. He put
                        his hands in his trousers pockets and nervously jingled the coins therein,
                        all the while regarding his Minister of Police with speculative eyes. Then
                        he turned to the window and continued to stare down into the Place Vendome
                        for several minutes, obviously turning something over in his mind before
                        coming to a decision. The Baron waited. None knew better than he how to
                        wait. He realised that a great deal hung upon the next few sentences to be
                        uttered in that room, and yet he could be patient.
                    At last Robin faced him, but without speaking. An instant later he
                        impulsively withdrew the letter from his pocket and held it out to the
                        Baron, who strode across the room and took it from his hand. Without a word,
                        he extracted the single sheet of paper and read what was written thereon.
                    "I gather from the nature of the invitation that you are expected to
                        enjoy stolen fruit, if I may be so bold as to put it in just that
                        way," said he grimly. "Apparently Miss Guile finds the
                        presence of a duenna unnecessarily wise."
                    "There's no harm in a quiet little excursion such as she
                        suggests, Baron," said Robin, defensively.
                    
                    "You forget that I have seen the beautiful Miss Guile,"
                        said Gourou drily. "I take it, then, that you approve of the young
                        lady's scheme."
                    "Scheme sounds rather sinister, doesn't it?"
                    "Trick, if it please you more than the other. Moreover, I cannot say
                        that she suggests the quiet little excursion. It occurs to
                        me that she commands, your highness." He held the missive to the
                        light and read, a tender irony in his voice: " 'My motor
                        will call for you at three this afternoon, and we will run out to St. Cloud
                        for tea; at the Pavillon Bleu. Mrs. Gaston is spending the day with
                        relatives at Champigny, and we may as well be mice under the circumstances.
                        If you have another engagement, pray do not let it interfere with the
                        pleasure I am seeking.' Nothing could be more exacting, my dear
                        Prince. She signs herself 'B. Guile,' and I am sure she is
                        magnificently beguiling, if you will pardon the play on words."
                    "You wouldn't adopt that tone of suspicion if you knew Miss
                        Guile," said Robin stiffly. "I am sure nothing could be
                        more frank and above-board than her manner of treating the "
                    "And nothing so cock-sure and confident," put in the Baron.
                        "It would serve her right if you ignored the letter
                        altogether."
                    "If I were as old as you, Baron, I haven't the least doubt
                        that I should do so," said Robin coolly. "And by the same
                        token, if you were as young as I, you'd  do precisely the thing that I intend to do. I'm going
                        to St. Cloud with her."
                    "Oh, I haven't been in doubt about that for an
                        instant," said Gourou. "At your age I greatly favoured the
                        clandestine. You will not pretend to assume that this is not a clandestine
                        excursion."
                    "It's a jolly little adventure," was all that
                        Robin could say, in his youthfulness.
                    The Baron was thoughtful. "There is something behind this
                        extraordinary behaviour on the part of a lady generally accredited with
                        sense and refinement," said he after a moment. "I think I
                        have it, too. She is deliberately putting you to a rather severe
                        test."
                    "Test? What do you mean?"
                    "She is trying you out, sir. Miss Guile, or possibly Miss Blithers,
                        is taking a genuine risk in order to determine whether you are a real
                        gentleman or only a make-believe. She is taking a chance with you. You may
                        call it a jolly little adventure, but I call it the acid test. Young women
                        of good breeding and refinement do not plan such adventures with casual,
                        ship-board acquaintances. She intends to find out what,
                        not who, you are. I must say she's exceedingly
                        clever and courageous."
                    Robin laughed. "Thank you, Baron. Forewarned is forearmed. I shall
                        remain a gentleman at any cost."
                    "She is so shrewd and resourceful that I am almost  convinced she can be no other than the
                        daughter of the amazing Mr. Blithers. I believe he achieved most of his
                        success through sheer impudence, though it is commonly described as
                        daring."
                    "In any case, Baron, I shall make it a point to find out whether she
                        is the lady who defies the amazing Mr. Blithers, and goes into print about
                        it."
                    "She has merely denied that she is engaged to the Prince of
                        Graustark. Pray do not come back to us with the news that she is engaged to
                        R. Schmidt," said Gourou significantly.
                    Robin smiled reflectively. "That would make a
                        jolly adventure of it, wouldn't it?"
                    At three o'clock, a big limousine swung under the porte cochere at
                        the Ritz and a nimble footman hopped down and entered the hotel. Robin was
                        waiting just inside the doors. He recognised the car as the one that had
                        taken Miss Guile away from the Gare St. Lazare, and stepped forward
                        instantly to intercept the man.
                    "For Mr. Schmidt?" he inquired.
                    "Oui, M'sieur."
                    Thrilled by a pleasurable sense of excitement, the Prince of Graustark
                        entered the car. He was quick to observe that the curtains in the side
                        windows were partially drawn across the glass. The fact that she elected to
                        journey to the country in a limousine on this hot day did not strike him as
                        odd, for he knew that the comfort loving French people prefer the closed
                        vehicle to the wind-inviting, dust-gathering touring  body of the Americans and British. He observed the single
                        letter L in gold in the panel of the door, and made mental note of the smart
                        livery of the two men on the front seat.
                    A delicate perfume lingered in the car, convincing proof that Miss Guile had
                        left it but a few minutes before its arrival at the Ritz. As a matter of
                        fact, she was nearer than he thought, for the car whirled into the Rue de la
                        Paix and stopped at the curb not more than a hundred yards from the Place
                        Vendome.
                    Once more the nimble footman hopped down and threw open the door. A slender,
                        swift-moving figure in a blue linen gown and a wide hat from which sprung
                        two gorgeous blue plumes, emerged from the door of a diamond
                        merchant's shop, and, before Robin could move from his corner,
                        popped into the car and sat down beside him with a nervous little laugh on
                        her lips red lips that showed rose-like and tempting behind a thick chiffon
                        veil, obviously donned for an excellent reason. The exquisite features of
                        Miss Guile were barely distinguishable beneath the surface of this filmy
                        barrier. The door closed sharply and, almost before the Prince had recovered
                        from his surprise, the car glided off in the direction of the Place de
                        l'Opera.
                    "Isn't it just like an elopement?" cried Miss
                        Guile, and it was quite plain to him that she was vastly pleased with the
                        sprightly introduction to the adventure. Her voice trembled slightly and she
                        sat up very straight in the wide, comfortable seat.
                    
                    "Is it really you?" cried Robin, and he was surprised to
                        find that his own voice trembled.
                    "Oh," she said, with a sudden diffidence, "how do
                        you do? What must you think of me, bouncing in like that and never once
                        speaking to you?"
                    "If I were to tell you what I think of you, you'd bounce
                        right out again without speaking to me," said he, smiling.
                        "How do you do?" He extended his hand, but it was ignored.
                        She sank back into the corner and looked at him for a moment as if uncertain
                        what to say or do next. The shadowy red lips were smiling and the big dark
                        eyes were eloquent, even through the screen.
                    "I may as well tell you at the outset, Mr. Schmidt, that
                        I've never never done a thing like this
                        before," she said, an uneasy note in her voice.
                    "I am quite sure of that," said he, "and therefore
                        confess to a vast wealth of satisfaction."
                    "What do you think of me?"
                    "I think that you are frightened almost out of your boots,"
                        said he boldly.
                    "No, I'm not," said she resolutely. "I am
                        only conscious of feeling extremely foolish."
                    "I shouldn't feel that way about stealing off for a cup of
                        tea," said he. "It's all quite regular, you know,
                        and is frequently done in the very best circles when the cat's
                        away."
                    "You see, I couldn't quite scrape up the courage to go
                        directly to the hotel for you," she said. "I know several
                        people who are stopping there and I  I well,
                        you won't think I'm a dreadful person, will you?"
                    "Not at all," he declared promptly. Then he resolved to put
                        one of the questions he had made up his mind to ask at the first
                        opportunity. "Do you mind telling me why you abandoned me so
                        completely, so heartlessly on the day we landed?"
                    "Because there was no reason why I should act otherwise, Mr.
                        Schmidt," she said, the tremor gone from her voice.
                    "And yet you take me to St. Cloud for tea," he said
                        pointedly.
                    "Ah, but no one is to know of this," she cried warmly.
                        "This is a secret, a very secret adventure."
                    He could not help staring. "And that is just why I am mystified. Why
                        is to-day so different from yesterday?"
                    "It isn't," she said. "Doesn't
                        all this prove it?"
                    His face fell. "Don't you want to be seen with me, Miss
                        Guile? Am I not "
                    "Wait! Will you not be satisfied with things as they are and refrain
                        from asking unnecessary questions?"
                    "I shall have to be satisfied," said he ruefully.
                    "I am sorry I said that, Mr. Schmidt," she cried, contrite
                        at once. "There is absolutely no reason why I should not be seen
                        with you. But won't you be appeased when I say that I wanted to be
                        with you alone to-day?"
                    He suddenly remembered the Baron's shrewd conjecture  and let the opportunity to say something
                        banal go by without a word. Perhaps it was a test, after all. He merely
                        replied that she was paying him a greater compliment than he deserved.
                    "There are many things I want to speak about, Mr. Schmidt, and and
                        you know how impossible it is to to get a moment to one's self when
                        one is being watched like a child, as I am being watched over by dear Mrs.
                        Gaston. She is my shield and armour, my lovely one-headed dragon. I placed
                        myself in her care and well, she is a very dependable person. You will understand, won't you?"
                    "Pray do not distress yourself, Miss Guile," he protested.
                        "The last word is spoken. I am too happy to spoil the day by
                        doubting its integrity. Besides, I believe I know you better than you think
                        I do."
                    He expected her to reveal some sign of dismay, but she was suddenly on guard.
                    "Then you will not mind my eccentricities," she said
                        calmly, "and we shall have a very nice drive, some tea and a lark
                        in place of the more delectable birds prescribed by the chef at the Pavillon
                        Bleu."
                    As the car turned into the Boulevard des Capucines Robin suppressed an
                        exclamation of annoyance on beholding Baron Gourou and Dank standing on the
                        curb almost within arm's length of the car as it passed. The former
                        was peering rather intently at the two men on the front seat, and evinced
                        little or no interest in the occupants of the tonneau.
                    
                    "Wasn't that your friend Mr. Dank?" inquired Miss
                        Guile with interest. He felt that she was chiding him.
                    "Yes," said he, and then turned for another look at his
                        compatriots. Gourou was jotting something down on his cuff-band. The Prince
                        mentally promised him something for his pains. "But let us leave
                        dull care behind," he went on gaily.
                    "He isn't at all dull," said she.
                    "But he is a care," said he. "He
                        is always losing his heart, Miss Guile."
                    "And picking up some one else's, I fancy," said
                        she.
                    "By the way, who was the good-looking chap that came to Cherbourg to
                        meet you?"
                    "A very old friend, Mr. Schmidt. I've known him since I was
                        that high." (That high was on a line with her knee.)
                    "Attractive fellow," was his comment.
                    "Do you think so?" she inquired innocently, and he thought
                        she over-played it a little. He was conscious of an odd sense of
                        disappointment in her. "Have you never been out to St. Cloud? No? I
                        never go there without feeling a terrible pity for those poor prodigals who
                        stood beside its funeral pyre and saw their folly stripped down to the
                        starkest of skeletons while they waited. The day of glory is short, Mr.
                        Schmidt, and the night that follows is bitterly long. They say possession is
                        nine points of the law, but what do nine points mean to the lawless? The
                        rich man  of to-day may be the beggar of
                        to-morrow, and the rich man's sons and daughters may be serving the
                        beggars of yesterday. I have been told that in the lower cast side of New
                        York City there are men and women who were once princes and princesses,
                        counts and countesses, dukes and duchesses. Why doesn't some one
                        write a novel about the royalty that hides its beggary in the slums of that
                        great city?"
                    "What's this? Epigrams and philosophy, Miss
                        Guile?" he exclaimed wonderingly. "You amaze me. What are
                        you trying to convey? That some day you may be serving yesterday's
                        beggar?"
                    "Who knows!" she said cryptically. "I am not a
                        philosopher, and I'm sorry about the epigrams. I loathe people who
                        make use of them. They are a cheap substitution for wisdom. Do you take
                        sugar in your tea?" It was her way of abandoning the topic, but he
                        looked his perplexity. "I thought I'd ask now, just for
                        the sake of testing my memory later on." She was laughing.
                    "Two lumps and cream," he said. "Won't
                        you be good enough to take off that veil? It seriously obstructs the
                        view."
                    She complacently shook her head. "It doesn't obstruct
                        mine," she said. "Have you been reading what the papers
                        are saying about your friend Mr. Blithers and his obstreperous
                        Maud?"
                    Robin caught his breath. In a flash he suspected an excellent reason for
                        keeping the veil in place. It gave her a distinct advantage over him.
                    
                    "Yes. I see that she positively denies the whole business."
                    "Likewise the prospective spouse," she added.
                        "Isn't it sickening?"
                    "I wonder what Mr. Blithers is saying to-day," said he
                        audaciously. "Poor old cock, he must be as sore as a crab. By the
                        way, it is reported that she crossed on the steamer with us."
                    "I am quite certain that she did, Mr. Schmidt," said she.
                    "You really think so?" he cried, regarding
                        he- keenly.
                    "The man who came to meet me knows her quite well. He is confident
                        that he saw her at Cherbourg."
                    "I see," said he, and was thoroughly convinced. "I
                        may as well confess to you, Miss Guile, that I also know her when I see
                        her."
                    "But you told me positively that you had never seen her, Mr.
                        Schmidt," she said quickly.
                    "I had not seen her up to the second day out on the Jupiter," he explained, enjoying himself immensely.
                    "It was after that that you "
                    "I know," he said, as she hesitated; "but you see
                        I didn't know she was Miss Blithers until sometime after I had met
                        you." There was a challenge in his manner amounting almost to a
                        declaration.
                    She leaned forward to regard him more intently.
                    "Is it possible, Mr. Schmidt, that you suspect me
                        of being that horrid, vulgar creature?"
                    
                    Robin was not to be trapped. There was something in the shadowy eyes that
                        warned him.
                    "At least, I may say that I do not suspect you of being a horrid,
                        vulgar creature," he said evasively.
                    "What else can this Miss Blithers be if not that?"
                    "Would you say that she is vulgar because she refuses to acknowledge
                        a condition that doesn't exist? I think she did perfectly right in
                        denying the engagement."
                    "You haven't answered my question, Mr. Schmidt."
                    "Well," he began slowly, "I don't suspect
                        you of being Miss Blithers."
                    "But you did suspect it."
                    "I was pleasantly engaged in speculation that's all. It is
                        generally believed that Miss Blithers sailed under an assumed name
                        literally, not figuratively."
                    "Is there any reason why you should imagine that my name is not
                        Guile?"
                    "Yes. Your luggage is resplendently marked with the second letter in
                        the alphabet a gory, crimson B."
                    "I see," she said reflectively. "You examined my
                        luggage, as they say in the customs office. And you couldn't put B
                        and G together, is that it?"
                    "Obviously."
                    "If you had taken the trouble to look, you would have found an
                        equally resplendent G on the opposite end of each and every trunk, Mr.
                        Schmidt," she said quietly.
                    "I did not examine your luggage, Miss Guile,"  said he stiffly. She hadn't left
                        much for him to stand upon. "Rather unique way to put
                        one's initials on a trunk, isn't it?"
                    "It possesses the virtue of originality," she admitted,
                        "and it never fails to excite curiosity. I am sorry you were
                        misled. Nothing could be more distressing than to be mistaken for the
                        heroine of a story and then turn out to be a mere nobody in the end.
                        I've no doubt that if the amiable Miss Blithers were to hear of it,
                        she'd rush into print and belabour me with the largest type that
                        money could buy."
                    "Oh, come now, Miss Guile," he protested, "it
                        really isn't fair to Miss Blithers. She was justified in following
                        an illustrious example. You forget that the Prince of Graustark was the
                        first to rush into print with a flat denial. What else could the poor girl
                        do?"
                    "Oh, I am not defending the Prince of Graustark. He behaved
                        abominably, rushing into print as you say. Extremely bad taste, I should
                        call it."
                    Robin's ears burned. He could not defend himself. There was nothing
                        left for him to do but to say that it "served him jolly well right,
                        the way Miss Blithers came back at him."
                    "Still," she said, "I would be willing to make a
                        small wager that the well-advertised match comes off in spite of all the
                        denials. Given a determined father, an ambitious mother, a purse-filled
                        daughter and an empty-pursed nobleman, and I don't see how the
                        inevitable can be avoided."
                    His face was flaming. It was with difficulty that he  restrained the impulse to put her right in the matter without
                        further ado.
                    "Are you sure that the Prince is so empty of purse as all
                        that?" he managed to say, without betraying himself irretrievably.
                    "There doesn't seem to be any doubt that he borrowed
                        extensively of Mr. Blithers," she said scornfully. "He is
                        under some obligations to his would-be-father-in-law, I submit, now
                        isn't he?"
                    "I suppose so, Miss Guile," he admitted uncomfortably.
                    "And therefore owes him something more than a card in the
                        newspapers, don't you think?"
                    "Really, Miss Guile, I I "
                    "I beg your pardon. The Prince's affairs are of no
                        importance to you, so why should I expect you to stand up for him?"
                    "I confess that I am a great deal more interested in Miss Blithers
                        than I am in the Prince. By the way, what would you have done had you been
                        placed in her position?"
                    "I think I should have acted quite as independently as
                        she."
                    "If your father were to pick out a husband for you, whether or no,
                        you would refuse to obey the paternal command?"
                    "Most assuredly. As a matter of fact, Mr. Schmidt, my father has
                        expressed a wish that I should marry a man who doesn't appeal to me
                        at all."
                    "And you refuse?"
                    
                    "Absolutely."
                    "More or less as Miss Blithers has done," he said
                        pointedly.
                    "Miss Blithers, I understand, has the advantage of me in one
                        respect. I am told that she wants to marry another man and is very much in
                        love with him."
                    "A chap named Scoville," said Robin, unguardedly.
                    "You know him, Mr. Schmidt?"
                    "No. I've merely heard of him. I take it from your remark
                        that you don't want to marry anybody at present."
                    "Quite right. Not at present. Now let us talk of something else. A bas Blithers! Down with the plutocrats! Stamp out the
                        vulgarians! Is there anything else you can suggest?" she cried
                        gaily.
                    "Long live the Princess Maud!" said he, and doffed his hat.
                        The satirical note in his voice was not lost on her. She started
                        perceptibly, and caught her breath. Then she sank back into the corner with
                        a nervous, strained little laugh.
                    "You think she will marry him?"
                    "I think as you do about it, Miss Guile," said he, and she
                        was silenced.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV
                    THE MICE IN A TRAP
                    THEY had a table in a cool, shady corner of the broad
                        porch overlooking the Place d'Armes and the Seine and its
                        vociferous ferries. To the right runs the gleaming roadway that leads to the
                        hills and glades through which pomp and pride once strode with such fatal
                        arrogance. Blue coated servitors attended them on their arrival, and watched
                        over them during their stay. It was as if Miss Guile were the fairy princess
                        who had but to wish and her slightest desire was gratified. Her guest, a
                        real prince, marvelled not a little at the complete sway she exercised over
                        this somewhat autocratic army of menials. They bowed and scraped, and
                        fetched, and carried, and were not Swiss but slaves in Bagdad during the
                        reign of its most illustrious Caliph, Al-haroun Raschid the great. The magic
                        of Araby could have been no more potent than the spell this beautiful girl
                        cast over the house of Mammon. She laid her finger upon a purse of gold and
                        wished, and lo! the wonders of the magic carpet were repeated.
                    Robin remembered that Maud Applegate Blithers had spent the greater part of
                        her life in Paris, and it was therefore not unreasonable to suppose that she
                        had spent something else as well. At any rate, the  Pavillon Bleu was a place where it had to be
                        spent if one wanted the attention accorded the few.
                    She had removed her veil, but he was not slow to perceive that she sat with
                        her back to the long stretch of porch.
                    "Do you prefer this place to Armenonville or the Paillard at Pre
                        Catelan, Miss Guile?" he inquired, quite casually, but with a
                        secret purpose.
                    "No, it is stupid here, as a rule, and common. Still every one goes
                        to the other places in the afternoon and I particularly wanted to be as
                        naughty as possible, so I came here to-day."
                    "It doesn't strike me as especially naughty," he
                        remarked.
                    "But it was very, very naughty before you and I were born, Mr.
                        Schmidt. The atmosphere still remains, if one possesses a comprehensive
                        imagination."
                    "I daresay," said he, "but the imagination
                        doesn't thrive on tea. Those were the days of burgundy and a lot of
                        other red things."
                    "One doesn't need to be in shackles to expatiate on the
                        terrors of the Bridge of Sighs," she said.
                    "Are you going to take me up to the park?"
                    "Yes. Into the Shadows."
                    "Oh, that's good! I'm sure my imagination will
                        work beautifully when it isn't subdued by all these blue devils. I
                            Que voulez vous?" The question was directed
                        rather sharply to a particularly deferential "blue devil"
                        who stood at his elbow.
                    "Monsieur Schmidt?"
                    
                    "Yes. What's this? A letter! 'Pon my soul, how the
                        deuce could any one " He got no farther, for Miss Guile's
                        action in pulling down her veil and the subsequent spasmodic glance over her
                        shoulder betrayed such an agitated state of mind on her part that his own
                        sensations were checked at the outset.
                    "There must be some one here who knows you, Mr. Schmidt,"
                        she said nervously. "See what it says, please, at once. I perhaps
                        we should be starting home immediately."
                    Robin tore open the envelope. A glance showed him that the brief note was
                        from Gourou. A characteristic G served as a signature. As he read, a hard
                        line appeared between his eyes and his expression grew serious.
                    "It is really nothing, Miss Guile," he said and prepared to
                        tear the sheet into many pieces. "A stupid, alleged joke of a
                        fellow who happens to know me, that's all."
                    "Don't tear it up!" she cried sharply.
                        "What does it say? I have a right to know, Mr. Schmidt, even though
                        it is only a joke. What has this friend of yours to say about me? What
                        coarse, uncalled-for comment has he to make about "
                    "Let me think for a moment, Miss Guile," he interrupted,
                        suddenly realising that it was time for reflection. After a moment he said
                        soberly: "I think it would be wise if we were to leave instantly.
                        There is nothing to be alarmed about, I assure you, but well, we'd
                        better go."
                    
                    "Will you allow me to see that letter?" she asked,
                        extending her hand.
                    "I'd rather not, if you don't mind."
                    "But I insist, sir! I'll not go a step from this place
                        until I know what all this is about."
                    "As it happens to concern you even more than it does me, I suppose
                        you'd better see what it says." He passed the letter over
                        to her and watched her narrowly as she read. Again the veil served as a
                        competent mask.
                    "Who wrote this letter, Mr. Schmidt?" she demanded. Even
                        through the veil he could see that her eyes were wide with was it alarm or
                        anger?
                    "A man named Gourou. He is a detective engaged on a piece of work
                        for Mr. Totten."
                    "Is it a part of his duty to watch your movements?" she
                        asked, leaning forward.
                    "No. He is my friend, however," said Robin steadily.
                        "According to this epistle, it would appear that it is a part of
                        his duty to keep track of you, not me. May I ask why you should be shadowed
                        by two of his kind?"
                    She did not answer at once. When she spoke, it was with a determined effort
                        to maintain her composure.
                    "I am sorry to have subjected you to all this, Mr. Schmidt. We will
                        depart at once. I find that the cat is never away, so we can't be
                        mice. What a fool I've been." There was something
                        suspiciously suggestive of tears in her soft voice.
                    
                    He laid a hand upon the small fingers that clutched the crumpled sheet of
                        paper. To have saved his life, he could not keep the choked, husky tremor
                        out of his voice.
                    "The day is spoiled for you. That is my only regret. As for me, Miss
                        Guile, I am not without sin, so I may cast no stones. Pray regard me as a
                        fellow culprit, and rest assured that I have no bone to pick with you. I too
                        am watched and yet I am no more of a criminal than you. Will you allow me to
                        say that I am a friend whose devotion cannot be shaken by all the tempests
                        in the world?"
                    "Thank you," she said, and turned her hand under his to
                        give it a quick, convulsive clasp. Her spirits seemed to revive under the
                        responsive grip. "You might have said all the tempests in a tea
                        pot, for that is really what it amounts to. My father is a very foolish man.
                        Will you send for the car?"
                    He called an attendant and ordered him to find Miss Guile's footman
                        at once. When he returned to the table, she was reading the note once more.
                    "It is really quite thrilling, isn't it?" she
                        said, and there was still a quaver of indignation in her voice.
                        "Are you not mystified?"
                    "Not in the least," said he promptly, and drew a chair up
                        close beside hers. "It's as plain as day. Your father has
                        found you out, that's all. Let's read it again,"
                        and they read it together.
                    "A word to the wise," it began. "Two men from  a private detective concern have been
                        employed since yesterday in watching the movements of your companion, for
                        the purpose of safe-guarding her against good-looking young men, I suspect.
                        I have it from the most reliable of sources that her father engaged the
                        services of these men almost simultaneously with the date of our sailing
                        from New York. It may interest you to know that they followed you to St.
                        Cloud in a high-power car and no doubt are watching you as you read this
                        message from your faithful friend, who likewise is not far away."
                    "I should have anticipated this, Mr. Schmidt," she said
                        ruefully. "It is just the sort of thing my father would
                        do."
                    "You seem to take it calmly enough."
                    "I am quite used to it. I would be worth a great deal to any
                        enterprising person who made it his business to steal me. There is no limit
                        to the ransom he could demand."
                    "You alarm me," he declared. "No doubt these
                        worthy guardians look upon me as a kidnapper. I am inclined to
                        shiver."
                    " 'All's well that ends well,'"
                        quoth she, pulling on her gloves. "I shall restore you safely to
                        the bosom of the Ritz and that will be the end of it."
                    "I almost wish that some one would kidnap you, Miss Guile. It would
                        afford me the greatest pleasure in the world to snatch you from their
                        clutches. Your father would be saved paying the ransom but I  should have to be adequately rewarded. I
                        fancy, however, that he wouldn't mind paying the reward I should
                        hold out for."
                    "I am quite sure he would give you anything you were to ask for, Mr.
                        Schmidt," said she gaily. "You would be reasonable, of
                        course."
                    "I might ask for the most precious of his possessions,"
                        said he, leaning forward to look directly into eyes that wavered and refused
                        to meet his.
                    "Curiosity almost makes me wish that I might be kidnapped. I should
                        then find out what you consider to be his most precious
                        possession," she said, and her voice was perilously low.
                    "I think I could tell you in advance," said he, his eyes
                        shining.
                    "I I prefer to find out in my own way, Mr. Schmidt," she
                        stammered hurriedly. Her confusion was immensely gratifying to him. There is
                        no telling what might have happened to the Prince of Graustark at that
                        moment if an obsequious attendant had not intervened with the earthly
                        information that the car was waiting.
                    "Good Lord," Robin was saying to himself as he followed her
                        to the steps, "was I about to go directly against the sage advice
                        of old Gourou? Was I so near to it as that? In another minute Gee, but it
                        was a close shave. She is adorable, she is the most adorable creature in the
                        world, even though she is the daughter of old man Blithers, and I '
                        gad I wonder what will come of it in the end? Keep a tight  grip on yourself, Bobby, or you're a
                        goner, sure as fate."
                    They were painfully aware of the fact that their progress down the long
                        verandah was made under the surveillance of two, perhaps three pairs of
                        unwavering eyes, and because of it they looked neither to right nor left but
                        as those who walk tight-ropes over dangerous places. There was something
                        positively uncanny in the feeling that their every movement was being
                        watched by secret observers. Once inside the car, Miss Guile sank back with
                        a long sigh of relief.
                    "Did you feel it, too?" she asked, with a nervous little
                        catch in her voice.
                    "I did," said he, passing his hand over his brow.
                        "It was like being alone in the dark with eyes staring at one from
                        all sides of the room."
                    The car shot across the bridge and was speeding on its way toward the Bois
                        when Robin ventured a glance behind. Through the little window in the back
                        of the car he saw a big, swift-moving automobile not more than a quarter of
                        a mile in their rear.
                    "Would you like to verify the report of my friend Gourou?"
                        he asked, his voice quick with exhilaration. She knelt with one knee upon
                        the seat and peered back along the road.
                    "There they are!" she cried. She threw the veil back over
                        her hat as she resumed her seat in the corner. Her eyes were fairly dancing
                        with excitement. The warm red lips were parted and she was breathing
                        quickly. Suddenly she laid her hand over her heart  as if to check its lively thumping. "Isn't
                        it splendid? We are being pursued actually chased by the man-hunters of
                        Paris! Oh, I was never so happy in my life. Isn't it
                        great?"
                    "It is glorious!" he cried exultantly. "Shall I
                        tell the chauffeur to hit it up a bit? Let's make it a real
                        chase."
                    "Yes, do! We'll see if we can foil them, as they say in the
                        books. Oh, wouldn't it be wonderful if we were to to what do you
                        call it? Give them the slip, isn't that it?"
                    "I'm game," said he, with enthusiasm. For a second
                        or two they looked straight into each other's eyes and a message
                        was exchanged that never could have been put into words. No doubt it was the
                        flush of eager excitement that darkened their cheeks. In any case, it came
                        swiftly and went as quickly, leaving them paler than before and vastly
                        self-conscious. And after that brief, searching look they knew that they
                        could never be as they were before the exchange. They were no longer
                        strangers to each other, but shy comrades and filled with a delicious sense
                        of wonder.
                    Robin gave hurried directions through the speaking tube to the attentive
                        footman, and so explicit were these directions that the greatest excitement
                        prevailed upon the decorous front seat of the car first the footman looked
                        back along the road, then the chauffeur, after which a thrill of excitement
                        seemed to fairly race up and down their liveried backs. The car itself took
                        a notion to quiver with the promise of joy 
                        unrestrained. In less than a minute they were going more than a mile a
                        minute over a short stretch of the Avenue de Longchamp. At the Porte de
                        Hippodrome they slowed down and ran into the Bois, taking the first road to
                        the left. In a few minutes they were scudding past Longchamp at a
                        "fair clip" to quote R. Schmidt. Instead of diverging into
                        the Allee de Longchamp, the car took a sharp turn into the Avenue de
                        l'Hippodrome and, at the intersection, doubled back over the Allee
                        de la Reine Marguerite, going almost to the Boulogne gate, where again it
                        was sent Parisward over the Avenue de St. Cloud.
                    Miss Guile was in command of the flight. She called out the instructions to
                        the driver and her knowledge of the intricate routes through the park stood
                        them well in hand. Purposely she evaded the Cascades, circling the little
                        pools by narrow, unfrequented roads, coming out at last to the Porte de la
                        Muette, where they left the park and took to the Avenue Henri Martin. It was
                        her design to avoid the customary routes to the heart of the city, and all
                        would have gone well with them had not fate in the shape of two burly sergents de ville intervened at a time when success seemed
                        most certain. It was quite clear to the pursued that the car containing
                        their followers had been successfully eluded and was no doubt in the Champs
                        Elysees by this time. For some time there had been a worried look in the
                        Prince's eyes. Once he undertook to remonstrate with his fair
                        companion.
                    "My dear Miss Guile, we'll land in jail if we keep  up this hair-raising speed. There
                        wouldn't be any fun in that, you know."
                    She gave him a scornful look. "Are you afraid, Mr.
                        Schmidt?"
                    "Not on my own account," said he, "but yours.
                        I've heard that the new regulations are extremely rigid."
                    "Pooh! I'm not afraid of the police. They why,
                        what's the matter? Oh, goodness!"
                    The car had come to a somewhat abrupt stop. Two policemen, dismounted from
                        their bicycles, formed an insurmountable obstruction. They were almost in
                        the shade of the Trocadero.
                    "Do not be alarmed," whispered Robin to the fast paling
                        girl, into whose eyes the most abject misery had leaped at the sight of the
                        two officers. "Leave it to me. I can fix them all right.
                        There's nothing to be worried about well, sergent, what is it?"
                    The polite officers came up to the window with their little note-books.
                    "I regret, m'sieur, that we shall be obliged to conduct
                        yourself and mademoiselle to the office of a magistrate. Under the new
                        regulations set forth in the order of last May, motorists may be given a
                        hearing at once. I regret to add that m'sieur has been exceeding
                        the speed limit. A complaint came in but a few minutes ago from the Porte de
                        la Muette and we have been ordered to intercept the car. You may follow us
                        to the office of the magistrate, m'sieur. It will soon be over,
                        mademoiselle."
                    
                    "But we can explain " she began nervously.
                    The sergent held up his hand. "It is not necessary
                        to explain, mademoiselle. Too many motorists have explained in the past but
                        that does not restore to life the people they have killed in the pursuit of
                        pleasure. Paris is enforcing her laws."
                    "But, sergent, I alone am to blame for any
                        violation of the law," said Robin suavely. "Surely it is
                        only necessary that I should accompany you to the magistrate. The young lady
                        is in no way responsible "
                    "Alas, m'sieur," said the man firmly but as if he
                        were quite broken-hearted, "it is not for me to disobey the law,
                        even though you may do so. It is necessary for the lady to appear before the
                        Judge, and it is our duty to convey her there. The new law explicitly says
                        that all occupants of said car shall be subject to penalty under the law
                        without reprieve or pardon!"
                    "Where are your witnesses?" demanded Robin.
                    The two men produced their watches and their note-books, tapping them
                        significantly.
                    "M'sieur will not think of denying that he has been running
                        more rapidly than the law allows," said the second officer.
                        "It will go harder with him if he should do so."
                    "I shall insist upon having an advocate to represent me before
                        "
                    "As you like, m'sieur," said the first officer
                        curtly. "Proceed!" he uttered as a command to the
                        chauffeur,  and forthwith mounted his wheel. A
                        score of people had gathered round them by this time, and Miss Guile was
                        crouching back in her corner. Her veil was down. In single file, so to
                        speak, they started off for the office of the nearest magistrate appointed
                        under the new law governing automobiles. A policeman pedaled ahead of the
                        car and another followed.
                    "Isn't it dreadful?" whispered Miss Guile.
                        "What do you think they will do to us? Oh, I am so sorry, Mr.
                        Schmidt, to have dragged you into this horrid "
                    "I wouldn't have missed it for anything in the
                        world," said he so earnestly that she sat up a little straighter
                        and caught her breath. "After all, they will do no more than assess
                        a fine against us. A hundred francs, perhaps. That is nothing."
                    "I am not so sure of that," said she gloomily. "My
                        friends were saying only yesterday that the new law provides for
                        imprisonment as well. Paris has constructed special prisons for motorists,
                        and people are compelled to remain in them for days and weeks at a time. Oh,
                        I hope "
                    "I'll inquire of the footman," said Robin.
                        "He will know." The footman, whose face was very long and
                        serious, replied through the tube that very few violators escaped
                        confinement in the "little prisons." He also said
                        "Mon dieu" a half dozen times, and there was a movement of
                        the driver's pallid lips that seemed to indicate a fervent echo.
                    "I shall telephone at once to my friends," said  Miss Guile, a note of anger in her voice.
                        "They are very powerful in Paris. We shall put those miserable
                        wretches in their proper places. They "
                    "We must not forget, Miss Guile, that we were
                        breaking the law," said Robin, who was beginning to enjoy the
                        discomfiture of this spoiled beauty, this girl whose word was a sort of law
                        unto itself.
                    "It is perfect nonsense," she declared. "We did no
                        harm. Goodness! What is this?"
                    Four or five policemen on wheels passed by the car, each with a forbidding
                        glance through the windows.
                    "They are the boys we left behind us," paraphrased Robin
                        soberly. "The park policemen. They've just caught us up,
                        and, believe me, they look serious, too. I dare say we are in for
                        it."
                    In a very few minutes the procession arrived at a low, formidable looking
                        building on a narrow side street. The cavalcade of policemen dismounted and
                        stood at attention while Mademoiselle and Monsieur got down from the car and
                        followed a polite person in uniform through the doors. Whereupon the group
                        of sergents de ville trooped in behind, bringing with them
                        the neatly liveried servants with the golden letter L on their cuffs.
                    "I believe there is a jail back there," whispered the slim
                        culprit, a quaver in her voice. She pointed down the long, narrow corridor
                        at the end of which loomed a rather sinister looking door with thick
                        bolt-heads studding its surface.
                    
                    An instant later they were ushered into a fair-sized room on the left of the
                        hall, where they were commanded to sit down. A lot of chairs stood about the
                        room, filling it to the farthest corners, while at the extreme end was the
                        Judge's bench.
                    "I insist on being permitted to telephone to friends to my legal
                        advisors," began Miss Guile, with praiseworthy firmness, only to be
                        silenced by the attendant, who whispered shrilly that a trial was in
                        progress, couldn't she see?
                    Two dejected young men were standing before the Judge, flanked by three sergents de ville. Robin and Miss Guile stared wide-eyed
                        at their fellow criminals and tried to catch the low words spoken by the fat
                        Magistrate. Once more they were ordered to sit down, this time not quite so
                        politely, and they took seats in the darkest corner of the room, as far
                        removed from justice as possible under the circumstances.
                    Presently a young man approached them. He was very nice looking and
                        astonishingly cheerful. The hopes of the twain went up with a bound. His
                        expression was so benign, so bland that they at once jumped to the
                        conclusion that he was coming to tell them that they were free to go, that
                        it had all been a stupid mistake. But they were wrong. He smilingly
                        introduced himself as an advocate connected with the court by appointment
                        and that he would be eternally grateful to them if they would tell him what
                        he could do for them.
                    
                    "I'd like to have a word in private with the
                        Magistrate," said the Prince of Graustark eagerly.
                    "Impossible!" said the advocate, lifting his eye-brows and
                        his smart little mustachios in an expression of extreme amazement.
                        "It is imposs " A sharp rapping on the Judge's
                        desk reduced the remainder of the sentence to a delicate whisper
                        "ible, M'sieur."
                    "Will you conduct me to a telephone booth?" whispered Miss
                        Guile, tearfully.
                    "Pray do not weep, Mademoiselle," implored the advocate,
                        profoundly moved, but at the same time casting a calculating eye over the
                        luckless pair.
                    "Well, what's to be done?" demanded Robin.
                        "We insist on having our own legal advisors here."
                    "The court will not delay the hearing, M'sieur,"
                        explained the young man. "Besides, the best legal advisor in Paris
                        could do no more than to advise you to plead guilty. I at least can do that
                        quite as ably as the best of them. No one ever pretends to defend a case in
                        the automobile courts, M'sieur. It is a waste of time, and the
                        court does not approve of wasting time. Perhaps you will feel more content
                        if I introduce the assistant public prosecutor, who will explain the law.
                        That is his only duty. He does not prosecute. There is no need. The sergents testify and that is all there is to the
                        case."
                    "May I inquire what service you can be to us if the whole business
                        is cut and dried like that?" asked Robin.
                    
                    "Not so loud, M'sieur. As I said before, I can advise you
                        in respect to your plea, and I can tell you how to present your statement to
                        the court. I can caution you in many ways. Sometimes a prisoner, who is
                        well-rehearsed, succeeds in affecting the honourable Magistrate nicely, and
                        the punishment is not so severe."
                    "So you advise us to plead guilty as delicately as
                        possible?"
                    "I shall not advise you, M'sieur, unless it pleases you to
                        retain me as your counsellor. The fee is small. Ten francs. Inasmuch as the
                        amount is charged against you in the supplemental costs, it seems foolish
                        not to take advantage of what you are obliged to pay for in any event. You
                        will have to pay my fee, so you may as well permit me to be of service to
                        you."
                    "My only concern is over Mademoiselle," said the Prince.
                        "You may send me to jail if you like, if you'll only
                        "
                    "Mon dieu! I am not the one who enjoys the distinguished honour of
                        being permitted to send people to jail, but the Judge,
                        M'sieur."
                    "It is ridiculous to submit this innocent young lady to the
                        humiliation of "
                    "It is not only ridiculous but criminal," said the
                        advocate, with a magnificent bow. "But what is one to do when it is
                        the law? Of late, the law is peculiarly sexless. And now here is where I
                        come in. It is I who shall instruct you both of you, Mademoiselle  how to conduct yourselves before the
                        Magistrate. Above all things, do not attempt to contradict a single
                        statement of the police. Admit that all they say is true, even though they
                        say that you have run over a child or an old woman with mortal results. It
                        will go much easier with you. Exercise the gravest politeness and deference
                        toward the honourable Magistrate and to every officer of the court. You are
                        Americans, no doubt. The courts are prone to be severe with the Americans
                        because they sometimes undertake to tell them how easy it is to get the
                        right kind of justice in your wonderfully progressive United States. Be
                        humble, contrite, submissive, for that is only justice to the court. If you
                        have killed some one in your diversions, pray do not try to tell the
                        magistrate that the idiot ought to have kept his eyes open. Another thing:
                        do not inform the court that you require a lawyer. That is evidence of
                        extreme culpability and he will consider you to be inexcusably guilty. Are
                        you attending? Pray do not feel sorry for the two young men who are now
                        being led away. See! They are weeping. It is as I thought. They are going to
                        prison for But that is their affair, not ours. I advised them as I am
                        advising you, but they insisted on making a statement of their case. That
                        was fatal, for it failed in many respects to corroborate the information
                        supplied by the police. It "
                    "What was the charge against them?" whispered Miss Guile,
                        quaking. She had watched the exit of  the
                        tearful young men, one of whom was sobbing bitterly, and a great fear
                        possessed her.
                    "Of that, Mademoiselle, I am entirely ignorant, but they were
                        unmistakably guilty of denying it, whatever it was."
                    "Are they going to prison?" she gasped.
                    "It is not that which causes them to weep so bitterly, but the
                        knowledge that their names are to be posted on the bulletin boards in the
                        Place de l'Opera, the Place de l'Concorde, the "
                    "Good Lord!" gasped Robin. "Is that being done?"
                    "It is M'sieur, and the effect is marvellous. Three months
                        ago the boards were filled with illustrious names; to-day there are but few
                        to be found upon them. The people have discovered that the courts are in
                        earnest. The law is obeyed as it never was before. The prisons were crowded
                        to suffocation at one time; now they are almost empty. It is a good law.
                        To-day a mother can wheel her baby carriage in the thickest of the traffic
                        and run no risk of Ah, but here is the assistant prosecutor coming. Permit
                        me to further warn you that you will be placed under oath to tell the
                        absolute truth. The prosecutor will ask but three questions of you: your
                        age, your name and your place of residence. All of them you must answer
                        truthfully, especially as to your names. If it is discovered that you have
                        falsely given a name not your own, the lowest penalty is sixty days in
                        prison, imposed afterwards in addition to the sentence  you will receive for violating the traffic laws. I have
                        performed my duty as required by the commissioner. My fee is a fixed one, so
                        you need not put your hand into your pocket, M'sieur. Good day,
                        Mademoiselle good day, M'sieur." He bowed profoundly and
                        gave way to the impatient prosecutor, who had considerately held himself
                        aloof while the final words were being uttered, albeit he glanced at his
                        watch a couple of times.
                    "Come," he said, and he did not whisper; "let us
                        be as expeditious as possible. Approach the court. It is "
                    "See here," said Robin savagely, "this is too
                        damned high-handed. Are we to have no chance to defend ourselves? We
                        "
                    "Just as you please, M'sieur," interrupted the
                        prosecutor patiently. "It is nothing to me. I receive my fee in any
                        event. If you care to defy the law in addition to what you have already
                        done, it is not for me to object."
                    "Well, I insist on having "
                    A thunderous pounding on the bench interrupted his hot-headed speech.
                    "Attend!" came in a sharp, uncompromising voice from the
                        bench. "What is the delay? This is no time to think. All that
                        should have been done before. Step forward! Sergent, see
                        that the prisoners step forward."
                    Robin slipped his arm through Miss Guile's, expecting her to droop
                        heavily upon it for support. To his  surprise
                        she drew herself up, dis-engaged herself, and walked straight up to the
                        bench, without fear or hesitation. It was Robin who needed an example of
                        courage and fortitude, not she. The chauffeur and footman, shivering in
                        their elegance, already stood before the bench.
                    "Will you be so kind as to raise your veil, Madam?" spake
                        the court.
                    She promptly obeyed. He leaned forward with sudden interest. The prosecutor
                        blinked and abruptly overcame the habitual inclination to appear bored. Such
                        ravishing beauty had never before found its way into that little court-room.
                        Adjacent moustaches were fingered somewhat convulsively by several sergents de ville.
                    
                    "Ahem!" said the court, managing with some difficulty to
                        regain his judicial form. "I am compelled by law, Mademoiselle, to
                        warn you before you are placed under oath that the lowest penalty for giving
                        a false name in answer to the charge to be brought against you is
                        imprisonment for not less than sixty days. I repeat this warning to you,
                        young man. Be sworn, if you please."
                    Robin experienced a queer sense of exultation, not at all lessened by the
                        knowledge that he would be forced to reveal his own identity. Would she call
                        herself Bedelia Guile or would she "
                    "State your name, Mademoiselle," said the prosecutor.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI
                    THREE MESSAGES
                    MISS GUILE lowered her head for an
                        instant. Robin could see that her lip was quivering. A vast pity for her
                        took possession of him and he was ashamed of what he now regarded as
                        unexampled meanness of spirit on his own part. She lifted her shamed,
                        pleading eyes to search his, as if expecting to find succour in their
                        fearless depths. She found them gleaming with indignation, suddenly aroused,
                        and was instantly apprehensive. There was a look in those eyes of his that
                        seemed prophetic of dire results unless she checked the words that were
                        rising to his lips. She shook her head quickly and, laying a hand upon his
                        arm, turned to the waiting magistrate.
                    "My name is Oh, is there no way to avoid the publicity "
                        she sighed miserably "the publicity that "
                    "I regret, Mademoiselle, that there is no alternative "
                        began the Judge, to be interrupted by the banging of the court-room door. He
                        looked up, glaring at the offender with ominous eyes. The polite attendant
                        from the outer corridor was advancing in great haste. He was not only in
                        haste but vastly perturbed.
                    Despite the profound whack of the magistrate's  paper weight on the hollow top of the desk and the withering
                        scowl that went with it, the attendant rushed forward, forgetting his
                        manners, his habits and his power of speech in one complete surrender to
                        nature. He thrust into the hand of the Judge a slip of paper, at the same
                        time gasping something that might have been mistaken for an appeal for
                        pardon but which more than likely was nothing of the sort.
                    "What is this?" demanded the Judge ferociously.
                    "Mon dieu!" replied the attendant, rolling his eyes
                        heavenward.
                    The magistrate was impressed. He took up the slip of paper and read what was
                        written thereon. Then he was guilty of a start. The next instant he had the
                        prosecutor up beside him and then the advocate. Together they read the
                        message from the outside and together they lifted three pairs of incredulous
                        eyes to stare at the culprits below. There was a hurried consultation in
                        excited whisperings, intermittent stares and far from magisterial blinkings.
                    Robin bent close to Bedelia's ear and whispered: "We must
                        have killed some one, the way they are acting."
                    Her face was glowing with triumph. "No. Luck is with us, Mr.
                        Schmidt. You'll see!"
                    The magistrate cleared his throat and beamed upon them in a most friendly
                        fashion.
                    Robin grasped the situation in a flash. His own identity had been revealed to
                        the Judge. It was not likely that the daughter of William Blithers could  create such lively interest in a French court
                        of justice, so it must be that Gourou or Quinnox had come
                        to the rescue. The court would not think of fining a prince of the royal
                        blood, law or no law!
                    "M'sieur, Mademoiselle, will you be so good as to resume
                        your seats? An extraordinary condition has arisen. I shall be obliged to
                        investigate. The trial must be interrupted for a few minutes. Pardon the
                        delay. I shall return as quickly as possible. Sergent! See
                        that Mademoiselle and M'sieur are made comfortable."
                    He descended from the bench and hurried into the corridor, followed closely
                        by the prosecutor and the advocate, both of whom almost trod on his heels.
                        This may have been due to the fact that they were slighter men and more
                        sprightly, but more than likely it was because they were unable to see where
                        they were going for the excellent reason that they were not looking in that
                        direction at all.
                    Policemen and attendants, mystified but impressed, set about to make the
                        culprits comfortable. They hustled at least a half dozen roomy chairs out of
                        an adjoining chamber; they procured palm-leaf fans and even proffered the
                        improbable ice-water! after which they betook themselves to a remote corner
                        and whispered excitedly at each other, all the while regarding the two
                        prisoners with intense interest. Even the despairing footman and chauffeur
                        exhibited unmistakable signs of life.
                    "I fancy my friends have heard of our plight, Mr.  Schmidt," she said, quite
                        composedly. "We will be released in a very few minutes."
                    He smiled complacently. He could afford to let her believe that her friends
                        and not his were performing a miracle.
                    "Your friends must be very powerful," he said.
                    "They are," said she, with considerable directness.
                    "Still, we are not out of the scrape yet, Miss Guile," he
                        remarked, shaking his head. "It may be a flash in the
                        pan."
                    "Oh, please don't say that," she cried in quick
                        alarm. "I I should die if if we were to be sent to "
                    "Listen to me," he broke in eagerly, for an inspiration had
                        come to him. "There's no reason why you should suffer, in
                        any event. Apparently I am a suspected person. I may just as well be a
                        kidnapper as not. You must allow me to inform the Judge that I was abducting
                        you, so that he "
                    "How absurd!"
                    "I don't in the least mind. Besides, I too have powerful
                        friends who will see that I am released in a day or two. You "
                    "You cannot hope to convince the Judge that you were abducting me in
                        my own automobile or at least in one belonging to my friends, who are
                        irreproachable. I am very much obliged to you for thinking of it, Mr.
                        Schmidt, but it is out of the question. I couldn't allow you to do
                        it in the first place,  and in the second
                        I'm sure the court wouldn't believe you."
                    "It was I who suggested running away from those
                        detectives," he protested.
                    "But I jumped at the chance, didn't I?" she
                        whispered triumphantly. "I am even guiltier than thou. Can you ever
                        forgive me for "
                    "Hush!" he said, in a very low voice. His hand fell upon
                        hers as it rested on the arm of the chair. They were in the shadows. She
                        looked up quickly and their eyes met. After a moment hers fell, and she
                        gently withdrew her hand from its place of bondage. "We are pals,
                        Bedelia," he went on softly. "Pals never go back on each
                        other. They sink or swim together, and they never stop to inquire the reason
                        why. When it comes to a pinch, one or the other will sacrifice himself that
                        his pal may be saved. I "
                    "Please do not say anything more," she said, her eyes
                        strangely serious and her voice vibrant with emotion.
                        "Please!"
                    "I have a confession to make to you," he began, leaning
                        still closer. "You have taken me on faith. You do not know who or
                        what I am. I "
                    She held up her hand, an engaging frown in her eyes. "Stop! This is
                        no place for confessions. I will not listen to you. Save your confessions
                        for the magistrate. Tell him the truth, Mr. Schmidt. I am content to
                        wait."
                    He stared for an instant, perplexed. "See here,  Miss Guile, Bedelia, I've just got to tell you
                        something that "
                    "You may tell me at Interlaken," she interrupted, and she
                        was now quite visibly agitated.
                    "At Interlaken? Then you mean to carry out your plan to spend
                        "
                    "Sh! Here they come. Now we shall see."
                    The magistrate and his companions re-entered the room at that instant, more
                        noticeably excited than when they left it. The former, rubbing his hands
                        together and smiling as he had never smiled before, approached the pair. It
                        did not occur to him to resent the fact that they remained seated in his
                        august presence.
                    "A lamentable mistake has been made," he said. "I
                        regret that M'sieur and Mademoiselle have been subjected to so
                        grave an indignity. Permit me to apologise for the misguided energy of our
                        excellent sergents. They "
                    "But we were exceeding the speed limit," said Robin
                        comfortably, now that the danger was past. "The officers were
                        acting within their rights."
                    "I know, I know," exclaimed the magistrate. "They
                        are splendid fellows, all of them, and I beg of you to overlook their
                        unfortunate er zealousness. Permit me to add that you are not guilty I
                        should say, that you are honourably discharged by this humble court. But
                        wait! The sergents shall also apologise. Here! Attend. It
                        devolves upon you "
                    
                    "Oh, I beg of you " began Robin, but already the policemen,
                        who had been listening open-mouthed to the agitated prosecutor, were bowing
                        and scraping and muttering their apologies for enforcing a cruel and unjust
                        law.
                    "And we are not obliged to give our names, M'sieur le judge?" cried Miss Guile gladly.
                    "Mademoiselle," said he, with a profound bow, "it
                        is not necessary to acquaint me with something I already know. Permit me to
                        again express the most unbounded regret that "
                    "Oh, thank you," she cried. "We have had a really
                        delightful experience. You owe us no apology, M'sieur. And now, may
                        we depart?"
                    "Instantly! LaChance, conduct M'sieur and Mademoiselle into
                        the fresh, sweet, open air and discover their car for them without delay.
                            Sergents, remain behind. Let there be nothing to
                        indicate that there has been detention. Mademoiselle, you have been merely
                        making a philanthropic visit to our prison. There has been no
                        arrest."
                    Robin and Miss Guile emerged from the low, forbidding door and stood side by
                        side on the pavement looking up and down the street in search of the car. It
                        was nowhere in sight. The chauffeur gasped with amazement and alarm. He had
                        left it standing directly in front of the door, and now it was gone.
                    "It is suggested, M'sieur," said the polite
                        La-Chance, "that you walk to the corner beyond, turn to the left
                        and there you will find the car in plain 
                        view. It was removed by two gentlemen soon after you condescended to honour
                        us with a visit of inspection, and thereby you have escaped much unnecessary
                        attention from the curious who always infest the vicinity of police
                        offices." He saluted them gravely and returned at once to the
                        corridor.
                    Following leisurely in the wake of the hurrying servants, Robin and Bedelia
                        proceeded down the narrow street to the corner indicated. They were silent
                        and preoccupied. After all, who was to be thanked for the
                        timely escape, his god or hers?
                    And here it may be said that neither of them was ever to know who sent that
                        brief effective message to the magistrate, nor were they ever to know the
                        nature of its contents.
                    The men were examining the car when they came up. No one was near. There was
                        no one to tell how it came to be there nor whither its unknown driver had
                        gone. It stood close to the curb and the engine was throbbing, proof in
                        itself that some one had but recently deserted his post as guardian.
                    "The obliging man-hunters," suggested Robin in reply to a
                        low-voiced question.
                    "Or your guardian angel, the great Gourou!" she said,
                        frowning slightly. "By the way, Mr. Schmidt, do you expect to be
                        under surveillance during your stay at Interlaken?"
                    There was irony in her voice. "Not if I can help it," he
                        said. "And you, Miss Guile? Is it possible that two of the best
                        detectives in Paris are to continue  treading
                        on your heels all the time you are in Europe? Must we go about with the
                        uncomfortable feeling that some one is staring at us from behind, no matter
                        where we are? Are we to be perpetually attended by the invisible? If so, I
                        am afraid we will find it very embarrassing."
                    They were in the car now and proceeding at a snail's pace toward the
                        Arc de Triomphe. Her eyes narrowed. He was sure that she clutched her slim
                        fingers tightly although, for an excellent reason, he was not by way of
                        knowing. He was rapturously watching those expressive eyes.
                    "I shall put a stop to this ridiculous espionage at once, Mr.
                        Schmidt. These men shall be sent kiting I mean, about their business before
                        this day is over. I do not intend to be spied upon an instant
                        longer."
                    "Still they may have been instruments of providence
                        to-day," he reminded her. "Without them, we might now be
                        languishing in jail and our spotless names posted in the Place de
                        l'Opera. Bedelia Guile and Rex Schmidt, malefactors. What would
                        your father say to that?"
                    She smiled a ravishing smile, it was. His heart gave a stupendous jump.
                        "He would say that it served me right," said she, and
                        then: "But what difference can it possibly make to you, Mr.
                        Schmidt, if the detectives continue to watch over me?"
                    "None," said he promptly. "I suppose they are used
                        to almost anything in the way of human nature,  so if they don't mind, I'm sure I
                        sha'n't. I haven't the slightest objection to
                        being watched by detectives, if we can only keep other people from seeing
                        us."
                    "Don't be silly," she cried. "And let me
                        remind you while I think of it: You are not to call me Bedelia."
                    "Bedelia," he said deliberately.
                    She sighed. "I am afraid I have been mistaken in you," she
                        said. He recalled Gourou's advice. Had he failed in the test?
                        "But don't do it again."
                    "Now that I think of it," he said soberly, "you
                        are not to call me Mr. Schmidt. Please bear that in mind, Bedelia."
                    "Thank you. I don't like the name. I'll call you
                        "
                    Just then the footman turned on the seat and excitedly pointed to a car that
                        had swung into the boulevard from a side street.
                    "The man-hunters!" exclaimed Robin. "By jove, we
                        didn't lose them after all."
                    "To the Ritz, Pierre," she cried out sharply. Once more she
                        seemed perturbed and anxious.
                    "What are you going to call me?" he demanded, insistently.
                    "I haven't quite decided," she replied, and lapsed
                        into moody silence.
                    Her nervousness increased as they sped down the Champs Elysees and across the
                        Place de la Concorde. He thought that he understood the cause and presently
                        sought to relieve her anxiety by suggesting that  she set him down somewhere along the Rue de Rivoli. She
                        flushed painfully.
                    "Thank you, Mr. Schmidt, I are you sure you will not mind?"
                    "May I ask what it is that you are afraid of, Miss Guile?"
                        he inquired seriously.
                    She was lowering her veil. "I am not afraid, Mr. Schmidt,"
                        she said. "I am a very, very guilty person, that's all.
                        I've done something I ought not to have done, and I'm
                        I'm ashamed. You don't consider me a bold, silly
                        "
                    "Good Lord, no!" he cried fervently.
                    "Then why do you call me Bedelia?" she asked, shaking her
                        head.
                    "If you feel that way about it, I I humbly implore you to overlook
                        my freshness," he cried in despair.
                    "Will you get out here, Mr. Schmidt?" She pressed a button
                        and the car swung alongside the curb.
                    "When am I to see you again?" he asked, holding out his
                        hand. She gave it a firm, friendly grip and said:
                    "I am going to Switzerland the day after tomorrow.
                        Good-bye."
                    In a sort of daze, he walked up the Rue Castiliogne to the Place Vendome. His
                        heart was light and his eyes were shining with a flame that could have but
                        one origin. He was no longer in doubt. He was in love. He had found the
                        Golden Girl almost at the  end of his journey,
                        and what cared he if she did turn out to be the daughter of old man
                        Blithers? What cared he for anything but Bedelia? There
                        would be a pretty howdy-do when he announced to his people that their
                        Princess had been selected for them, whether or no, and there might be such
                        a thing as banishment for himself. Even at that, he would be content, for
                        Bedelia was proof against titles. If she loved him, it would be for himself.
                        She would scorn the crown and mock the throne, and they would go away
                        together and live happily ever afterward, as provided by the most exacting
                        form of romance. And Blithers? What a joke it would be on Blithers if he
                        gave up the throne!
                    As he approached the Ritz, a tall young man emerged from the entrance, stared
                        at him for an instant, and then swung off at a rapid pace in the direction
                        of the Rue de la Paix. The look he gave Robin was one of combined amazement
                        and concern, and the tail end of it betrayed unmistakable annoyance, or it
                        might have been hatred. He looked over his shoulder once and found Robin
                        staring after him. This time there could be no mistake. He was furious, but
                        whether with Robin or himself there was no means of deciding from the
                        standpoint of an observer. At any rate, he quickened his pace and soon
                        disappeared.
                    He was the good-looking young fellow who had met her at the steamship
                        landing, and it was quite obvious that he had been making investigations on
                        his own account.
                    
                    Robin permitted himself a sly grin as he sauntered into the hotel. He had
                        given that fellow something to worry about, if he had
                        accomplished nothing else. Then he found himself wondering if, by any
                        chance, it could be the Scoville fellow. That would be a facer!
                    He found Quinnox and Dank awaiting him in the lobby. They were visibly
                        excited.
                    "Did you observe the fellow who just went out?" inquired
                        Robin, assuming a most casual manner.
                    "Yes," said both men in unison.
                    "I think we've got some interesting news concerning that
                        very chap," added the Count, glancing around uneasily.
                    "Perhaps I may be able to anticipate it, Count," ventured
                        Robin. "I've an idea he is young Scoville, the chap who is
                        supposed to be in love with Miss Blithers and vice
                        versa," he concluded, with a chuckle.
                    "What have you heard?" demanded the Count in astonishment.
                    "Let's sit down," said Robin, at once convinced
                        that he had stumbled upon an unwelcome truth.
                    They repaired to the garden and were lucky enough to find a table somewhat
                        removed from the crowd of tea-drinkers. Robin began fanning himself with his
                        broad straw-hat. He felt uncomfortably warm. Quinnox gravely extracted two
                        or three bits of paper from his pocket, and spread them out in order before
                        his sovereign.
                    
                    "Read this one first," said he grimly.
                    It was a cablegram from their financial agents in New York City, and it said:
                        "Mr. B. making a hurried trip to Paris. Just learned Scoville
                        preceded Miss B. to Europe by fast steamer and has been seen with her in
                        Paris. B. fears an elopement. Make sure papers are signed at once as such
                        contingency might cause B. to change mind and withdraw if
                        possible."
                    Robin looked up. "I think this may account for the two
                        man-hunters," said he. His companions stared. "You will
                        hear all about them from Gourou. We were followed this afternoon."
                    "Followed?" gasped Quinnox.
                    "Beautifully," said the Prince, with his brightest smile.
                        "Detectives, you know. It was ripping."
                    "My God!" groaned the Count.
                    "I fancy you'll now agree with me that she is Miss
                        Blithers," said Dank forlornly.
                    "Cheer up, Boske," cried Robin, slapping him on the
                        shoulder. "You'll meet another fate before you're
                        a month older. The world is absolutely crowded with girls."
                    "You can't crowd the world with one girl," said
                        Dank, and it was quite evident from his expression that he believed the
                        world contained no more than one.
                    "I had the feeling that evil would be the result of this foolish
                        trip to-day," groaned Quinnox. "I should not have
                        permitted you to "
                    
                    "The result is still in doubt," said Robin enigmatically.
                        "And now, what comes next?"
                    "Read this one. It is from Mr. Blithers. I'll guarantee
                        that you do not take this one so complacently."
                    He was right in his surmise. Robin ran his eye swiftly over the cablegram and
                        then started up from his chair with a muttered imprecation.
                    "Sh!" cautioned the Count, and just in time, for the young
                        man was on the point of enlarging upon his original effort. "Calm
                        yourself, Bobby, my lad. Try taking six or seven full, deep inhalations, and
                        you'll find that it helps wonderfully as a preventive. It saves
                        many a harsh word. I've "
                    "You needn't caution me," murmured the Prince.
                        "If I had the tongue of a pirate I couldn't begin to do
                        justice to this," and he slapped his hand
                        resoundingly upon the crumpled message from William W. Blithers.
                    The message had been sent by Mr. Blithers that morning, evidently just before
                        the sailing of the fast French steamer on which he and his wife were
                        crossing to Havre. It was directed to August Totten and read as follows:
                    "Tell our young friend to qualify statement to press at once.
                        Announce reconsideration of hasty denial and admit engagement. This is
                        imperative. I am not in mood for trifling. Have wired Paris papers that
                        engagement is settled. Have also wired daughter. The sooner we get together
                        on this the  better. Wait for my arrival in
                        Paris." It was signed "W. B."
                    "There's Blitherskite methods for you," said Dank.
                        "Speaking of pirates, he's the king of them all. Did you
                        ever hear of such confounded insolence? The damned "
                    "Wait a second, Dank," interrupted the Count.
                        "There is still another delectable communication for you, Robin. It
                        was directed to R. Schmidt and I took the liberty of opening it, as
                        authorised. Read it."
                    This was one of the ordinary "petits
                        bleu," dropped into the pneumatic tube letter-box at half-past
                        two that afternoon, shortly before Robin ventured forth on his interesting
                        expedition in quest of tea, and its contents were very crisp and to the
                        point:
                    "Pay no attention to any word you may have received from my father.
                        He cables a ridiculous command to me which I shall ignore. If you have
                        received a similar message I implore you to disregard it altogether.
                        Let's give each other a fighting chance."
                    It was signed "Maud Blithers."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII
                    THE PRODIGAL DAUGHTER
                    MR. BLITHERS received a marconigram
                        from the Jupiter when the ship was three days out from New
                        York. It was terse but sufficient.
                    "Have just had a glimpse of Prince Charming. He is very
                        good-looking. Love to mother. Maud."
                    He had barely settled into a state of complete satisfaction with himself over
                        the successful inauguration of a shrewd campaign to get the better of the
                        recalcitrant Maud and the incomprehensible Robin, when he was thrown into a
                        panic by the discovery that young Chandler Scoville had sailed for Europe
                        two days ahead of Maud and her elderly companion. The gratification of
                        knowing that the two young people had sailed away on the same vessel was not
                        in the least minimised by Maud's declaration that she intended to
                        remain in her cabin all the way across in order to avoid recognition, for he
                        knew her too well to believe it possible that she could stay out of sight
                        for any length of time, fair weather or foul. He even made a definite wager
                        with his wife that the two would become acquainted before they were half-way
                        across the Atlantic, and he made a bet with himself that nature would do the
                        rest. And now here came the staggering 
                        suspicion that Scoville's hasty departure was the result of a
                        pre-arranged plan between him and Maud, and that, after all, the silly girl
                        might spoil everything by marrying the confounded rascal before he could do
                        anything to prevent the catastrophe.
                    He even tried to engineer a scheme whereby young Scoville might be arrested
                        on landing and detained on one pretext or another until he could reach
                        Europe and put an end to the fellow's vain-glorious conniving.
                    But after consulting with his lawyers he abandoned the plan because they
                        succeeded in proving to him that Maud certainly would marry the fellow if
                        she had the least ground for believing that he was being oppressed on her
                        account. The cables were kept very busy, however, for the next twenty-four
                        hours, and it is certain that Scoville was a marked man from the moment he
                        landed.
                    Newspaper reporters camped on the trail of Mr. Blithers. He very obligingly
                        admitted that there was something in the report that his daughter was to
                        marry the Prince of Graustark, although he couldn't say anything
                        definite at the time. It wouldn't be fair to the parties concerned,
                        he explained. He gave away a great many boxes of cigars, and not a few of
                        the more sagacious reporters succeeded in getting at least three boxes by
                        interviewing him on as many separate occasions without being detected in the
                        act of repeating. Then came the disgusting denials in Paris by his daughter
                        and the ungrateful Prince. This was  too much.
                        He couldn't understand such unfilial behaviour on the part of one,
                        and he certainly couldn't forgive the ingratitude of the other.
                    Instead of waiting until Saturday to sail, he changed ships and left New York
                        on Friday, thereby gaining nothing by the move except relief from the
                        newspapers, for it appears that he gave up a five day boat for one that
                        could not do it under six. Still he was in active pursuit, which was a great
                        deal better than sitting in New York twiddling his thumbs or looking at his
                        watch and berating the pernicious hours that stood between him and Saturday
                        noon.
                    "There will be something doing in Europe the day I land there,
                        Lou," he said to his wife as they stood on deck and watched the
                        Statue of Liberty glide swiftly back toward Manhattan Island.
                        "I've got all the strings working smoothly. We've
                        got Groostock where it can't peep any louder than a freshly hatched
                        chicken, and we'll soon bring Maud to her senses. I tell you, Lou,
                        there is nothing that makes a girl forget her lofty ideals so quickly as the
                        chance to go shopping for princess gowns. She's seen the prince and
                        I'll bet she won't be so stubborn as she was before. And
                        if he has had a good, square look at her, if he's had a chance to
                        gaze into those eyes of hers, why, I well, I leave it to you. He
                        can't help getting off his high horse, can he?"
                    Mrs. Blithers favoured him with a smile. It was acknowledged that Maud was
                        the living image of what her mother had been at the age of twenty.
                    
                    "I hope the child hasn't made any silly promise to Channie
                        Scoville," she sighed.
                    "I've been thinking of that, Lou," said he, wiping
                        his brow, "and I've come to one conclusion: Scoville can
                        be bought off. He's as poor as Job and half a million will look
                        like the Bank of England to him I'll "
                    "You are not to attempt anything of the kind, Will," she
                        cried emphatically. "He would laugh in your face, poor as he is. He
                        comes from one of the best families in New York and "
                    "And I don't know where the best families need money any
                        more than they do in New York," he interrupted irritably.
                        "'Gad, if the worst families need it as badly as they do,
                        what must be the needs of the best? You leave it to me. It may be possible
                        to insult him with a half million, so if he feels that way about it
                        I'll apologise to him again with another half million.
                        You'll see that he won't be capable of resenting two
                        insults in succession. He'll "
                    "He isn't a fool," said she significantly.
                    "He'd be a fool if he refused to take "
                    "Are you losing your senses, Will?" she cried impatiently.
                        "Why should he accept a million to give up Maud, when he can be
                        sure of fifty times that much if he marries her?"
                    "But I'll cut Maud off with a dollar if she marries him, so
                        help me Moses!" exclaimed Mr. Blithers, but he went a little pale
                        just the same. "That will fix him!"
                    
                    "You are talking nonsense," said she sharply. He put his
                        fingers to his ears somewhat earlier than usual, and she turned away with a
                        tantalising laugh. "I'm going inside," and inside
                        she went. When he followed a few minutes later he was uncommonly meek.
                    "At any rate," he said, seating himself on the edge of a
                        chair in her parlour, "I guess those cablegrams this morning will
                        make 'em think twice before they go on denying things in the
                        newspapers."
                    "Maud will pay no attention to your cablegram, and, if I am any
                        judge of human nature, the Prince will laugh himself sick over the one you
                        sent to Count Quinnox. I told you not to send them. You are not dealing with
                        Wall Street. You are dealing with a girl and a boy who appear to have minds
                        of their own."
                    He ventured a superior sniff. "I guess you don't know as
                        much about Wall Street as you think you do."
                    "I only know that it puts its tail between its legs and howls every
                        time some one points a finger at it," she observed scornfully.
                    "Now let's be sensible, Lou," he said, sitting
                        back a little further in the chair, relieved to find that she was at least
                        willing to tolerate his presence, a matter on which he was in some doubt
                        when he entered the room. There were times when he was not quite certain
                        whether he or she was the brains of the family. "We'll
                        probably have a wireless from Maud before long. Then we'll have
                        something tangible to discuss.  By the way,
                        did I tell you that I've ordered some Dutch architects from Berlin
                        to go "
                    "The Dutch are from Holland," she said wearily.
                    " to go over to Growstock and give me a complete estimate on
                        repairing and remodelling the royal castle? I dare say we'll have
                        to do a good deal to the place. It's several hundred years old and
                        must require a lot of conveniences. Such as bath-rooms, electric lights,
                        steam heating appar "
                    "Better make haste slowly, Will," she said, and he ought to
                        have been warned by the light in her eye. "You are taking a great
                        deal for granted, aren't you?"
                    "It's got to be fixed up some time, so we might just as
                        well do it in the beginning," said he, failing utterly to grasp her
                        meaning. "Probably needs refurnishing from top to bottom, too, and
                        a new roof. I never saw a ruin yet that didn't leak. Remember those
                        castles on the Rhine? Will you ever forget how wet we got the day we went
                        through the one at "
                    "They were abandoned, tumble-down castles," she reminded
                        him.
                    "There isn't a castle in Europe that's any good in
                        a rain-storm," he proclaimed. "A mortgage can't
                        keep out the rain and that's what every one of 'em is
                        covered with. Why old man Quiddox himself told me that their castle had been
                        shot to pieces in one of the revolutions and "
                    "It is time you informed yourself about the country  you are trying to annex to the Blithers
                        estate," she said sarcastically. "I can assist you to some
                        extent if you will be good enough to listen. In the first place, the royal
                        castle at Edelweiss is one of the most substantial in the world. It has not
                        been allowed to fall into decay. In fact, it is inhabitated from top to
                        bottom by members of the royal household and the court, and I fancy they are
                        not the sort of people who take kindly to a wetting. It is not a ruin, Will,
                        such as you have been permitted to visit, but a magnificent building with
                        all of the modern improvements. The only wettings that the inmates sustain
                        are of a daily character and due entirely to voluntary association with
                        porcelain bath-tubs and nickle-plated showers, and they never get anything
                        wet but their skins. As for the furnishings, I can assure you that the
                        entire Blithers fortune could not replace them if they were to be destroyed
                        by fire or pillage. They are priceless and they are unique. I have read that
                        the hangings in the bed-chamber of the late Princess Yetive are the most
                        wonderful in the whole world. The throne chair in the great audience chamber
                        is of solid gold and weighs nearly three thousand pounds. It is studded with
                        diamonds, rubies "
                    "Great Scott, Lou, where did you learn all this?" he
                        gasped, his eyes bulging.
                    " emeralds and other precious stones. There is one huge carpet in
                        the royal drawing-room that the Czar of Russia is said to have offered one
                        hundred  thousand pounds for and the offer was
                        scorned. The park surrounding the castle is said to be beautiful beyond the
                        power of description. The "
                    "I asked you where you got all this information. Can't you
                        answer me?"
                    "I obtained all this and a great deal more from a lady who spent a
                        year or two inside the castle walls. I refer to Mrs. Truxton King, who might
                        have told you as much if you had possessed the intelligence to
                        inquire."
                    "Gee whiz!" exclaimed Mr. Blithers, going back to his
                        buoyant boyhood days for an adequate expression. "What a wonder you
                        are, Lou. But that's the woman of it, always getting at the inside
                        of a thing while a man is standing around looking at the outside. Say, but
                        won't it make a wonderful home for you and me to spend a peaceful
                        old age in when we get ready to lay aside the "
                    He stopped short, for she had arisen and was standing over him with a
                        quivering forefinger levelled at his nose, and not more than six inches away
                        from it, her handsome eyes flashing with fury.
                    "You may walk in where angels fear to tread, but you will walk
                        alone, Will Blithers. I shall not be with you, and you may as well
                        understand it now. I've told you a hundred times that money
                        isn't everything, and it is as cheap as dirt when you put it
                        alongside of tradition, honour, pride and loyalty. Those Graustarkians would
                        take you by the nape of the neck and march you out of their castle so quick
                        that your head  would swim. You may be able to
                        buy their prince for Maudie to exhibit around the country, but you
                        can't buy the intelligence of the people. They won't have
                        you at any price and they won't have me, so there is the situation
                        in a nutshell. They will hate Maudie, of course, but they will endure her
                        for obvious reasons. They may even come to love and respect her in the end,
                        for she is worthy. But as for you and me, William, with all our money, we
                        will find every hand against us even the hand of our daughter, I prophesy. I
                        am not saying that I would regret seeing Maud the Princess of Graustark far
                        from it. But I do say that you and I will be expected to know our places. If
                        you attempt to spend your declining years in the castle at Edelweiss you
                        will find them reduced to days, and short ones at that. The people of
                        Graustark will see to it that you die before your time."
                    "Bosh!" said Mr. Blithers. "Mind if I
                        smoke?" He took out a cigar and began searching for matches.
                    "No," she said, "I don't mind. It is a
                        sign that you need something to steady your nerves. I know you, Will
                        Blithers. You don't want to smoke. You want to gain a few minutes
                        of time, that's all."
                    He lit a cigar. "Right you are," was his unexpected
                        admission. "I wonder if you really have the right idea about this
                        business. What objection could any one have to a poor, tired old man sitting
                        in front of his daughter's fireside and and playing with her
                        kiddies? It seems to me that "
                    
                    "You will never be a tired old man, that's the
                        trouble," she said, instantly touched.
                    "Oh, yes, I will," said he slowly. "I'm
                        rather looking forward to it, too."
                    "It will be much nicer to have the kiddies come to your own
                        fireside, Will. I used to enjoy nothing better than going to spend a few
                        days with my grandfather."
                    "But what's the use of going to all this trouble and
                        expense if we are not to enjoy some of the fruits?" he protested,
                        making a determined stand. "If these people can't be
                        grateful to the man who helps 'em out in their time of trouble, and
                        who goes out of his way to present 'em with a bright, capable
                        posterity, I'd like to know what in thunder gratitude really
                        means."
                    "Oh, there isn't such a thing as gratitude," she
                        said. "Obligation, yes, and ingratitude most certainly, but
                        gratitude, no. You are in a position to know that gratitude doesn't
                        exist. Are you forgetting the private advices we already have had from
                        Graustark? Does it indicate that the people are grateful? There are moments
                        when I fear that we are actually placing Maud's life in peril, and
                        I have had some wretched dreams. They do not want her. They speak of exile
                        for the Prince if he marries her. And now I repeat what I have said before:
                        the people of Graustark must have an opportunity to see and become
                        acquainted with Maud before the marriage is definitely arranged. I will not
                        have my  daughter cast into a den of lions,
                        Will, for that is what it may amount to. The people will adore
                        her- they will welcome her with open arms if they are
                        given the chance. But they will have none of her if she is forced upon them
                        in the way you propose."
                    "I'll I'll think it over," said Mr.
                        Blithers, and then discovered that his cigar had gone out. "I think
                        I'll go on deck and smoke, Lou. Makes it stuffy in here.
                        We'll lunch in the restaurant at half-past one, eh?"
                    "Think hard, Will," she recommended, with a smile.
                    "I'll do that," he said, "but
                        there's nothing on earth that can alter my determination to make
                        Maud the Princess of Groostork. That's
                        settled."
                    "Graustark, Will."
                    "Well, whatever it is," said he, and departed.
                    He did think hard, but not so much about a regal home for aged people as
                        about Channie Scoville who had now become a positive menace to all of his
                        well-ordered and costly plans. The principal subject for thought just now
                        was not Graustark but this conniving young gentleman who stood ready to make
                        a terrible mess of posterity. Mr. Blithers was sufficiently fair-minded to
                        concede that the fellow was good-looking, well-bred and clever, just the
                        sort of chap that any girl might fall in love with like a shot. As a matter
                        of fact, he once had admired Scoville, but that was before he came to look
                        upon him as a menace. He would make a capital husband for any girl in the
                             world, except Maud. He could say that
                        much for him, without reserve.
                    He thought hard until half-past one and then went to the wireless office,
                        where he wrote out a message in cipher and directed the operator to waste no
                        time in relaying it to his offices in Paris. His wife was right. It would be
                        the height of folly to offer Scoville money and it would be even worse to
                        inspire the temporary imprisonment of the young man.
                    But there was a splendid alternative. He could manage to have his own
                        daughter abducted, chaperon included, and held for ransom!
                    The more he thought of it the better it seemed to him, and so he sent a
                        cipher message that was destined to throw his Paris managers into a state of
                        agitation that cannot possibly be measured by words. In brief, he instructed
                        them to engage a few peaceable, trust-worthy and positively respectable
                        gentlemen, he was particularly exacting on the score of gentility, with
                        orders to abduct the young lady and hold her in restraint until he arrived
                        and arranged for her liberation! They were to do the deed without making any
                        fuss about it, but at the same time they were to do it effectually.
                    He had the foresight to suggest that the job should be undertaken by the very
                        detective agency he had employed to shadow young Scoville and also to keep
                        an eye on Maud. Naturally, she was never to know the truth about the matter.
                        She was to believe that her father came up with a huge sum in the shape of
                        ransom,  no questions asked. He also
                        remembered in time and added the imperative command that she was to be
                        confined in clean, comfortable quarters and given the best of nourishment.
                        But, above all else, it was to be managed in a decidedly realistic way, for
                        Maud was a keen-witted creature who would see through the smallest crack in
                        the conspiracy if there was a single false movement on the part of the
                        plotters. It is also worthy of mention that Mrs. Blithers was never decidedly never to know the truth about the matter.
                    He went in to luncheon in a very amiable, even docile frame of mind.
                    "I've thought the matter over, Lou," he said,
                        "and I guess you are right, after all. We will make all the repairs
                        necessary, but we won't consider living in it ourselves.
                        We'll return good for evil and live in a hotel when we go to visit
                        the royal family. As for "
                    "I meant that you were to think hard before attempting to force Maud
                        upon Prince Robin's subjects without preparing them for the
                        "
                    "I thought of that, too," he interrupted cheerfully.
                        "I'm not going to cast my only child into the den of
                        lions, so that's the end of it. Have you given the order, my
                        dear?"
                    "No," she said; "for I knew you would change it
                        when you came in."
                    Late that evening he had a reply from his Paris managers. They inquired if he
                        was responsible for the message they had received. It was a ticklish job  and they wanted to be sure that the message
                        was genuine. He wired back that he was the sender and to go ahead. The next
                        morning they notified him that his instructions would be carried out as
                        expeditiously as possible.
                    He displayed such a beaming countenance all that day that his wife finally
                        demanded an explanation. It wasn't like him to beam when he was
                        worried about anything, and she wanted to know what had come over him.
                    "It's the sea-air, Lou," he exclaimed glibly.
                        "It always makes me feel like a fighting-cock. I "
                    "Rubbish! You detest the sea-air. It makes you feel like fighting, I
                        grant, but not like a fighting-cock."
                    "There you go, trying to tell me how I feel. I've never
                        known any one like you, Lou. I can't say a word that "
                    "Have you had any news from Maud?" she broke in
                        suspiciously.
                    "Not a word," said he.
                    "What have you done to Channie Scoville?" she questioned,
                        fixing him with an accusing eye.
                    "Not a thing," said he.
                    "Then, what is it?"
                    "You won't believe me if I tell you," said he
                        warily.
                    "Yes, I will."
                    "No, you won't."
                    
                    "Tell me this instant why you've been grinning like
                         Cheshire cat all day."
                    "It's the sea-air," said he, and then: "I
                        said you wouldn't believe me, didn't I?"
                    "Do you think I'm a fool, Will Blithers?" she
                        flashed, and did not wait for an answer. He chuckled to himself as she swept
                        imperiously out of sight around a corner of the deck-building.
                    He was up bright and early the next morning, tingling with anticipation.
                        There ought to be word from Paris before noon, and it might come earlier. He
                        kept pretty close to the wireless operator's office, and was
                        particularly attentive to the spitting crackle of the instrument.
                    About eleven o'clock an incomprehensibly long message began to
                        rattle out of the air. He contained himself in patience for the matter of
                        half an hour or longer, and then, as the clatter continued without
                        cessation, he got up and made his way to the door of the operator's
                        office.
                    "What is it? The history of England?" he demanded
                        sarcastically.
                    "Message for you, Mr. Blithers. It's a long one and
                        I'm having a hard time picking it up. Everybody seems to be talking
                        at once. Do you want the baseball scores, Mr. Blithers?"
                    "Not unless they come in cipher," said Mr. Blithers acidly.
                    "Some of 'em do. Six to nothing in favor of the  Giants, two to nothing Here we are at last.
                        I've picked up the Mauretania again.
                        She's relaying."
                    Mr. Blithers sat down on the steps and looked at his watch. It would be five
                        o'clock in Paris. He wondered if they were giving Maud her
                        afternoon tea, and then choked up with a sudden pity for the terrified
                        captive. It was all he could do to keep from jumping up and ordering the
                        operator to drop everything and take a message countermanding his inhuman
                        instructions to those asses in Paris. Tears gushed from his eyes. He brushed
                        them away angrily and tried to convince himself that it served Maud right
                        for being so obstinate. Still the tears came. The corners of his mouth
                        drooped and his chin began to quiver. It was too much! The poor child was 
                    But just then the operator sat back with a sigh of relief, mopped his brow,
                        and said:
                    "Good thing you're a rich man, Mr. Blithers. It came
                        collect and "
                    "Never mind," blurted Mr. Blithers. "Hand it
                        over."
                    There were four sheets of writing at some outlandish price per word, but what
                        cared he? He wanted to get back to his stateroom and his cipher code as
                        quickly but his eyes almost started from his head as he took in the name at
                        the bottom of the message. It was "Maud."
                    He did not require the cipher book. A fourth reader child could have read the
                        message without a  halt. Maud had taken his
                        request literally. He had asked her to send him a nice long message, but he
                        did not expect her to make a four-page letter of it. She was paying him out
                        with a vengeance!
                    He took the precaution to read it before handing it over to his wife, to whom
                        it was addressed in conjunction with himself:
                    "Dear father and mother," it began (and he looked at the
                        date line again to make sure it was from Paris) "in reply to your
                        esteemed favour of the nineteenth, or possibly the twentieth, I beg to
                        inform you that I arrived safely in Paris as per schedule. Regarding the
                        voyage, it was delightful. We had one or two rough days. The rest of the
                        time it was perfectly heavenly. I met two or three interesting and amusing
                        people on board and they made the time pass most agreeably. I think I wired
                        you that I had a glimpse of a certain person. On my arrival in Paris I was
                        met at the station by friends and taken at once to the small, exclusive
                        hotel where they are stopping for the summer. It is so small and exclusive
                        that I'm sure you have never heard of it. I may as well tell you
                        that I have seen Channie, you know who I mean, Chandler Scoville, and he has
                        been very nice to me. Concerning your suggestion that I reconsider the
                        statement issued to the press, I beg to state that I don't see any
                        sense in taking the world into my confidence any farther than it has been
                        taken already, if that is grammatically correct. I have also sent word to a
                        certain person that he is not to pay any attention  to the report that we are likely to change our minds in order
                        to help out the greedy newspapers who don't appear to know when
                        they have had enough. I hope that the voyage will benefit both of you as
                        much as it did me. If I felt any better than I do now I'd call for
                        the police as a precaution. Let me suggest that you try the chicken a la
                        Bombardier in the Ritz restaurant. I found it delicious. I daresay they
                        serve it as nicely on your ship as they do on the Jupiter.
                        as the management is the same. Of course one never can tell about chefs. My
                        plans are a trifle indefinite. I may leave here at any moment. It is very
                        hot and muggy and nearly every one is skipping off to the mountains or
                        seashore. If I should happen to be away from Paris when you arrive
                        don't worry about me. I shall be all right and in safe hands. I
                        will let you know where I am just as soon as I get settled somewhere. I must
                        go where it is quiet and peaceful. I am so distressed over what has occurred
                        that I don't feel as though I could ever be seen in public again
                        without a thick veil and a pair of goggles. I have plenty of money for
                        immediate use, but you might deposit something to my credit at the Credit
                        Lyonnais as I haven't the least idea how long I shall stay over
                        here. Miranda is well and is taking good care of me. She seldom lets me out
                        of her sight if that is any comfort to you. I hope you will forgive the
                        brevity of this communication and believe me when I say that it is not lack
                        of love for you both that curtails its length but the abominably hot
                        weather. With  endless love from your devoted
                        daughter Maud."
                    The tears had dried in Mr. Blithers' eyes but he wiped them time and
                        again as he read this amazing letter, this staggering exhibition of
                        prodigality. He swore a little at first, but toward the end even that
                        prerogative failed him. He set out in quest of his wife. Not that he
                        expected her to say any more than he had said, but that he wanted her to see
                        at a glance what kind of a child she had brought into the world and to
                        forever hold her peace in future when he undertook to speak his mind.
                    He could not understand why his wife laughed softly to herself as she read,
                        and he looked on in simple amazement when she deliberately undertook to
                        count the words. She counted them in a whisper and he couldn't
                        stand it. He went down where the children were shrieking over a game of
                        quoits and felt singularly peaceful and undisturbed.
                    It was nearly bed-time before word came from his managers in Paris. Bed-time
                        had no meaning for him after he had worked out the message by the code. It
                        is true that he observed a life-long custom and went to bed, but he did not
                        do it for the purpose of going to sleep.
                    "Your daughter has disappeared from Paris. All efforts to locate her
                        have failed. Friends says she left ostensibly for the Pyrenees but inquiries
                        at stations and along line fail to reveal trace of her. Scoville still here
                        and apparently in the dark. He is being watched. Her companion and maid left
                        with her last  night. Prince of Graustark and
                        party left for Edelweiss to-day."
                    So read the message from Paris.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVIII
                    A WORD OF ENCOURAGEMENT
                    ONE usually has breakfast on the porch of the Hotel
                        Schweizerhof at Interlaken. It is not the most fashionable hostelry in the
                        quaint little town at the head of the Lake of Thun, but it is of an
                        excellent character, and the rolls and honey to be had with one's
                        breakfast can not be surpassed in the Bernese Oberland. Straight ahead lies
                        one of the most magnificent prospects in all the world: an unobstructed view
                        of the snow-thatched Jungfrau, miles away, gleaming white and jagged against
                        an azure sky, suggesting warmth instead of chill, grandeur instead of
                        terror. Looking up the valley one might be led to say that an
                        hour's ramble would take him to the crest of that shining peak, and
                        yet some men have made a life's journey of it. Others have turned
                        back in time.
                    One has a whiff of fragrant woodlands and serene hay-cocks, a breath of cool
                        air from the Jungfrau's snows, a sniff of delectable bacon and
                        toast and a zest for breakfast. And one sets about it with interest, with
                        the breakfast of the next day as a thing to look forward to.
                    R. Schmidt sat facing the dejected Boske Dank. His eyes were dancing with the
                        joy of living, and nothing better can be said of a man's character
                        than that  he is gay and happy at
                        breakfast-time. He who wakes up, refreshed and buoyant, and eager for the
                        day's adventure, is indeed a child of nature. He will never grow
                        old and crabbed; he will grip the hand of death when the time comes with the
                        unconquered zeal that makes the grim reaper despise himself for the
                        advantage he takes of youth.
                    "Well, here we are and in spite of that, where are we?"
                        said Dank, who saw nothing beautiful in the smile of any early morn.
                        "I mean to say, what have we to show for our pains? We sneak into
                        this God-forsaken hamlet, surrounded on all sides by abominations in the
                        shape of tourists, and at the end of twenty-four hours we discover that the
                        fair Miss Guile has played us a shabby trick. I daresay she is laughing
                        herself sick over the whole business."
                    "Which is more than you can say for yourself, Boske," said
                        Robin blithely. "Brace up! All is not lost. We'll wait
                        here a day or two longer and then well, I don't know what
                        we'll do then."
                    "She never intended to come here at all," said Dank, filled
                        with resentment. "It was a trick to get rid of us. She "
                    "Be honest, old chap and say that it was a trick to get rid of me. Us is entirely too plural. But I haven't lost
                        heart. She'll turn up yet."
                    "Count Quinnox is in despair over this extraordinary whim of yours,
                        highness. He is really ill in bed this morning. I "
                    "I'll run up and see him after breakfast," cried
                        the  Prince, genuinely concerned.
                        "I'm sorry he is taking it so seriously."
                    "He feels that we should be at home instead of dawdling about the
                        "
                    "That reminds me, Dank," broke in the Prince, fresh
                        happiness in his smile; "I've decided that home is the
                        place for you and the Count and Gourou too. I'm perfectly able to
                        take care of myself, with some assistance from Hobbs, and I don't
                        see any necessity for you three to remain with me any longer. I'll
                        tell the Count that you all may start for Vienna tonight. You connect with
                        the Orient express at "
                    "Are you mad, highness?" cried Dank, startled out of his
                        dejection. "What you speak of is impossible utterly impossible. We
                        cannot leave you. We were delegated to escort you "
                    "I understand all of that perfectly, Dank," interrupted
                        Robin, suddenly embarrassed, "but don't you see how
                        infernally awkward it will be for me if Miss Guile does appear, according to
                        plan? She will find me body-guarded, so to speak, by three surly, scowling
                        individuals whose presence I cannot explain to save my soul, unless I tell
                        the truth, and I'm not yet ready to do that. Can't you see
                        what I mean? How am I to explain the three of you? A hawk-eyed triumvirate
                        that camps on my trail from morn till night and refuses to budge!
                        She'll suspect something, old fellow, and well, I certainly will
                        feel more comfortable if I'm not watched for the next few
                        days."
                    "That's the point, highness. You've just got to
                             be watched for the next few days. We
                        would never dare to show our faces in Graustark again if we allowed anything
                        to happen to you while you are under our care. You are a sacred charge. We
                        must return you to Graustark as er inviolate as when you departed. We we
                        couldn't think of subjecting you to the peril of a that is to say,
                        it might prove fatal. Graustark, in that event, would be justified in
                        hanging two of her foremost citizens and yours truly from gibbets designed
                        especially for the blackest of traitors."
                    "I see, Dank. If I find happiness, you are almost sure to find
                        disgrace and death, eh? It doesn't seem a fair division, does it? I
                        suppose you all feel that the worst thing that can possibly happen is for me
                        to find happiness."
                    "If I were the Prince of Graustark I should first think of the
                        happiness of my subjects. I would not offend."
                    "Well put, Boske, but fortunately you are not the Prince. I
                        sometimes wish that you were. It would relieve me of a tremendous
                        responsibility. I am not mean enough, however, to wish a crown upon you, old
                        fellow. You are lucky to be who and what you are. No one cares what you do,
                        so long as you are honourable about it. With me it is different. I have to
                        be watched day and night in order to be kept from doing what all the rest of
                        the world looks upon as honourable."
                    
                    "I implore you, highness, to give up this mad enterprise and return
                        to your people as "
                    "There is only one person in the world who can stop me now,
                        Dank."
                    "And she isn't likely to do so, worse luck," was
                        the other's complaint.
                    "When she tells me to go about my business, I'll go, but
                        not until then. Don't you like honey, Dank?"
                    "No," said Dank savagely. "I hate it." He
                        leaned back in his chair and glowered upon the innocent, placid Jungfrau.
                        The Prince ate in silence. "May I be permitted a question,
                        highness?"
                    "All you like, Boske. You are my best friend. Go ahead."
                    "Did you see Miss Guile after that visit to St. Cloud and to the
                        police station?"
                    "No. Evidently she was frightened out of her boots by the Hawkshaws.
                        I don't blame her, do you?"
                    "And you've had no word from her?"
                    "None. Now you are going to ask what reason I have for believing
                        that she will come to Interlaken. Well, I can't answer that
                        question. I think she'll come, that's all."
                    "Do you think she is in love with you?"
                    "Ah, my dear fellow, you are asking me to answer my own
                        prayer," said Robin, without a sign of resentment in his manner.
                        "I'm praying that she isn't altogether
                        indifferent. By the way, it is my turn to ask questions. Are you still in
                        love with her?"
                    
                    "I am proud to say that you are more in my prayers that
                        she," said Dank, with a profound sigh. "Nothing could
                        please me more than to be the one to save my prince from disaster, even if
                        it meant the sacrifice of self. My only prayer is that you may be spared,
                        sir, and I taken in your place."
                    "That was a neat answer, 'pon my soul," cried the
                        Prince admiringly. "You Hello, who is this approaching? It is no
                        other than the great Gourou himself, the king of sleuths, as they say in the
                        books I used to read. Good morning, Baron."
                    The sharp-visaged little Minister of Police came up to the table and fixed an
                        accusing eye upon his sovereign, the literal truth, for he had the other eye
                        closed in a protracted wink.
                    "I regret to inform your majesty that the enemy is upon
                        us," he said. "I fear that our retreat is cut off. Nothing
                        remains save "
                    "She has arrived?" cried the Prince eagerly.
                    "She has," said the Baron. "Bag and baggage, and
                        armed to the eyes. Each eye is a gatling-gun, each lip a lunette behind
                        which lies an unconquerable legion of smiles and rows of ivory bayonets,
                        each ear a hardy spy, and every nut-brown strand a covetous dastard on the
                        warpath not for a scalp but for a crown. Napoleon was never so well prepared
                        for battle as she, nor Troy so firmly fortified. Yes, highness, the foe is
                        at our gates. We must to arms!"
                    "Where is she?" demanded Robin, unimpressed by this glowing
                        panegyric.
                    
                    "At this instant, sir, I fancy she is rallying her forces in the
                        very face of a helpless mirror. In other words, she is preparing for the
                        fray. She is dressing."
                    "The devil! How dare you pry into the secret "
                    "Abhorrent thought! I deduce, nothing more. Her maid loses herself
                        in the halls while attempting to respond to the call for re-inforcements.
                        She accosts a gentleman of whom she inquires the way. The gentleman informs
                        her she is on the third, not the second etage, and she
                        scurries away simpering, but not before confiding to me the aforesaid
                        gentleman that her mistress will give her fits for being late with her hair,
                        whatever that may signify. So, you see, I do not stoop to keyholes but put
                        my wits to work instead."
                    "When did she arrive?"
                    "She came last night via Milan."
                    "From Milan?" cried Robin, astonished.
                    "A roundabout way, I'll admit," said the Baron,
                        drily, "and tortuous in these hot days, but admirably suited to a
                        purpose. I should say that she was bent on throwing some one off the
                        track."
                    "And yet she came!" cried the Prince, in exultation.
                        "She wanted to come, after all, now didn't she,
                        Dank?" He gave the lieutenant a look of triumph.
                    "She is more dangerous than I thought," said the guardsman
                        mournfully.
                    "Sit down, Baron," commanded the Prince. "I want
                        to lay down the law to all of you. You three 
                        will have to move on to Graustark and leave me to look out for myself. I
                        will not have Miss Guile "
                    "No!" exclaimed the Baron, with unusual vehemence.
                        "I expected you to propose something of the kind, and I am obliged
                        to confess to you that we have discussed the contingency in advance. We will
                        not leave you. That is final. You may depose us, exile us, curse us or
                        anything you like, but still we shall remain true to the duty we owe to our
                        country. We stay here, Prince Robin, just so long as you are content to
                        remain."
                    Robin's face was very red. "You shame me, Baron,"
                        he said simply. "I am sorry that I spoke as I did. You are my
                        friends, my loyal friends, and I would have humbled you in the eyes of my
                        people. I beg your pardon, and yours, Boske. After all, I am only a prince
                        and a prince is dependent on the loyalty of such as you. I take back all
                        that I said."
                    The Baron laid a kindly hand on the young man's shoulder.
                        "I was rough, highness, in my speech just now, but you will
                        understand that I was moved to "
                    "I know, Baron. It was the only way to fetch me up sharp. No apology
                        is required. God bless you."
                    "Now I have a suggestion of my own to offer," said the
                        Baron, taking a seat at the end of the table. "I confess that Miss
                        Guile may not be favourably impressed by the constant attendance of three
                        ablebodied nurses, and, as she happens to be no fool, it is reasonably
                        certain that she will grasp the significance of our assiduity. Now I propose
                        that the  Count, Dank and myself efface
                        ourselves as completely as possible during the rest of our enforced stay in
                        Interlaken. I propose that we take quarters in another hotel and leave you
                        and Hobbs to the tender mercies of the enemy. It seems to me that "
                    "Good!" cried Robin. "That's the ticket!
                        I quite agree to that, Baron."
                    Dank was prepared to object but a dark look from Gourou silenced him.
                        "I've talked it over with the Count and he
                        acquiesces," went on the Baron. "We recognise the futility
                        of trying to induce you to leave at once for Graustark, and we are now
                        content to trust Providence to watch over and protect you against a foe
                        whose motives may in time become transparent, even to the blind."
                    The irony in the remark was not lost on Robin. He flushed angrily but held
                        his tongue.
                    Ten o'clock found the three gentlemen, so classified by Hobbs, out
                        of the Schweizerhof and arranging for accommodations at the Regina Hotel
                        Jungfraublick, perched on an eminence overlooking the valley and some
                        distance removed from the temporary abode of the Prince. Their departure
                        from the hotel in the Hoheweg was accomplished without detection by Miss
                        Guile or her friends, and, to all intents and purposes, Robin was alone and
                        unattended when he sat down on the porch near the telescope to await the
                        first appearance of the enchanting foe. He was somewhat puzzled by the
                        strange submissiveness of his companions. Deep down in his mind lurked the
                        disquieting  suspicion that they were
                        conniving to get the better of the lovely temptress by some sly and secret
                        bit of strategy. What was back of the wily Baron's motive? Why were
                        they now content to let him take the bit in his teeth and run wherever he
                        would? What had become of their anxiety, their eagerness to drag him off to
                        Graustark by the first train? There was food for reflection in the tranquil
                        capitulation of the defenders. Were they acting under fresh instructions
                        from Edelweiss? Had the Prime Minister directed them to put no further
                        obstacle in front of the great Blithers invasion? Or and he scowled darkly
                        at the thought was there a plan afoot to overcome the dangerous Miss Guile
                        by means more sinister than subtle?
                    Enlightenment came unexpectedly and with a shock to his composure. He had
                        observed the three spirited saddlehorses near the entrance of the hotel, in
                        charge of two stable-boys, but had regarded them only as splendid specimens
                        of equine aristocracy. It had not entered his mind to look upon them as
                        agents of despair.
                    Two people emerged from the door and, passing by without so much as a glance
                        in his direction, made their way to the mounting block. Robin's
                        heart went down to his boots. Bedelia, a graceful figure in a smart riding
                        habit, was laughing blithely over a soft-spoken remark that her companion
                        had made as they were crossing the porch. And that companion was no other
                        than the tall, good-looking fellow who had 
                        met her at Cherbourg! The Prince, stunned and incredulous, watched them
                        mount their horses and canter away, followed by a groom who seemed to have
                        sprung up from nowhere.
                    "Good morning, Mr. Schmidt," spoke a voice, and, still
                        bewildered, he whirled, hat in hand, to confront Mrs. Gaston. "Did
                        I startle you?"
                    He bowed stiffly over the hand she held out for him to clasp, and murmured
                        something about being proof against any surprise. The colour was slowly
                        returning to his face, and his smile was as engaging as ever despite the
                        bitterness that filled his soul. Here was a pretty trick to play on a
                        fellow! Here was a slap in the face!
                    "Isn't it a glorious morning? And how wonderful she is in
                        this gorgeous sunlight," went on Mrs. Gaston, in what may be
                        described as a hurried, nervous manner.
                    "I had the briefest glimpse of her," mumbled Robin.
                        "When did she come?"
                    "Centuries and centuries ago, Mr. Schmidt," said she, with
                        a smile. "I was speaking of the Jungfrau."
                    "Oh!" he exclaimed, flushing. "I thought you er
                        yes, of course! Really quite wonderful. I have heard it said that she never
                        removes her night-cap, but always greets the dawn in spotless ahem! Of
                        course you understand that I am speaking of the Jungfrau," he
                        floundered.
                    "Naturally, Mr. Schmidt. And so you came, after  all. We were afraid you might have concluded to alter your
                        plans. Miss Guile will be delighted."
                    He appeared grateful for the promise. "I have been here for three
                        days, Mrs. Gaston. You were delayed in leaving Paris?"
                    "Yes," she said, and changed the subject. "The
                        riding is quite good, I understand. They are off for
                        Lauterbrunnen."
                    "I see," said he. "There is a splendid inn there,
                        I am told."
                    "They will return here for luncheon, of course," she said,
                        raising her eyebrows slightly. His heart became a trifle lighter at this.
                        "Mr. White is a life-long friend and acquaintance of the
                        family," she volunteered, apropos of nothing.
                    "Oh, his name is White?" with a quiet laugh.
                    "If you have nothing better to do, Mr. Schmidt, why not come with me
                        to the Kursaal? The morning concert will begin shortly, and I "
                    "I think you will find that the band plays in the square across the
                        way, Mrs. Gaston, and not in the Casino. At least, that has been the
                        programme for the last two mornings."
                    "Nevertheless, there is a concert at the Casino today," she
                        informed him. "Will you come?"
                    "Gladly," he replied, and they set off for the Kursaal. He
                        found seats in the half-empty pavillion and prepared to listen to the music,
                        although his real interest was following the narrow highway to Lauterbrunnen
                        and the Staubbach.
                    
                    "This is to be a special concert given at the request of the Grand
                        Duke who, I hear, is leaving this afternoon for Berne."
                    "The Grand Duke? I was not aware of the presence of
                        royalty," said he in surprise.
                    "No? He has been here for three days, but at another hotel. The
                        Grand Duke Paulus and his family, you know."
                    Robin shot a swift, apprehensive glance about the big enclosure, sweeping the
                        raised circle from end to end. On the opposite side of the pavillion he
                        discovered the space reserved for the distinguished party. Although he was
                        far removed from that section he sank deeper into his chair and found one
                        pretext after another to screen his face from view. He did know the Grand
                        Duke Paulus and the Grand Duke knew him, which was even more to the point.
                    The Prince of Graustark had been a prime favourite of the great man since his
                        knickerbocker days. Twice as a boy he had visited in the ducal palace, far
                        distant from Graustark, and at the time of his own coronation the Grand Duke
                        and his sons had come to the castle in Edelweiss for a full month's
                        stay. They knew him well and they would recognise him at a glance. At this
                        particular time the last thing on earth that he desired was to be hailed as
                        a royal prince.
                    Never, in all his life, had he known the sun to penetrate so brightly into
                        shadows as it did to-day. He felt that he was sitting in a perfect glare of
                        light  and that every feature of his face was
                        clear to the most distant observer.
                    He was on the point of making an excuse to leave the place when the ducal
                        party came sauntering down the aisle on their way to the reserved section.
                        Every one stood up, the band played, the Grand Duke bowed to the right and
                        to the left, and escape was cut off. Robin could only stand with averted
                        face and direct mild execrations at the sunlight that had seemed so glorious
                        at breakfast-time.
                    "He is a splendid-looking man, isn't he?" Mrs.
                        Gaston was saying. She was gazing in rapt admiration upon the royal group.
                    "He is, indeed," said Robin, resolutely scanning a
                        programme, which he continued to hold before his face. When he sat down
                        again, it was with his back to the band. "I don't like to
                        watch the conductors," he explained. "They do such foolish
                        things, you know."
                    Mrs. Gaston was eyeing him curiously. He was bitterly conscious of a crimson
                        cheek. In silence they listened to the first number. While the applause was
                        at its height, Mrs. Gaston leaned forward and said to him:
                    "I am afraid you are not enjoying the music, Mr. Schmidt. What is on
                        your mind?"
                    He started. "I I really, Mrs. Gaston, I am enjoying it. I "
                    "Your mind has gone horse-back riding, I fear. At present it is
                        between here and Lauterbrunnen, jogging beside that roaring little torrent
                        that "
                    
                    "I don't mind confessing that you are quite
                        right," said he frankly. "And I may add that the music
                        makes me so blue that I'd like to jump into that roaring torrent
                        and and swim out again, I suppose," he concluded, with a sheepish
                        grin.
                    "You are in love."
                    "I am," he confessed.
                    She laid her hand upon his. Her eyes were wide with eagerness.
                        "Would it drive away the blues if I were to tell you that you have
                        a chance to win her?"
                    He felt his head spinning. "If if I could believe that that
                        " he began, and choked up with the rush of emotion that swept
                        through him.
                    "She is a strange girl. She will marry for love alone. Her father is
                        determined that she shall marry a royal prince. That much I may confess to
                        you. She has defied her father, Mr. Schmidt. She will marry for love, and I
                        believe it is in your power to awaken love in that adorable heart of hers.
                        You "
                    "For God's sake, Mrs. Gaston, tell me tell me, has she
                        breathed a word to you that "
                    "Not a single word. But I know her well. I have known her since she
                        was a baby, and I can read the soul that looks out through those lovely
                        eyes. Knowing her so well, I may say to you oh, it must be in the strictest
                        confidence! that you have a chance. And if you win her love, you will have the greatest treasure in all the world. She but,
                        look! The Grand Duke is leaving. He "
                    "I don't care what becomes of the Grand Duke,"  he burst out. "Tell me more. Tell me
                        how you look into her soul, and tell me what you see "
                    "Not now, sir. I have said enough. I have given you the sign of
                        hope. It remains with you to make the most of it."
                    "But you you don't know anything about me. I may be the
                        veriest adventurer, the most unworthy of all "
                    "I think, Mr. Schmidt, that I know you pretty well. I do not require
                        the aid of Diogenes' lantern to see an honest man. I am responsible
                        for her welfare. She has been placed under my protection. For twenty years I
                        have adored her. I am not likely to encourage an adventurer."
                    "I must be honest with you, Mrs. Gaston," he said suddenly.
                        "I am not "
                    She held up her hand. "Mr. Totten has informed me that you are a
                        life-long friend of Mrs. Truxton King. I cabled to her from Paris. There is
                        no more to be said."
                    His face fell. "Did she tell you everything?"
                    "She said no more than that R. Schmidt is the finest boy in all the
                        world." Suddenly her face paled. "You are never never to breathe a word of this to to Bedelia,"
                        she whispered.
                    "But her father? What will he say to "
                    "Her father has said all that can be said," she broke in
                        quietly. "He cannot force her to marry the man he has selected. She
                        will marry the man she  loves. Come now! Let
                        us go. I am tired of the music."
                    "Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Gaston," he cried, with shining
                        eyes. "God bless you!"
                    She gave him a queer look. "You must not think that your task is an
                        easy one," she said meaningly. "There are other men in the
                        world, you know."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIX
                    "WHAT WILL MY PEOPLE DO!"
                    THE Grand Duke and his party left Interlaken by special
                        train early in the afternoon, and great was Robin's relief when
                        Hobbs returned with the word that they were safely on their way to the
                        capital of Switzerland. He emerged from the seclusion of his room, where he
                        had been in hiding since noon, and set out for a walk through the town. His
                        head was high and his stride jaunty, for his heart was like a cork. People
                        stared after him with smiles of admiration, and never a cocher' passed him by without a genial, inviting tilt of
                        the eyebrow and a tentative pull at the reins, only to meet with a pleasant
                        shake of the head or the negative flourish of a bamboo cane.
                    Night came and with it the silvery glow of moon-light across the hoary headed
                        queen of the Oberland. When Robin came out from dinner he seated himself on
                        the porch, expectant, eager and vastly lonesome. An unaccountable shyness
                        afflicted him, rendering him quite incapable of sending his card up to the
                        one who could have dispelled the gathering gloom with a single glance of the
                        eye. Would she come stealing out ostensibly to look at the night-capped
                        peak, but with furtive glances into the shadows of the porch in quest of But
                        no! She would not do that! She would  come
                        attended by the exasperating Mr. White and the friendly duenna. Her starry
                        eyes, directed elsewhere, would only serve to increase the depth of the
                        shadows in which he lurked impatient.
                    She came at last and alone. Stopping at the rail not more than an
                        arm's length from where he sat, she gazed pensively up at the
                        solemn mistress of the valley, one slim hand at her bosom, the other hanging
                        limp at her side. He could have touched that slender hand by merely
                        stretching forth his own. Breathless, enthralled, he sat as one deprived of
                        the power or even the wish to move. The spell was upon him; he was in
                        thralldom.
                    She wore a rose-coloured gown, soft, slinky, seductive. A light Egyptian
                        scarf lay across her bare shoulders. The slim, white neck and the soft dark
                        hair but she sighed! He heard that faint, quick-drawn sigh and started to
                        his feet.
                    "Bedelia!" he whispered softly.
                    She turned quickly, to find him standing beside her, his face aglow with
                        rapture. A quick catch of the breath, a sudden movement of the hand that lay
                        upon her breast, and then she smiled, a wavering, uncertain smile that went
                        straight to his heart and shamed him for startling her. "I beg your
                        pardon," he began lamely. "I I startled you."
                    She held out her hand to him, still smiling. "I fear I shall never
                        become accustomed to being pursued," she said, striving for command
                        of her voice. "It is dreadful to feel that some one is forever
                        watching  you from behind. I am glad it is
                        you, however. You at least are not 'the secret eye that never
                        sleeps'!" She gently withdrew her hand from his ardent
                        clasp. "Mrs. Gaston told me that she had seen you. I feared that
                        you might have gone on your way rejoicing."
                    "Rejoicing?" he cried. "Why do you say
                        that?"
                    "After our experience in Paris, I should think that you had had
                        enough of me and my faithful watch-dogs."
                    "Rubbish!" he exclaimed. "I shall never have
                        enough of you," he went on, with sudden boldness. "As for
                        the watch-dogs, they are not likely to bite us, so what is there to be
                        afraid of?"
                    "Have you succeeded in evading the watchful eye of Mr.
                        Totten's friend?" she enquired, sending an apprehensive
                        glance along the porch.
                    "Completely," he declared. "I am quite alone in
                        this hotel and, I believe, unsuspected. And you? Are you still being
                        "
                    "Sh! Who knows? I think we have thrown them off the track, but one
                        cannot be sure. I raised a dreadful rumpus about it in Paris, and well, they
                        said they were sorry and advised me not to be worried, for the surveillance
                        would cease at once. Still, I am quite sure that they lied to me."
                    "Then you are being followed."
                    She smiled again, and there was mischief in her eyes. "If so, I have
                        led them a merry chase. We have been travelling for two days and nights, Mr.
                             Schmidt, by train and motor, getting off
                        at stations unexpectedly, hopping into trains going in any direction but the
                        right one, sleeping in strange beds and doing all manner of queer things.
                        And here we are at last. I am sure you must look upon me as a very silly,
                        flibberty-gibbet creature."
                    "I see that your retinue has been substantially augmented,"
                        he remarked, a trace of jealousy in his voice. "The good-looking
                        Mr. White has not been eluded."
                    "Mr. White? Oh, yes, I see. But he is to be trusted, Mr.
                        Schmidt," she said mysteriously and tantalisingly. "He
                        will not betray me to my cruel monster of a father. I have his solemn
                        promise not to reveal my whereabouts to any one. My father is the last
                        person in the world to whom he would go with reports of my
                        misdoings."
                    "I saw you this morning, riding with him," said he glumly.
                    "Through the telescope?" she inquired softly, laying a hand
                        upon the stationary instrument.
                    He flushed hotly. "It was when you were starting out, Miss Guile. I
                        am not one of the spies, you should remember."
                    "You are my partner in guilt," she said lightly.
                        "By the way, have you forgiven me for leading you into
                        temptation?"
                    "Certainly. I am still in the Garden of Eden, you see, and as I
                        don't take any stock in the book of Genesis, I hope to prove to
                        myself at least, that the conduct  of an
                        illustrious forebear of mine was not due to the frailties of Eve but to his
                        own tremendous anxiety to get out of a place that was filled with snakes. I
                        hope and pray that you will continue to put temptation in my path so that I
                        may have the frequent pleasure of falling."
                    She turned her face away and for a moment was silent. "Shall we take
                        those chairs over there, Mr. Schmidt? They appear to be as abandoned as
                        we." She indicated two chairs near the broad portals.
                    He shook his head. "If we are looking for the most utterly
                        abandoned, allow me to call your attention to the two in yonder
                        corner."
                    "It is quite dark over there," she said with a frown.
                    "Quite," he agreed. "Which accounts, no doubt, for
                        your failure to see them."
                    "Mrs. Gaston will be looking for me before " she began
                        hesitatingly.
                    "Or Mr. White, perhaps. Let me remind you that they have exceedingly
                        sharp eyes."
                    "Mr. White is no longer here," she announced.
                    His heart leaped. "Then I, at least, have nothing to fear,"
                        he said quickly.
                    She ignored the banality. "He left this afternoon. Very well, let us
                        take the seats over there. I rather like the shall I say shadows?"
                    "I too object to the limelight, Bedelia," he said, offering
                        her his arm.
                    "You are not to call me Bedelia," she said, holding back.
                    
                    "Then 'forgive us our transgressions' is to be
                        applied in the usual order, I presume."
                    "Are you sorry you called me Bedelia?" she insisted,
                        frowning ominously.
                    "No. I'm sorry you object, that's all."
                    They made their way through a maze of chairs and seated themselves in the dim
                        corner. Their view of the Jungfrau from this vine-screened corner was not as
                        perfect as it might have been, but the Jungfrau had no present power of
                        allurement for them.
                    "I cannot stay very long," she said as she sank back in the
                        comfortable chair.
                    He turned his back not only upon the occupants of the porch but the lustrous
                        Jungfrau, drawing his chair up quite close to hers. As he leaned forward,
                        with his elbows on the arms of the chair, she seemed to slink farther back
                        in the depths of hers, as if suddenly afraid of him.
                    "Now, tell me everything," he said. "From
                        beginning to end. What became of you after that day at St. Cloud, whither
                        have you journeyed, and wherefore were you so bent on coming to this now
                        blessed Interlaken?"
                    "Easily answered. Nothing at all became of me. I journeyed thither,
                        and I came because I had set my heart on seeing the Jungfrau."
                    "But you had seen it many times."
                    "And I hoped that I might find peace and quiet here," she
                        added quite distinctly.
                    "You expected to find me here, didn't you?"
                    
                    "Yes, but I did not regard you as a disturber of the
                        peace."
                    "You knew I would come, but you didn't know why, did you,
                        Bedelia?" He leaned a little closer.
                    "Yes, I knew why," she said calmly, emotionlessly. He drew
                        back instantly, chilled by her directness. "You came because there
                        was promise of an interesting adventure, which you now are on the point of
                        making impossible by a rather rash exhibition of haste."
                    He stared at her shadowy face in utter confusion. For a moment he was
                        speechless. Then a rush of protesting sincerity surged up within him and he
                        cried out in low, intense tones: "I cannot allow you to think that
                        of me, Miss Guile. If I have done or said anything to lead you to believe
                        that I am "
                    "Oh, I beg of you, Mr. Schmidt, do not enlarge upon the matter by
                        trying to apologise," she cried.
                    "I am not trying to apologise," he protested. "I
                        am trying to justify what you are pleased to call an exhibition of haste.
                        You see, it's just this way: I am obliged to make hay while the sun
                        shines, for soon I may be cast into utter darkness. My days are numbered. In
                        a fortnight I shall be where I cannot call my soul my own. I "
                    "You alarm me. Are you to be sent to prison?"
                    "You wouldn't look upon it as a prison, but it seems like
                        one to me. Do not laugh. I cannot explain to you now. Another day I shall
                        tell you everything, so pray take me for what I am to-day, and ask  no questions. I have asked no more of you, so
                        do you be equally generous with me."
                    "True," she said, "you have asked no questions of
                        me. You take me for what I am to-day, and yet you know nothing of my
                        yesterdays or my to-morrows. It is only fair that I should be equally
                        confiding. Let there be no more questions. Are we, however, to take each
                        other seriously?"
                    "By all means," he cried. "There will come a day
                        when you may appreciate the full extent of my seriousness."
                    "You speak in riddles."
                    "Is the time ripe for me to speak in sober earnest?" he
                        questioned softly. She drew back again in swift alarm.
                    "No, no! Not now not yet. Do not say anything now, Mr. Schmidt, that
                        may put an end to our to our adventure."
                    She was so serious, so plaintive, and yet so shyly prophetic of comfort yet
                        to be attained, that his heart warmed with a mighty glow of exaltation. A
                        sweet feeling of tenderness swept over him.
                    "If God is good, there can be but one end to our
                        adventure," he said, and then, for some mysterious reason, silence
                        fell between them. Long afterward it seemed hours to him! she spoke, and her
                        voice was low and troubled.
                    "Can you guess why I am being watched so carefully, why I am being
                        followed so doggedly by men who serve not me but another?"
                    
                    "Yes. It is because you are the greatest jewel in the possession of
                        a great man, and he would preserve you against all variets, such as
                        I."
                    She did not reveal surprise at his shrewd conjecture. She nodded her head and
                        sighed.
                    "You are right. I am his greatest jewel, and yet he would give me
                        into the keeping of an utter stranger. I am being protected against that
                        conscienceless varlet Love! If love lays hands upon me ah, my friend, you
                        cannot possibly guess what a calamity that would be!"
                    "And love will lay hands upon you,
                        Bedelia,"
                    "I am sure of that," she said, once more serene mistress of
                        herself after a peculiarly dangerous lapse. "That is why I shudder.
                        What could be more dreadful than to fall into the clutches of that merciless
                        foe to peace? He rends one's heart into shreds; he stabs in the
                        dark; he thrusts, cuts and slashes and the wounds never heal; he blinds
                        without pity; he is overbearing, domineering, ruthless and his victims are
                        powerless to retaliate. Love is the greatest tyrant in all the world, Mr.
                        Schmidt, and we poor wretches can never hope to conquer him. We are his
                        prey, and he is rapacious. Do you not shudder also?"
                    "Bless you, no! I'd rather enjoy meeting him in mortal
                        combat. My notion of bliss would be a fight to the death with love, for then
                        the conflict would not be one-sided. What could be more glorious than to
                        stand face to face with love, hand to hand, breast to breast, lip to lip
                        until the end of time? Let him cut  and slash
                        and stab if you will, there would still be recompense for the vanquished.
                        Even those who have suffered most in the conflict with love must admit that
                        they have had a share in the spoils. One can't ignore the sweet
                        hours when counting up the bitter ones, after love has withdrawn from the
                        tender encounter. The cuts and slashes are cherished and memory is a
                        store-house for the spoils that must be shared with vanity."
                    "It sounds like a book. Who is your favourite author?" she
                        inquired lightly.
                    "Baedeker," he replied, with promptness. "Without
                        my Baedeker, I should never have chanced upon the route travelled by love,
                        nor the hotel where I now lodge in close proximity to "
                    "Will you please be sensible?"
                    "You invite something to the contrary, Bedelia," he
                        ventured.
                    "Haven't I requested you to "
                    "I think of you only as Bedelia," he made haste to explain.
                        "Bedelia will stick to you forever, you see, while Miss Guile is
                        almost ephemeral. It cannot live long, you know, with so many other names
                        eager to take its place. But Bedelia ah, Bedelia is everlasting."
                    She laughed joyously, naturally. "You really are quite wonderful,
                        Mr. Schmidt. Still I must change the subject. I trust the change will not
                        affect your glibness, for it is quite exhilarating. How long do you purpose
                        remaining in Interlaken?"
                    
                    "That isn't changing the subject," said he.
                        "I shall be here for a week or ten days or perhaps
                        longer." He put it in the form of a question, after all.
                    "Indeed? How I envy you. I am sorry to say I shall have to leave in
                        a day or two."
                    His face fell. "Why?" he demanded, almost indignantly.
                    "Because I am enjoying myself," she replied.
                    "I don't quite get your meaning."
                    "I am having such a good time disobeying my father, Mr. Schmidt, and
                        eluding pursuers. It is only a matter of a day or two before I am discovered
                        here, so I mean to keep on dodging. It is splendid fun."
                    "Do you think it is quite fair to me?"
                    "Did I induce you to come here, good sir?"
                    "You did," said he, with conviction. "Heaven is my
                        witness. I would not have come but for you. I am due at home by this
                        time."
                    "Are you under any obligations to remain in Interlaken for a week or
                        ten days?"
                    "Not now," he replied. "Do you mind telling me
                        where you are going to, Miss Guile?"
                    "First to Vienna, then well, you cannot guess where. I have decided
                        to go to Edelweiss."
                    "Edelweiss!" he exclaimed in astonishment. He could hardly
                        believe his ears.
                    "It is the very last place in the world that my father would think
                        of looking for me. Besides I am curious  to
                        see the place. I understand that the great Mr. Blithers is to be there soon,
                        and the stupid Prince who will not be tempted by millions, and it is even
                        possible that the extraordinary Miss Blithers may take it into her head to
                        look the place over before definitely refusing to be its Princess. I may
                        find some amusement or entertainment as an on-looker when the riots
                        begin."
                    He was staring at her wide-eyed and incredulous. "Do you really mean
                        to say you are going to Graustark?"
                    "I have thought of doing so. Don't you think it will be
                        amusing to be on the scene when the grand climax occurs? Of course, the
                        Prince will come off his high horse, and the girl will see the folly of her
                        ways, and old Mr. Blithers will run rough shod over everybody, and but,
                        goodness, I can't even speculate on the possibilities."
                    He was silent. So this was the way the wind blew, eh? There was but one
                        construction to be put upon her decision to visit the Capital of Graustark.
                        She had taken it into her head "to look the place
                        over before definitely refusing to be its Princess!" His first
                        thrill of exultation gave way to a sickening sense of disappointment.
                    All this time she was regarding him through amused, half-closed eyes. She had
                        a distinct advantage over him. She knew that he was the Prince of Graustark;
                        she had known it for many days. Perhaps if she had known all the things that
                        were in his cunning brain,  she would not have
                        ventured so far into the comedy she was constructing. She would have
                        hesitated aye, she might have changed her methods completely. But she was in
                        the mood to do and say daring things. She considered her position absolutely
                        secure, and so she could afford to enjoy herself for the time being. There
                        would be an hour of reckoning, no doubt, but she was not troubled by its
                        promise of castigation.
                    "Poor Prince!" she sighed pityingly. He started. The remark
                        was so unexpected that he almost betrayed himself. It seemed profoundly
                        personal. "He will be in very hot water, I fear."
                    He regarded her coldly. "And you want to be on hand to see him
                        squirm, I suppose."
                    She took instant alarm. Was she going too far? His query was somewhat
                        disconcerting.
                    "To be perfectly frank with you, Mr. Schmidt, I am going to
                        Graustark because no one will ever think of looking for me in such an
                        out-of-the-way place. I am serious now, so you must not laugh at me.
                        Circumstances are such that I prefer to seek happiness after a fashion of my
                        own. My parents love me, but they will not understand me. They wish me to
                        marry a man they have picked out for me. I intend to pick out my own man,
                        Mr. Schmidt. You may suspect, from all that you have seen, that I am running
                        away from home, from those who are dearest in all the world to me. You knew
                        that I was carefully watched in Paris. You know that my father fears  that I may marry a man distasteful to him,
                        and I suppose to my mother, although she is not so "
                    "Are his fears well-founded?" he asked, rudely interrupting
                        her. "Is there a man that he has cause to fear? Are are you in love
                        with some one, Bedelia?"
                    "Do not interrupt me. I want you to know that I am not running away
                        from home, that I shall return to it when I see fit, and that I am not in
                        love with the man they suspect. I want you to be just with me. You are not
                        to blame my father for anything, no matter how absurd his actions may appear
                        to you in the light of the past few days. It is right that he should try to
                        safeguard me. I am wayward but I am not foolish. I shall commit no silly
                        blunder, you may be sure of that. Now do you understand me better?"
                    She was very serious, very intense. He laid his hand on hers, and she did not
                        withdraw it. Emboldened, his hand closed upon the dainty fingers and an
                        instant later they were borne to his hot lips.
                    "You have said that I came here in search of a light
                        adventure," he whispered, holding her hand close to his cheek as he
                        bent nearer to her. "You imply that I am a trifler, a
                        light-o'-love. I want you to understand me better. I came here
                        because I "
                    "Stop!" she pleaded. "You must not say it. I am
                        serious yes, I know that you are serious too. But you must wait. If you were
                        to say it to me now  I should have to send you
                        away and oh, believe me, I do not want to do that. I I "
                    "You love no one else?" he cried, rapturously.
                    She swayed slightly, as if incapable of resisting the appeal that called her
                        to his heart. Her lips were parted, her eyes glowed luminously even in the
                        shadows, and she scarcely breathed the words:
                    "I love no one else."
                    A less noble nature than his would have seized upon the advantage offered by
                        her sudden weakness. Instead, he drew a long, deep breath, straightened his
                        figure and as he gently released the imprisoned hand, the prince in him
                        spoke.
                    "You have asked me to wait. I am sure that you know what is in my
                        heart. It will always be there. It will not cut and slash and stab, for it
                        is the most tender thing that has ever come into my life or yours. It must
                        never be accused of giving pain to you, so I shall obey you and wait. You
                        are right to avoid the risk of entrusting a single word of hope to me. I am
                        a passer-by. My sincerity, my honesty of purpose remain to be proved. Time
                        will serve my cause. I can only ask you to believe in me to trust me a
                        little more each day and to let your heart be my judge."
                    She spoke softly. "I believe in you, I trust you even now, or I
                        would not be here. You are kind to me. Few would have been so generous. We
                        both are passers-by. It is too soon for us to judge each other in the full.
                        I must be sure oh, I must be sure of  myself.
                        Can you understand? I must be sure of myself, and I am not sure now. You do
                        not know how much there is at stake, you can not possibly know what it would
                        mean to me if I were to discover that our adventure had no real significance
                        in the end. I know it sounds strange and mysterious, or you would not look
                        so puzzled. But unless I can be sure of one thing one vital thing our
                        adventure has failed in every respect. Now, I must go in. No; do not ask me
                        to stay and let me go alone. I prefer it so. Good night, my
                        comrade."
                    He stood up and let her pass. "Good night, my princess," he
                        said, clearly and distinctly. She shot a swift glance into his eyes, smiled
                        faintly, and moved away. His rapt gaze followed her. She entered the door
                        without so much as a glance over her shoulder.
                    "My princess," he repeated wonderingly, to himself.
                        "Have I kissed the hand of my princess? God in heaven, is there on
                        earth a princess more perfect than she? Can there be in all this world
                        another so deserving of worship as she?"
                    Late at night she sat in her window looking up at the peaceful Jungfrau. A
                        dreamy, ineffably sweet smile lay in her dark eyes. The hand he kissed had
                        lain long against her lips. To herself she had repeated, over and over
                        again, the inward whisper:
                    "What will my dear, simple old dad say if I marry this man after
                        all?"
                    In a window not ten feet away, he was staring out  into the night, with lowering eyes and troubled heart, and in
                        his mind he was saying:
                    "What will my people do if I marry this woman after
                    all?"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XX
                    LOVE IN ABEYANCE
                    TWO days went by. They were fraught with an ever
                        increasing joy for the two who were learning to understand each other
                        through the mute, though irresistible teachings of a common tutor. Each
                        succeeding hour had its exquisite compensation; each presented the cup of
                        knowledge to lips that were parched with the fever of impotence, and each
                        time it was returned empty by the seekers after wisdom. There were days in
                        which Love went harvesting and prospered amazingly in the fields, for each
                        moment that he stored away against the future was ripe with promise. He was
                        laying by the store on which he was to subsist to the end of his days; he
                        allowed no moment to go to waste, for he is a miser and full of greed.
                    Not one word of love passed between these two who waited for the fruit to
                        ripen. They were never alone together. Always they were attended by the
                        calm, keen-eyed Mrs. Gaston, who, though she may have been in sympathy with
                        their secret enterprise, was nevertheless a dependable barrier to its hasty
                        consummation.
                    She had received her instructions from the one now most likely to be in need
                        of a deterring influence; the girl herself. After that evening on the porch,
                        Bedelia  had gone straight to her duenna with
                        the truth. Then she made it clear to the good lady that she was not to be
                        left alone for an instant to confront the welcome besieger. And so it was
                        that when Robin and Bedelia walked or rode together, they were attended by
                        prevention. In the Casino, at the gaming tables, at the concert, or even in
                        the street he was never free to express a thought or emotion that, under
                        less guarded conditions, might have exposed her to the risk she was so
                        carefully avoiding.
                    He understood the situation perfectly and was not
                        -esentful. He appreciated the caution with which she was
                        carrying on her own campaign, and he was not unmindful of the benefits that
                        might also accrue to him through this proscribed period of reflection. While
                        he was sure of himself by this time, and fully determined to risk even his
                        crown for the girl who so calmly held him at bay, he was also sensible of
                        the wisdom of her course. She was not willing to subject herself or him to
                        the dangers of temptation. As she had said, there was a great deal at stake;
                        the rest of their lives, in truth.
                    There was one little excursion to Grindelwald and its glacier, and later an
                        ascent of the Schynige Platte. Even a desperate horror of the rack and
                        pinion railway up and down the steep mountain did not daunt the incomparable
                        chaperone. (True, she closed her eyes and shrank as far away from the edge
                        of eternity as possible, but she stuck manfully to her post.) He  dined with them on the two evenings, and with
                        them heard the concerts.
                    There were times when he was perplexed, and uncertain of her. At no time did
                        she relax into what might have been considered a receptive or even an
                        encouraging mood. He watched eagerly for the love-light that he hoped to
                        surprise in her eyes, but it never appeared. She was serene, self-contained,
                        natural. That momentary dissolving on her part when she sat with him in the
                        shadows was the only circumstance he had to base his hopes upon. She had
                        betrayed herself then by word and manner, but now she had her emotions well
                        in hand.
                    Her lovely eyes met his frankly and without the faintest sign of diffidence
                        or self-consciousness. Her soft laugh was free and unconstrained, her smile
                        gay and remotely suggestive of mischief. At times he thought she was playing
                        the game too well for one who professed to be concerned about the future.
                    On the third day he was convicted of duplicity. She went off for a walk
                        alone, leaving him safely anchored in what he afterwards came to look upon
                        as a pre-arranged game of auction-bridge. When she came in after an absence
                        of at least two hours, the game was just breaking up. He noted the
                        questioning look that Mrs. Gaston bestowed upon her fair charge, and also
                        remarked that it contained no sign of reproof. The girl went up to her room
                        without so much as a word with him. Her face was flushed  and she carried her head disdainfully. He was
                        greatly puzzled.
                    The puzzle was soon explained. He waited for her on the stairway as she came
                        down alone to dinner.
                    "You told me that your friends were not in Interlaken, Mr.
                        Schmidt," she said coldly. "Why did you feel called upon
                        to deceive me?"
                    He bit his lip. For an instant he reflected, and then gave an evasive answer.
                        "I think I told you that I was alone in this hotel, Miss Guile. My
                        friends are at another hotel. I am not aware that "
                    "I have seen and talked with that charming old man, Mr.
                        Totten," she interrupted. "He has been here for days, and
                        Mr. Dank as well. Do you think that you have been quite fair with
                        me?"
                    He lowered his eyes. "I think I have been most fair to both of
                        us," he replied. "Will you believe me when I say that in a
                        way I personally requested them to leave this hotel and seek another? And
                        will it decrease your respect for me if I add that I wanted to have you all
                        to myself, so to speak, and not to feel that these good friends of mine were
                        "
                    "Why don't you look me in the face, Mr. Schmidt?"
                        she broke in. He looked up at once prepared to meet a look of disdain. To
                        his surprise, she was smiling. "I have talked it all over with Mrs.
                        Gaston, and she advised me to forgive you if you were in the least penitent
                        and honest. Well, you have made an honest confession, I am satisfied. Now, I
                        have a confession to make. I have suspected all along that Mr. Totten  and Mr. Dank and the shadowy Mr. Gourou were
                        in the town."
                    "You suspected?" he cried in amazement and chagrin.
                    "I was morally certain that they were here. To-day my suspicions
                        were justified. I encountered Mr. Totten in the park beyond the
                        Jungfraublick. He was very much upset, I can assure you, but he recovered
                        with amazing swiftness. We sat on one of the benches in a nice little nook
                        and had a long, long talk. He is a charming man. I have asked him to come to
                        luncheon with us to-morrow, and to bring Mr. Dank."
                    "Good Lord, will wonders never "
                    "But I did not include the still invisible Mr. Gourou. I was afraid
                        that you would be too uncomfortable under the hawk-like eye of the gentleman
                        who so kindly warned us at the Pavillon Bleu." There was gentle
                        raillery in her manner. "I shall expect you to join us, Mr.
                        Schmidt. You have no other engagement?"
                    "I I shall be delighted," he stammered.
                    She laid her hand gently upon his arm and a serious sweetness came into her
                        eyes.
                    "Come," she said; "let us go in ahead of Mrs.
                        Gaston. Let us have just one little minute to ourselves, Mr.
                        Schmidt."
                    It was true that she came upon the Count in one of the paths of the Kleine
                        Rugen. He was walking slowly toward her, his eyes fixed thoughtfully upon
                        the ground. When she accosted him, he was plainly  confused, as she had said. After the first few passages in
                        polite though stilted conversation, his keen, grey eyes resumed their
                        thoughtful it was even a calculating look.
                    "Will you sit here with me for a while, Miss Guile?" he
                        asked gently. "I have something of the gravest importance to say to
                        you."
                    She sat beside him on the sequestered bench, and when she arose to leave him
                        an hour later, her cheek was warm with colour and her eyes were filled with
                        tenderness toward this grim, staunch old man who was the friend of her friend. She laid her hand in his and suffered him to
                        raise it to his lips.
                    "I hope, my dear young lady," said he with simple
                        directness, "that you will not regard me as a stupid, interfering
                        old meddler. God is my witness, I have your best interests at heart. You are
                        too good and beautiful to "
                    "I shall always look upon you as the kindest of men!" she
                        cried impulsively, and left him.
                    He stood watching her slender, graceful figure as she moved down the sloping
                        path and turned into the broad avenue. A smallish man with a lean face came
                        up from the opposite direction and stopped beside him.
                    "Could you resist her, Quinnox, if you were twenty-two?"
                        asked this man in his quiet voice.
                    Quinnox did not look around, but shook his head slowly. "I cannot
                        resist her at sixty-two, my friend. She is adorable."
                    "I do not blame him. It is fate. She is fate.  Our work is done, my friend. We have served
                        our country well, but fate has taken the matter out of our hands. There is
                        nothing left for us to do but to fold our arms and wait." Gourou
                        revealed his inscrutable smile as he pulled at his thin, scraggly moustache.
                        He was shaking his head, as one who resigns himself to the inevitable.
                    After a long silence Quinnox spoke.
                    "Our people will come to love their princess, Gourou."
                    "Even as you and I, my friend," said the Baron.
                    And then they held their heads erect and walked confidently down the road
                        their future sovereign had traversed before them.
                    When Mrs. Gaston joined Robin and Bedelia at the table which had been set for
                        them in the salle a manger, she laid several letters
                        before the girl who picked them up instantly and glanced at the
                        superscription on each.
                    "I think that all of them are important," said Mrs. Gaston
                        significantly. The smile on the girl's face had given way to a
                        clouded brow. She was visibly perturbed.
                    "You will forgive me, Mr. Schmidt," she said nervously.
                        "I must look at them at once."
                    He tried not to watch her face as she read what appeared to be a brief and
                        yet evidently important letter, but his rapt gaze was not to be so easily
                        managed. An exclamation of annoyance fell from her lips.
                    "This is from a friend in Paris, Mr. Schmidt," she  said, hesitatingly. Then, as if coming to a
                        quick decision: "My father has heard that I am carrying on
                        atrociously with a strange young man. It seems that it is a new young man. He is beside himself with rage. My friends have already
                        come in for severe criticism. He blames them for permitting his daughter to
                        run at large and to pick up with every Tom, Dick and Harry. Dear me, I
                        shudder when I think of what he will do to you, Mrs. Gaston. He will take
                        off your head completely. But never fear, you old dear, I will see that it
                        is put on again as neatly as ever. So, you see, Mr. Schmidt, you now belong
                        to that frightful order of nobodies, the Toms and the Dicks and the
                        Harrys."
                    "I see that there is a newspaper clipping attached," he
                        remarked. "Perhaps your father has been saying something to the
                        newspapers." It was a mean speech and he regretted it instantly.
                    She was not offended, however. Indeed, she may not have heard what he said,
                        for she was reading the little slip of printed matter. Suddenly she tore it
                        into tiny bits and scattered them under the table. Her cheeks were red and
                        her eyes glistened unmistakably with mortification. He was never to know
                        what was in that newspaper cutting, but he was conscious of a sharp
                        sensation of anger and pity combined. Whatever it was, it was offensive to
                        her, and his blood boiled. He noted the expression of alarm and apprehension
                        deepen in Mrs. Gaston's face.
                    Bedelia slashed open another envelope and glanced  at its contents. Her eyes flew open with surprise. For an
                        instant she stared, a frown of perplexity on her brow.
                    "We are discovered!" she cried a moment later, clapping her
                        hands together in an ecstasy of delight. "The pursuers are upon our
                        heels. Even now they may be watching me from behind some convenient post or
                        through some handy window pane. Isn't it fine? Don't look
                        so horrified, you old dear. They can't eat us, you know, even
                        though we are in a dining-room. I love it all! Followed by man-hunters! What
                        could be more thrilling? The chase is on again. Quick! We must prepare for
                        flight!"
                    "Flight?" gasped Robin. Her eyes were dancing. His were
                        filled with dismay.
                    "It is as I feared," she cried. "They have found
                        me out. Hurry! Let us finish this wretched dinner. I must leave here
                        to-night."
                    "Impossible!" cried Mrs. Gaston. "Don't
                        be silly. To-morrow will be time enough. Calm yourself, my dear."
                    "To-morrow at sunrise," cried Bedelia enthusiastically.
                        "It is already planned, Mr. Schmidt. I have engaged an automobile
                        in anticipation of this very emergency. The trains are not safe. To-morrow I
                        fly again. This letter is from the little stenographer in Paris. I bribed
                        her yes, I bribed her with many francs. She is in the offices of the great
                        detective agency'the Eye that never Sleeps!' I  shall give her a great many more of those
                        excellent francs, my friends. She is an honest girl. She did not fail
                        me."
                    "I don't see how you can say she is honest if she accepted
                        a bribe," said Mrs. Gaston severely.
                    "Pooh!" was Miss Guile's sufficient answer to
                        this. "We cross the Brunig Pass by motor. That really is like
                        flying, isn't it?"
                    "To Lucerne?" demanded Robin, still hazily.
                    "No, no! That would be madness. We shall avoid Lucerne. Miles and
                        miles to the north we will find a safe retreat for a day or two. Then there
                        will be a journey by rail to to your own city of Vienna, Mr. Schmidt. You
                        "
                    "See here," said Robin flatly, "I don't
                        understand the necessity for all this rushing about by motor and "
                    "Of course you don't," she cried. "You
                        are not being sought by a cruel, inhuman monster of a father who would
                        consign you to a most shudderable fate! You don't have to marry a
                        man whose very name you have hated. You can pick and choose for yourself.
                        And so shall I, for that matter. You "
                    "You adore your father," cut in Mrs.
                        Gaston sharply. "I don't think you should speak of him in
                        that "
                    "Of course I adore him! He is a dear old bear. But he is a monster,
                        an ogre, a tyrant, a oh, well, he is everything that's dreadful!
                        You look dreadfully serious, Mr. Schmidt. Do you think that I should  submit to my father's demands and
                        marry the man he has chosen for me?"
                    "I do," said Robin, abruptly and so emphatically that both
                        of his hearers jumped in their seats. He made haste to dissemble.
                        "Of course, I'd much rather have you do that than to break
                        your neck rolling over a precipice or something of the sort in a crazy
                        automobile dash."
                    Miss Guile recovered her poise with admirable promptness. Her smile was a
                        trifle uncertain, but she had a dependable wit. "If that is all
                        that you are afraid of, I'll promise to save my neck at all
                        costs," she said. "I could have many husbands but only one
                        poor little neck."
                    "You can have only one husband," said he, almost savagely.
                        "By the way, why don't you read the other
                        letter?" He was regarding it with jealous eyes, for she had slipped
                        it, face downward, under the edge of her plate.
                    "It isn't important," she said, with a quick look
                        into his eyes. She convicted herself in that glance, and knew it on the
                        instant.
                    Angry with herself, she snatched up the letter and tore it open. Her cheeks
                        were flushed. She read however without betraying any additional evidence of
                        uneasiness or embarrassment. When she had finished, she deliberately folded
                        the sheets and stuck them back into the envelope without comment. One
                        looking over her shoulder as she read, however, might have caught snatches
                        of sentences here and there on the heavily 
                        scrawled page. They were such as these: "You had led me to
                        hope," ... "for years I have been your faithful
                        admirer," ... "Nor have I wavered for an instant despite
                        your whimsical attitude," ... "therefore I felt justified
                        in believing that you were sincere in your determination to defy your
                        father." And others of an even more caustic nature: "You
                        are going to marry this prince after all," ... "not that
                        you have ever by word or deed bound yourself to me, yet I had every reason
                        to hope," ... "Your father will be pleased to find that
                        you are obedient," ... "I am not mean enough to wish you
                        anything but happiness, although I know you will never achieve it through
                        this sickening surrender to vanity," ... "if I were a
                        prince with a crown and a debt that I couldn't pay," ...
                        "admit that I have had no real chance to win out against such
                        odds," etc.
                    She faced Robin coolly. "It will be necessary to abandon our little
                        luncheon for to-morrow. I am sorry. Still Mr. Totten informs me that he will
                        be in Vienna shortly. The pleasure is merely postponed."
                    "Are you in earnest about this trip by motor tomorrow
                        morning?" demanded Robin darkly. "You surely cannot be
                        "
                    "I am very much in earnest," she said decisively. He looked
                        to Mrs. Gaston for help. That lady placidly shook her head. In fact, she
                        appeared to be rather in favour of the preposterous plan, if one were to
                        judge by the rapt expression on her countenance.  "I had the supposedly honest word of these crafty
                        gentlemen that I was not to be interfered with again. They gave me their
                        promise. I shall now give them all the trouble possible."
                    "But it will be a simple matter for them to find out how and when
                        you left this hotel and to trace you perfectly."
                    "Don't be too sure of that," she said, exultantly.
                        "I have a trick or two up my sleeve that will baffle them properly,
                        Mr. Schmidt."
                    "My dear," interposed Mrs. Gaston severely, "do
                        not forget yourself. It isn't necessary to resort to slang in order
                        "
                    "Slang is always necessary," avowed Bedelia, undisturbed.
                        "Goodness, I know I shall not sleep a wink to-night."
                    "Nor I," said Robin gloomily. Suddenly his face lightened.
                        A wild, reckless gleam shot into his eyes and, to their amazement, he banged
                        the table with his fist. "By Jove, I know what I shall do.
                        I'll go with you!"
                    "No!" cried Bedelia, aghast. "I I cannot permit
                        it, Mr. Schmidt. Can't you understand? You you
                        are the man with whom I am supposed to be carrying on atrociously. What
                        could be more convicting than to be discovered racing over a mountain pass
                        Oh, it is not to be considered not for an instant."
                    "Well, I can tell you flatly just what I intend to do,"
                        said he, setting his jaws. "I shall hire another  car and keep you in sight every foot of the
                        way. You may be able to elude the greatest detective agency in Europe, but
                        you can't get away from me. I intend to keep you now that
                        I've got you, Bedelia. You can't shake me off. Where you
                        go, I go."
                    "Do you mean it?" she cried, a new thrill in her voice. He
                        looked deep into her eyes and read there a message that invited him to
                        perform vast though fool-hardy deeds. Her eyes were suddenly sweet with the
                        love she had never expected to know; her lips -rembled
                        with the longing for kisses. "I shall travel far," she
                        murmured. "You may find the task an arduous one keeping up with me,
                        I mean."
                    "I am young and strong," he said, "and, if God is
                        good to me, I shall live for fifty years to come, or even longer. I tingle
                        with joy, Bedelia, when I think of being near you for fifty years or more.
                        Have have you thought of it in that light? Have you looked ahead and said to
                        yourself: fifty years have I to live and all of them with "
                    "Hush! I was speaking of a week's journey, not of a
                        life's voyage, Mr. Schmidt," she said, her face suffused.
                    "I was speaking of a honeymoon," said he, and then
                        remembered Mrs. Gaston. She was leaning back in her chair, smiling benignly.
                        He had an uncomfortable thought: was he walking into a trap set for him by
                        this clever woman? Had she an ulterior motive in advancing his cause?
                    
                    "But it would be perfectly silly of you to follow me in a
                        car," said Bedelia, trying to regain her lost composure.
                        "Perfectly silly, wouldn't it, Mrs. Gaston?"
                    "Perfectly," said Mrs. Gaston.
                    "I will promise to see you in Vienna "
                    "I intend to see you every day," he declared,
                        "from now till the end of time."
                    "Really, Mr. Schmidt, you "
                    "If there is one thing I despise beyond all reason, Bedelia, it is
                        the name of 'Schmidt'! I wish you wouldn't call
                        me by that name."
                    "I can't just call you
                        'Mister,'" she demurred.
                    "Call me Rex for the present," said he. "I will
                        supply you with a better one later on."
                    "May I call him Rex?" she inquired of her companion.
                    "In moderation," said Mrs. Gaston.
                    "Very well, then, Rex, I have changed my mind. I shall not cross the
                        Brunig by motor since you insist upon risking your neck in pursuit of me. I
                        shall go by train in the morning, calmly, complacently, stupidly by train.
                        Instead of a thrilling dash for liberty over rocky heights and through
                        perilous gorges, I shall travel like any bourgeoise in a second or third
                        class carriage, and the only thrill I shall have will be when we stop for
                        Baker's chocolate at the top of the Pass. By that time I expect to
                        be sufficiently hungry to be thrilled even by the sight of a  cake of chocolate. Will you travel in the
                        carriage behind me? I fancy it will be safe and convenient and you
                        can't possibly be far from my heels."
                    "That's a sensible idea," he cried. "And
                        we may be able to accommodate your other pursuers on the same train.
                        What's the sense of leaving them behind? They'd only catch
                        us up in the end, so we might just as well take them along with
                        us."
                    "No. We will keep well ahead of them. I insist on that. They
                        can't get here before to-morrow afternoon, so we will be far in the
                        lead. We will be in Vienna in two days. There I shall say good-bye to you,
                        for I am going on beyond. I am going to Graustark, the new Blithers estate.
                        Surely you will not follow me there."
                    "You are very much mistaken. I shall be there as soon as you and I
                        shall stay just as long, provided Mr. Blithers has no objections,"
                        said Robin, with more calmness than he had hoped to display in the face of
                        her sudden thrust.
                    "We are forgetting our dinner," said Mrs. Gaston quietly.
                        "I think the waiter is annoyed."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXI
                    MR. BLITHERS ARRIVES IN GRAUSTARK
                    MR. WILLIAM W. BLITHERS arrived in Edelweiss, the Capital of Graustark, on the same
                        day that the Prince returned from his tour of the world. As a matter of
                        fact, he travelled by special train and beat the Prince home by the matter
                        of three hours. The procession of troops, headed by the Royal Castle Guard,
                        it was announced would pass the historic Hotel Regengetz at five in the
                        afternoon, so Mr. Blithers had front seats on the extension porch facing the
                        Platz.
                    He did not know it, but if he had waited for the regular train in Vienna, he
                        would have had the honour of travelling in the same railway carriage with
                        the royal young man. ("Would" is used advisedly in the
                        place of "might," for he would have
                        travelled in it, you may be sure.)
                    Moreover, he erred in another particular, for arriving at the same instant
                        and virtually arm-in-arm with the country's sovereign, he could
                        hardly have been kept out of the procession itself. When you stop to think
                        that next to the Prince he was the most important personage in the realm on
                        this day of celebration, it ought not to be considered at all unreasonable
                        for him to have expected some notable attention, such as being placed in the
                        first carriage  immediately behind the
                        country's sovereign, or possibly on the seat facing him. Missing an
                        opportunity like this, wasn't at all Mr. Blithers' idea of
                        success. He was very sorry about the special train. If it hadn't
                        been for that train he might now be preparing to ride castlewards behind a
                        royal band instead of sitting with his wife in the front row of seats on a
                        hotel porch, just like a regular guest, waiting for the parade to come
                        along. It certainly was a wasted opportunity.
                    He had lost no time in his dash across the continent. In the first place, his
                        agents in Paris made it quite clear to him that there was likely to be
                        "ructions" in Graustark over the loan and the prospect of
                        a plebeian princess being seated on the throne whether the people liked it
                        or not; and in the second place, Maud Applegate had left a note on his desk
                        in the Paris offices, coolly informing him that she was likely to turn up in
                        Edelweiss almost as soon as he. She added an annoying postscript. She said
                        she was curious to see what sort of a place it was that he had been wasting
                        his money on!
                    To say that he was put out by Maud's aggravating behaviour would be
                        stating the case with excessive gentleness. he was furious. He sent for the
                        head of the detective agency and gave him a blowing up that he was never to
                        forget. It appears that the detectives had followed a false lead and had
                        been fooled by the wary Maud in a most humiliating manner. They
                        hadn't the remotest notion where she was,  and evinced great surprise when informed in a voice loud
                        enough to be heard a half-block away that she was on her way to Graustark.
                        They said it couldn't be possible, and he said they didn't
                        know what they were talking about. He was done with them. They could step
                        out and ask the cashier to give them a check for their services, and so on
                        and so forth. He did not forget to notify them that they were a gang of
                        loafers.
                    Then he dragged Mrs. Blithers off to the Gare de l'Este and took the
                        Express to Vienna. He would see to the loan first and to Maud afterward.
                    He had no means of knowing that a certain Miss Guile was doing more to shape
                        the destiny of the principality of Graustark than all the millions he had
                        poured into its treasury. Nor had he the faintest suspicion that she was
                        even then on Graustark soil and waiting as eagerly as he for the procession
                        to pass a given point.
                    Going back a day or two, it becomes necessary to report that while in Vienna
                        the perverse Bedelia played a shabby trick on the infatuated Robin. She
                        stole away from the Bristol in the middle of the night and was half-way to
                        the Graustark frontier before he was aware of her flight. She left a note
                        for him, the contents of which sufficed to ease his mind in the presence of
                        what otherwise might have been looked upon as a calamity. Instead of
                        relapsing into despondency over her defection, he became astonishingly
                        exuberant. It was relief and not despair that followed  the receipt of the brief letter. She had played directly into
                        his hand, after all. In other words, she had removed a difficulty that had
                        been troubling him for days: the impossibility of entering his own domain
                        without betraying his identity to her. Naturally his entrance to the Capital
                        would be attended by the most incriminating manifestation on the part of the
                        populace. The character of R. Schmidt would be effaced in an instant, and,
                        according to his own notion, quite a bit too soon to suit his plans. He
                        preferred to remain Schmidt until she placed her hand in his and signified a
                        readiness to become plain Mrs. R. Schmidt of Vienna. That would be his hour
                        of triumph.
                    In her note she said: "Forgive me for running away like this. It is
                        for the best. I must have a few days to myself, dear friend, days for sober
                        reflection uninfluenced by the presence of a natural enemy to composure. And
                        so I am leaving you in this cowardly, graceless fashion. Do not think ill of
                        me. I give you my solemn promise that in a few days I shall let you know
                        where I may be found if you choose to come to me. Even then I may not be
                        fully convinced in my own mind that our adventure has reached its climax.
                        You have said that you would accompany me to Graustark. I am leaving
                        to-night for that country, where I shall remain in seclusion for a few days
                        before acquainting you with my future plans. It is not my intention to stop
                        in Edelweiss at present. The newspapers proclaim a state of unrest there  over the coming visit of Mr. Blithers and the
                        return of the Prince, both of whom are very much in the public eye just now.
                        I prefer the quiet of the country to the excitement of the city, so I shall
                        seek some remote village and give myself up to shall I say prayerful
                        meditation? Believe me, dear Rex, to be your most devoted, though whimsical,
                        Bedelia."
                    He was content with this. Deep down in his heart he thanked her for running
                        away at such an opportune time! The situation was immeasurably simplified.
                        He had laid awake nights wondering how he could steal into his own domain
                        with her as a companion and still put off the revelation that he was not yet
                        ready to make. Now the way was comparatively easy. Once the demonstration
                        was safely over, he could carry on his adventure with something of the same
                        security that made the prowlings of the Bagdad Caliphs such happy
                        enterprises, for he could with impunity traverse the night in the mantle of
                        R. Schmidt.
                    Immediately upon receiving her letter, he sent for Quinnox and Gourou, who
                        were stopping at a hotel nearby.
                    "I am ready to proceed to Edelweiss, my friends," said he.
                        "Miss Guile has departed. Will you book accommodations on the
                        earliest train leaving for home?"
                    "I have already seen to that, highness," said Gourou
                        calmly. "We leave at six this evening. Count Quinnox has wired the
                        Prime Minister that you will arrive  in
                        Edelweiss at three to-morrow afternoon, God willing."
                    "You knew that she had gone?"
                    "I happened to be in the Nordbahnhof when she boarded the train at
                        midnight," replied the Baron, unmoved.
                    "Do you never sleep?" demanded Robin hotly.
                    "Not while I am on duty," said Gourou.
                    The Prince was thoughtful, his brow clouding with a troubled frown.
                        "I suppose I shall now have to face my people with the confession
                        that will confirm their worst fears. I may as well say to you, my friends,
                        that I mean to make her my wife even though it costs me my kingdom. Am I
                        asking too much of you, gentlemen, when I solicit your support in my fight
                        against the prejudice that is certain to "
                    Quinnox stopped him with a profound gesture of resignation and a single word:
                        "Kismet!" and Gourou, with his most ironic smile, added:
                        "You may count on us to support the crown, highness, even though we
                        lose our heads."
                    "Thank you," said Robin, flushing. "Just because I
                        appear to have lost my head is no reason for your doing the same, Baron
                        Gourou."
                    The Baron's smile was unfaltering. "True," he
                        said. "But we may be able to avoid all that by inducing the people
                        of Graustark to lose their hearts."
                    "Do you think they will accept her as as their princess?"
                        cried Robin, hopefully.
                    "I submit that it will first be necessary for you  to induce Miss Guile to accept you as her
                        prince," said Gourou mildly. "That doesn't appear
                        to be settled at present."
                    He took alarm. "What do you mean? Your remark has a sinister sound.
                        Has anything transpired to "
                    "She has disappeared, highness, quite effectually. That is all that
                        I can say," said Gourou, and Robin was conscious of a sudden chill
                        and the rush of cold moisture to his brow. "But let us prepare to
                        confront an even more substantial condition. A prospective father-in-law is
                        descending upon our land. He is groping in the dark and he is angry. He has
                        lost a daughter somewhere in the wilds of Europe, and he realises that he
                        cannot hope to become the grandfather of princes unless he can produce a
                        mother for them. At present he seems to be desperate. He doesn't
                        know where to find her, as Little Bo-peep might have said. We may expect to
                        catch him in a very ugly and obstreperous mood. Have I told you that he was
                        in this city last night? He arrived at the Bristol a few hours prior to the
                        significant departure of Miss Guile. Moreover, he has chartered a special
                        train and is leaving to-day for Edelweiss. Count Quinnox has taken the
                        precaution to advise the Prime Minister of his approach and has impressed
                        upon him the importance of decrying any sort of popular demonstration
                        against him on his arrival. Romano reports that the people are in an angry
                        mood. I would suggest that you prepare, in  a
                        way, to placate them, now that Miss Guile has more or less dropped out of
                        sight. I behooves you to "
                    "See here," broke in Robin harshly, "have you had
                        the effrontery to make a personal appeal to Miss Guile in your confounded
                        efforts to prevent the "
                    "Just a moment, Robin," exclaimed Count Quinnox, his face
                        hardening. "I am sorry to hear words of anger on your lips, and
                        directed toward your most loyal friends. You ask us to support you and in
                        the next breath imply that we are unworthy. It is beneath the dignity of
                        either Baron Gourou or myself to reply to your ungenerous charge."
                    "I beg your pardon," said Robin, but without lowering his
                        head. He was not convinced. The barb of suspicion had entered his brain.
                        Were they, after all, responsible for Bedelia's flight? Had they
                        revealed his identity to the girl and afterward created such alarm in her
                        breast that she preferred to slink away in the night rather than to court
                        the humiliation that might follow if she presumed to wed
                        Graustark's prince in opposition to his country's wish?
                        "You must admit that the circumstance of her secret flight last
                        night is calculated to But, no matter. We will drop the subject. I warn you,
                        however, that my mind is fixed. I shall not rest until I have found
                        her."
                    "I fancy that the state of unrest will be general," said
                        Gourou, with perfect good-nature. "It will go very hard with
                        Graustark if we fail to find her. And  now, to
                        return to our original sin: What are we to do about the ambitious Mr.
                        Blithers? He is on my conscience and I tremble."
                    It must not be supposed for an instant that the City of Edelweiss and the
                        court of Graustark was unimpressed by the swift approach and abrupt arrival
                        of Mr. Blithers. His coming had been heralded for days in advance. The city
                        was rudely expectant, the court uneasy. The man who had announced his
                        determination to manage the public and private affairs of the principality
                        was coming to town. He was coming in state, there could be no doubt about
                        that. More than that, he was coming to propitiate the people whether they
                        chose to be mollified or not. He was bringing with him a vast store of
                        business acumen, an unexampled confidence and the self-assurance of one who
                        has never encountered failure. Shylock's mantle rested on his hated
                        shoulders, and Judas Iscariot was spoken of with less abhorrence than
                        William W. Blithers by the Christian country of Graustark. He was coming to
                        get better acquainted with his daughter's future subjects.
                    Earlier in the week certain polite and competent gentlemen from Berlin had
                        appeared at the Castle gates, carrying authority from the dauntless
                        millionaire. They calmly announced that they had come to see what repairs
                        were needed in and about the Castle and to put the place in shape. A most
                        regrettable incident followed. They were chased out of town by an angry mob
                        and serious complications  with the German
                        Empire were likely to be the result of the outrage.
                    Moreover, the citizens of Graustark were openly reluctant to deposit their
                        state bonds as security for the unpopular loan, and there was a lively
                        sentiment in favour of renouncing the agreement entered into by the cabinet.
                    The Prime Minister, in the absence of the Prince, called mass meetings in all
                        the towns and villages and emissaries of the crown addressed the sullen
                        crowds. They sought to clarify the atmosphere. So eloquent were their
                        pleadings and so sincere their promises that no evil would befall the state,
                        that the more enlightened of the people began to deposit their bonds in the
                        crown treasury. Others, impressed by the confidence of their more prosperous
                        neighbours, showed signs of weakening. The situation was made clear to them.
                        There could be no possible chance of loss from a financial point of view.
                        Their bonds were safe, for the loan itself was a perfectly legitimate
                        transaction, a conclusion which could not be gainsaid by the most
                        pessimistic of the objectors. Mr. Blithers would be paid in full when the
                        time came for settlement, the bonds would be restored to their owners, and
                        all would be well with Graustark.
                    As for the huge transactions Mr. Blithers had made in London, Paris and
                        Berlin, there could be but one conclusion: he had the right to invest his
                        money as he pleased. That was his look-out. The bonds of Graustark were open
                        to purchase in any market.  Any investor in
                        the world was entitled to buy all that he could obtain if he felt inclined
                        to put his money to that use. The earnest agents of the government succeeded
                        in convincing the people that Mr. Blithers had made a good investment
                        because he was a good business man. What did it matter to Graustark who
                        owned the outstanding bonds? It might as well be Blithers as Bernstein or
                        any one else.
                    As for Miss Blithers becoming the Princess of Graustark, that was simple
                        poppy-cock, declared the speakers. The crown could take oath that Prince
                        Robin would not allow that to happen. Had he not declared
                        in so many words that he would never wed the daughter of William Blithers,
                        and, for that matter, hadn't the young woman also announced that
                        she would have none of him? There was one thing that Mr. Blithers
                        couldn't do, and that was to marry his daughter to the Prince of
                        Graustark.
                    And so, by the time that Mr. Blithers arrived in Edelweiss, the people were
                        in a less antagonistic frame of mind, though sullenly suspicious, and were
                        even prepared to grin in their sleeves, for, after all, it was quite clear
                        that the joke was not on them but on Mr. Blithers.
                    When the special train pulled into the station Mr. Blithers turned to his
                        wife and said:
                    "Cheer up, Lou. This isn't a funeral."
                    "But there is quite a mob out there," she said, peering
                        through the car window. "How can we be sure that they are
                        friendly?"
                    
                    "Don't you worry," said Mr. Blithers confidently.
                        "They are not likely to throw rocks at the goose that lays the
                        golden egg." If he had paused to think, he would not have uttered
                        such a careless indictment. The time would come when she was to remind him
                        of his thoughtless admission, omitting, however, any reference to the golden
                        egg.
                    The crowd was big, immobile, surly. It lined the sidewalks in the vicinity of
                        the station and stared with curious, half-closed eyes at the portly
                        capitalist and his party, which, by the way, was rendered somewhat imposing
                        in size by augmentation in the shape of lawyers from Paris and London,
                        clerks and stenographers from the Paris office, and four plain clothes men
                        who were to see to it that Midas wasn't blown to smithereens by
                        envious anarchists; to say nothing of a lady's maid, a valet, a
                        private secretary and a doctor. (Mr. Blithers always went prepared for the
                        worst.)
                    He was somewhat amazed and disgruntled by the absence of silk-hat ambassadors
                        from the Castle, with words of welcome for him on his arrival. There was a
                        plentiful supply of policemen but no cabinet mininsters. He was on the point
                        of censuring his secretary for not making it clear to the government that he
                        was due to arrive at such and such an hour and minute, when a dapper young
                        man in uniform he couldn't tell whether he was a patrolman or a
                        captain came up and saluted.
                    "I am William W. Blithers," said he sharply.
                    
                    "I am an official guide and interpreter, sir," announced
                        the young man suavely. "May I have the honour "
                    "Not necessary not necessary at all," exploded Mr.
                        Blithers. "I can get about without a guide."
                    "You will require an interpreter, sir," began the other,
                        only to be waved aside.
                    "Any one desiring to speak to me will have to do it in
                        English," said Mr. Blithers, and marched out to the carriages.
                    He was in some doubt at first, but as his carriage passed swiftly between the
                        staring ranks on the side-walks, he began to doff his hat and bow to the
                        right and the left. His smiles were returned by the multitude, and so his
                        progress was more or less of a triumph after all.
                    At the Regengetz he found additional cause for irritation. The lords and
                        nobles who should have met him at the railway station were as conspicuously
                        absent in the rotunda of the hotel. No one was there to receive him except
                        the ingratiating manager of the establishment, who hoped that he had had a
                        pleasant trip and who assured him that it would not be more than a couple of
                        hours before his rooms would be vacated by the people who now had them but
                        were going away as soon as the procession had passed.
                    "Get 'em out at once," stormed Mr. Blithers.
                        "Do you think I want to hang around this infernal lobby until
                        "
                    "Pardon me," said the manager blandly, "but your
                             rooms will not be ready for you before
                        four or five o'clock. They are occupied. We can put you temporarily
                        in rooms at the rear if your lady desires to rest and refresh herself after
                        the journey."
                    "Well, I'll be " began Mr. Blithers, purple in the
                        face, and then leaned suddenly against the counter, incapable of finishing
                        the sentence.
                    The manager rubbed his hands and smiled. "This is one of our gala
                        days, Mr. Blithers. You could not have arrived at a time more opportune. I
                        have taken the precaution to reserve chairs for you on the verandah. The
                        procession will pass directly in front of the hotel on its way to Castle
                        avenue."
                    "What procession?" demanded Mr. Blithers. He was beginning
                        to recall the presence of uniformed bands and mounted troops in the side
                        streets near the station.
                    "The Prince is returning to-day from his trip around the
                        world," said the manager.
                    "He ought to have been back long ago," said Mr. Blithers
                        wrathfully, and mopped his brow with a hand rendered unsteady by a mental
                        convulsion. He was thinking of his hat-lifting experience.
                    True to schedule, the procession passed the hotel at five. Bands were
                        playing, people were shouting, banners were waving, and legions of mounted
                        and foot soldiers in brilliant array clogged the thoroughfare. The royal
                        equipage rolled slowly by, followed by less gorgeous carriages in which were
                        seated the men who  failed to make the advent
                        of Mr. Blithers a conspicuous success.
                    Prince Robin sat in the royal coach, faced by two unbending officers of the
                        Royal Guard. He was alone on the rear seat, and his brown, handsome face was
                        aglow with smiles. Instead of a hat of silk, he lifted a gay and far from
                        immaculate conception in straw; instead of a glittering uniform, he wore a
                        suit of blue serge and a peculiarly American tie of crimson hue. He looked
                        more like a popular athlete returning from conquests abroad than a prince of
                        ancient lineage. But the crowd cheered itself hoarse over this brightfaced
                        youngster who rode by in a coach of gold and brandished a singularly unregal
                        chapeau.
                    His alert eyes were searching the crowd along the street, in the balconies
                        and windows with an eager intensity. He was looking for the sweet familiar
                        face of the loveliest girl on earth, and knew that he looked in vain, for
                        even though she were one among the many her features would be obscured by an
                        impenetrable veil. If she were there, he wondered what her thoughts might be
                        on beholding the humble R. Schmidt in the rle of a royal prince receiving
                        the laudations of the loving multitude!
                    Passing the Regengetz, his eyes swept the rows of cheering people banked upon
                        its wide terrace and verandahs. He saw Mr. and Mrs. Blithers well down in
                        front, and for a second his heart seemed to stand still. Would she be with
                        them? It was with a distinct  sensation of
                        relief that he realised that she was not with the smiling Americans.
                    Mr. Blithers waved his hat and, instead of shouting the incomprehensible
                        greeting of the native spectators, called out in vociferous tones:
                    "Welcome home! Welcome! Hurrah!"
                    As the coach swerved into the circle and entered the great, tree-lined
                        avenue, followed by the clattering chorus of four thousand horse-shoes, Mrs.
                        Blithers after a final glimpse of the disappearing coach, sighed profoundly,
                        shook out her handkerchief from the crumpled ball she had made of it with
                        her nervously clenched fingers, touched her lips with it and said:
                    "Oh, what a remarkably handsome, manly boy he is, Will."
                    Mr. Blithers nodded his head proudly. "He certainly is.
                        I'll bet my head that Maud is crazy about him already. She
                        can't help it, Lou. That trip on the Jupiter was
                        a God-send."
                    "I wish we could hear something from her," said Mrs.
                        Blithers, anxiously.
                    "Don't you worry," said he.
                        "She'll turn up safe and sound and enthusiastic before
                        she's a week older. We'll have plain sailing from now on,
                        Lou."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXII
                    A VISIT TO THE CASTLE
                    MR. BLITHERS indeed experienced plain
                        sailing for the ensuing twenty hours. It was not until just before he set
                        forth at two the next afternoon to attend, by special appointment, a meeting
                        of the cabinet in the council chamber at the Castle that he encountered the
                        first symptom of squalls ahead.
                    He had sent his secretary to the Castle with a brief note suggesting an early
                        conference. It naturally would be of an informal character, as there was no
                        present business before them. The contracts had already been signed by the
                        government and by his authorised agents. So far as the loan was concerned
                        there was nothing more to be said. Everything was settled. True, it was
                        still necessary to conform to a certain custom by having the Prince affix
                        his signature to the contract over the Great Seal of State, but as he
                        previously had signed an agreement in New York this brief act was of a more
                        or less perfunctory nature.
                    The deposit of bonds by the state and its people would follow in course of
                        time, as prescribed by contract, and Mr. Blithers was required to place in
                        the Bank of Graustark, on such and such a date, the sum of three million
                        pounds sterling. Everybody was satisfied  with
                        the terms of the contract. Mr. Blithers was to get what really amounted to
                        nearly nine percent on a gilt-edged investment, and Graustark was to
                        preserve its integrity and retain its possessions.
                    There was a distant cloud on the financial horizon, however, a vague shadow
                        at present, but prophetic of storm. It was perfectly clear to the nobles
                        that when these bonds matured, Mr. Blithers would be in a position to exact
                        payment, and as they matured in twelve years from date he was likely to be
                        pretty much alive and kicking when the hour of reckoning arrived.
                    Mr. Blithers was in the mood to be amiable. He anticipated considerable
                        pleasure in visiting the ancient halls of his prospective grandchildren.
                        During the forenoon he had taken a motor ride about the city with Mrs.
                        Blithers, accompanied by a guide who created history for them with
                        commendable glibness and some veracity, and pointed out the homes of great
                        personages as well as the churches, monuments and museums. He also told them
                        in a confidential undertone that the Prince was expected to marry a
                        beautiful American girl and that the people were enchanted with the
                        prospect! That sly bit of information realised ten dollars for him at the
                        end of the trip, aside from his customary fee.
                    The first shock to the placidity of Mr. Blithers came with the brief note in
                        reply to his request for an informal conference. The Lord Chamberlain curtly
                        informed him that the Cabinet would be in session at  two and would be pleased to grant him an audience of half an
                        hour, depending on his promptness in appearing.
                    Mr. Blithers was not accustomed to being granted audiences. He had got into
                        the habit of having them thrust upon him. It irritated him tremendously to
                        have any one measure time for him. Why, even the President of the United
                        States, the Senate, or the District Attorney in New York couldn't
                        do that for him. And here was a whipper-snapper Lord
                        Chamberlain telling him that the Cabinet would grant him half-an-hour! He
                        managed to console himself, however, with the thought that matters would not
                        always be as they were at present. There would be a decided change of tune
                        later on.
                    It would be folly to undertake the depiction of Mr. Blithers' first
                        impressions of the Castle and its glories, both inside out. To begin with,
                        he lost no small amount of his assurance when he discovered that the great
                        gates in the wall surrounding the park were guarded by resplendent dragoons
                        who politely demanded his "pass." After the officer in
                        charge had inspected the Lord Chamberlain's card as if he had never
                        seen one before, he ceremoniously indicated to a warden that the gates were
                        to be opened. There was a great clanking of chains, the drawing of iron
                        bolts, the whirl of a windlass, and the ponderous gates swung slowly ajar.
                    Mr. Blithers caught his breath and from that instant until he found himself
                        crossing the great hall  in the wake of an
                        attendant delegated to conduct him to the council chamber his sensations are
                        not to be described. It is only necessary to say that he was in a
                        reverential condition, and that is saying a great deal for Mr. Blithers. A
                        certain bombastic confidence in himself gave way to mellow
                            -imidity. He was in a new world. He was cognisant of
                        a distinct sensation of awe. His ruthless Wall Street tread became a
                        mincing, uncertain shuffle; he could not conquer the absurd notion that he
                        ought to tip-toe his way about these ancient halls with their thick, velvety
                        rugs and whispering shadows.
                    Everywhere about him was pomp, visible and invisible. It was in the great
                        stairway, the vaulted ceilings, the haughty pillars, over all of which was
                        the sheen of an age that surpassed his comprehension. Rigid servitors
                        watched his progress through the vast spaces men with grim, unsmiling faces.
                        He knew, without seeing, that this huge pile was alive with noble lords and
                        ladies: The court! Gallantry and beauty to mock him with their serene
                        indifference!
                    Somewhere in this great house beautiful women were idling, or feasting, or
                        dreaming. He was conscious of their presence all about him, and shrank
                        slightly as he wondered if they were scrutinising his ungainly person. He
                        was suddenly ashamed of his tight-fitting cut-a-way coat and striped
                        trousers. Really he ought to get a new suit! These garments were much too
                        small for him.
                    
                    Were ironic eyes taking in the fresh creases in those New York trousers? Were
                        they regarding his shimmering patent leather shoes with an intelligence that
                        told them that he was in pain? Were they wondering how much he weighed and
                        why he didn't unbutton his coat when he must have known that it
                        would look better if it didn't pinch him so tightly across the
                        chest? Above all things, were they smiling at the corpulent part of him that
                        preceded the rest of his body, clad in an immaculate waistcoat? He never had
                        felt so conspicuous in his life, nor so certain that he was out of place.
                    Coming in due time and with a grateful heart to a small ante-chamber, he was
                        told to sit down and wait. He sat down very promptly. In any other house he
                        would have sauntered around, looking at the emblems, crests and shields that
                        hung upon the walls. But now he sat and wondered. He wondered whether this
                        could be William W. Blithers. Was this one of the richest men in the world
                        this fellow sitting here with his hands folded tightly across his waistcoat?
                        He was forced to admit that it was and at the same time it wasn't.
                    The attendant returned and he was ushered into a second chamber, at the
                        opposite end of which was a large, imposing door closed. Beside this door
                        stood a slim, erect figure in the red, blue and gold uniform of an officer
                        of the Castle guard. As Mr. Blithers approached this rigid figure, he
                        recognised  a friend and a warm glow pervaded
                        his heart. There could be no mistaking the smart moustache and supercilious
                        eye-brows. It was Lieutenant Dank.
                    "How do you do?" said Mr. Blithers. "Glad to see
                        you again." His voice sounded unnatural. He extended his hand.
                    Dank gave him a ceremonious salute, bowed slightly but without a smile, and
                        then threw open the door.
                    "Mr. Blithers, my lords," he announced, and stood aside to
                        let the stranger in a strange land pass within.
                    A number of men were seated about a long table in the centre of this imposing
                        chamber. No one arose as Mr. Blithers entered the room and stopped just
                        inside the door. He heard it close gently behind him. He was at a loss for
                        the first time in his life. He didn't know whether he was to stop
                        just inside the door fingering his hat like a messenger boy, or go forward
                        and join the group. His gaze fell upon a huge oaken chair at the far end of
                        the table. It was the only unoccupied seat that came within the scope of his
                        rather limited vision. He could not see anything beyond the table and the
                        impassive group that surrounded it. Was it possible that the big chair was
                        intended for him? If so, how small and insignificant he would look upon it.
                        He had a ghastly notion that his feet would not touch the floor, and he went
                        so far as to venture the hope that there would be a substantial round
                        somewhere about midway from the bottom.
                    He had appeared before the inquisitorial committees  in the United States Senate, and had not been oppressed by the
                        ponderous gravity of the investigation. He had faced the Senators without a
                        tremor of awe. He had even regarded them with a confidence, equal if not
                        superior to their own. But now he faced a calm, impassive group of men who
                        seemed to strip him down to the flesh with a cool, piercing interest, and
                        who were in no sense impressed by what they saw.
                    Despite his nervousness he responded to the life long habit of calculation.
                        He counted the units in the group in a single, rapid glance, and found that
                        there were eleven. Eleven lords of the realm! Eleven stern, dignified,
                        unsmiling strangers to the arrogance of William W. Blithers! Something told
                        him at once that he could not spend an informal half-hour with them. Grim,
                        striking, serious visages, all of them! The last hope for his well-fed
                        American humour flickered and died. He knew that it would never do to regale
                        them in an informal off-hand way as he had planned with examples of native
                        wit.
                    Reverting to the precise moment of his entrance to the Castle, we find Mr.
                        Blithers saying to himself that there wasn't the slightest use in
                        even hoping that he might be invited to transfer his lodgings from the
                        Regengetz to the Royal bed-chambers. The chance of being invited to dine
                        there seemed to dwindle as well. While he sat and waited in the first
                        antechamber he even experienced strange misgivings in respect to parental
                        privileges later on.
                    After what appeared to him to be an interminable  length of time, but in reality no more than a few seconds, a tall man
                        arose from his seat and advanced with outstretched hand. Mr. Blithers
                        recognised Count Quinnox, the Minister of War. He shook that friendly hand
                        with a fervour that must have surprised the Count. Never in all his life had
                        he been so glad to see any one.
                    "How are you, my lord," said the king of finance, fairly
                        meek with gratefulness.
                    "Excellently well, Mr. Blithers," returned the Count.
                        "And you?"
                    "Never better, never better," said Mr. Blithers, again
                        pumping the Count's hand up and down with even greater heartiness
                        than before. "Glad to see you. Isn't it a pleasant day? I
                        was telling Mrs. Blithers this morning that I'd never seen a
                        pleasanter day. We "
                    "Let me introduce you to my colleagues, Mr. Blithers,"
                        interrupted the Count.
                    "Happy, I'm sure," mumbled Mr. Blithers. To save
                        his life, he couldn't tell what had got into him. He had never
                        acted like this before.
                    The Count was mentioning the names of dukes, counts and barons, and Mr.
                        Blithers was bowing profoundly to each in turn. No one offered to shake
                        hands with him, although each rose politely, even graciously. They even
                        smiled. He remembered that very well afterwards. They smiled kindly, almost
                        benignly. He suddenly realised what had got into him. It was respect.
                    
                    "A chair, Franz," said the white haired, gaunt man who was
                        called Baron Romano. "Will you sit here, Mr. Blithers? Pray forgive
                        our delay in admitting you. We were engaged in a rather serious discussion
                        over "
                    "Oh, that's all right," said Mr. Blithers,
                        magnanimously. "Am I interfering with any important business, gent
                        my lords? If so, just "
                    "Not at all, Mr. Blithers. Pray be seated."
                    "Sure I'm not taking any one's seat?"
                    "A secretary's, sir. He can readily find another."
                    Mr. Blithers sat down. He was rather pleased to find that the big chair was
                        not meant for him. A swift intuition told him that it was reserved for the
                        country's ruler.
                    "The Prince signed the contracts just before you arrived, Mr.
                        Blithers," said Baron Romano. "The seal has been affixed
                        to each of the documents, and your copy is ready for delivery at any
                        time."
                    Mr. Blithers recovered himself slightly. "You may send it to the
                        hotel, Baron, at any time to-morrow. My lawyers will have a look at
                        it." Then he made haste to explain: "Not that it is really
                        necessary, but just as a matter of form. Besides, it gives the lawyers
                        something to do." He sent an investigating glance around the room.
                    "The Prince has retired," said the Baron, divining the
                        thought. "He does not remain for the discussions."
                        Glancing at the huge old clock above the door, the Prime Minister assumed a
                        most business-like  air. "It will
                        doubtless gratify you to know that three-fourths of the bonds have been
                        deposited, Mr. Blithers, and the remainder will be gathered in during the
                        week. Holders living in remote corners of our country have not as yet been
                        able to reach us with their securities. A week will give them sufficient
                        time, will it not, Count Lazzar?"
                    "I may safely say that all the bonds will be in our hands by next
                        Tuesday at the latest," said the Minister of the Treasury. He was a
                        thin, ascetic man; his keen eyes were fixed rather steadily upon Mr.
                        Blithers. After a moment's pause, he went on: "We are
                        naturally interested in your extensive purchases of our outstanding bonds,
                        Mr. Blithers. I refer to the big blocks you have acquired in London, Paris
                        and Berlin."
                    "Want to know what I bought them for?" inquired Mr.
                        Blithers amiably.
                    
                        -'We have wondered not a little at your
                        readiness to invest such a fortune in our securities."
                    "Well, there you have it. Investment, that's all. Your
                        credit is sound, and your resources unquestioned, your bonds gilt-edge. I am
                        glad of the opportunity to take a few dollars out of Wall Street
                        uncertainties and put 'em into something absolutely certain. Groo
                        Gras er Groostock bonds are pretty safe things to have lying in a safety
                        vault in these times of financial unrest. They create a pretty solid fortune
                        for my family, that is to say, for my daughter and her children. A sensible
                        business man,  and I claim to be one, looks
                        ahead, my lords. Railroads are all right as long as you are alive and can
                        run them yourself. It's after you are dead that they fail to do
                        what is expected of them. New fingers get into the pie, and you never can
                        tell what they'll pull out in their greediness. I cannot imagine
                        anything safer in the shape of an investment than the bonds of a nation that
                        has a debt of less than fifty million dollars. As a citizen of a republic
                        whose national debt is nearly a billion, I confess that I can't see
                        how you've managed so well."
                    "We are so infinitesimal, Mr. Blithers, that I daresay we could be
                        lost in the smallest of your states," said Baron Romano, with a
                        smile.
                    "Rhode Island is pretty small," Mr. Blithers informed him,
                        without a smile.
                    "It is most gratifying to Graustark to know that you value our
                        securities so highly as a legacy," said Count Lazzar, suavely.
                        "May I venture the hope, however, that your life may be prolonged
                        beyond the term of their existence? They expire in a very few years a dozen,
                        in fact."
                    "Oh, I think I can hang on that long," said Mr. Blithers, a
                        little more at ease. He was saying to himself that these fellows were not so
                        bad, after all. "Still one never knows. I may be dead in a year. My
                        daughter but, of course, you will pardon me if I don't go into my
                        private affairs. I fear I have already said too much."
                    "On the contrary, sir, we are all only too willing  to be edified. The workings of an
                        intelligence such as yours cannot fail to be of interest to us who are so
                        lacking in the power to cope with great undertakings. I confess to a selfish
                        motive in asking you about your methods of er investment," said the
                        Minister of Finance. Mr. Blithers failed to see that he was shrewdly being
                        led up to a matter that was of more importance to Graustark just then than
                        anything along financial lines.
                    "I am only too willing, my lords, to give you the benefit of my
                        experience. Any questions that you may care to ask, I'll be glad to
                        answer to the best of my ability. It is only natural that I should take a
                        great personal interest in Graustock from now on. I want to see the country
                        on the boom. I want to see it taking advantage of all the opportunities that
                        er come its way. There may be a few pointers that William W. Blithers can
                        give you in respect to your railways and mines and your general policy
                        perhaps. I hope you won't hesitate about asking."
                    The Prime Minister tapped reflectively upon the table-top with his fingers
                        for a moment or two.
                    "Thank you," he said. "We are at this very moment
                        in something of a quandary in respect to the renewal of a treaty with one of
                        our neighbours. For the past twenty years we have been in alliance with our
                        next door neighbours, Axphain on the north and Dawsbergen on the south and
                        east. The triple alliance will end this year unless renewed. Up to the
                        present our relations have been most amiable. Axphain  stands ready to extend our mutual protective agreement for
                        another term of years, but Dawsbergen is lukewarm and inclined to withdraw.
                        When you become better acquainted with the politics of our country you will
                        understand how regrettable such an action on the part of a hitherto friendly
                        government will be."
                    "What's the grievance?" inquired Mr. Blithers,
                        bluntly. He was edging into familiar waters now. "What's
                        the matter with Dawsbergen? Money controversy?"
                    "Not at all," said Lazzar hastily.
                    "Why not let 'em withdraw?" said Mr. Blithers.
                        "We can get along without them."
                    There was a general uplifting of heads at the use of the pronoun, and a more
                        fixed concentration of gaze.
                    "I daresay you are already acquainted with the desire on the part of
                        Dawsbergen to form an alliance in which Axphain can have no part,"
                        said Baron Romano. "In other words, it has been the desire of both
                        Dawsbergen and Graustark to perfect a matrimonial alliance that may cement
                        the fortunes of the two countries "
                    "Count Quinnox mentioned something of the sort,"
                        interrupted Mr. Blithers. "But suppose this matrimonial alliance
                        doesn't come off, who would be the sufferer, you or Dawsbergen? Who
                        will it benefit the most?"
                    There was a moment's silence. Doubtless it had  never occurred to the Ministry to speculate on the point.
                    "Dawsbergen is a rich, powerful country," said Romano.
                        "We will be the gainers by such an alliance, Mr.
                        Blithers."
                    "I don't go much on alliances," said the
                        capitalist. "I believe in keeping out of them if
                        possible."
                    "I see," said the Baron reflectively. There was another
                        silence. Then: "It has come to our notice in a most direct manner
                        that the Prince of Dawsbergen feels that his friendly consideration of a
                        proposal made by our government some years ago is being disregarded in a
                        manner that can hardly be anything but humiliating to him, not only as a
                        sovereign but as a father."
                    "He's the one who has the marriageable daughter, eh? I had
                        really forgotten the name."
                    The Baron leaned forward, still tapping the tabletop with his long, slim
                        fingers.
                    "The report that Prince Robin is to marry your daughter, Mr.
                        Blithers, has reached his ears. It is only natural that he should feel
                        resentful. For fifteen years there has been an understanding that the Crown
                        Princess of Dawsbergen and the Prince of Graustark were one day to be wedded
                        to each other. You will admit that the present reports are somewhat
                        distressing to him and unquestionably so to the Crown Princess."
                    Mr. Blithers settled back in his chair. "It seems  to me that he is making a mountain out of a
                        molehill."
                    Baron Romano shrank perceptibly. "It devolves upon me, sir, as
                        spokesman for the Ministry, the court and the people of Graustark, to inform
                        you that marriage between our Prince and any other than the Crown Princess
                        of Dawsbergen is not to be considered as possible."
                    Mr. Blithers stared. "Hasn't the Prince any voice in the
                        matter?" he demanded.
                    "Yes. He has already denied, somewhat publicly, that he is not
                        contemplating marriage with your daughter. He has had a voice in that matter
                        at least."
                    A fine moisture started out on the purplish brow of Mr. Blithers. Twenty-two
                        eyes were upon him. He realised that he was not attending an informal
                        conference. He had been brought here for a deliberate purpose.
                    "I may be permitted the privilege of reminding you, my lords, that
                        his denial was no more emphatic than that expressed by my
                        daughter," he said, with real dignity.
                    "We have accepted her statement as final, but it is our earnest
                        desire that the minds of the people be set at rest," said the Baron
                        gravely. "I sincerely trust that you will appreciate our position,
                        Mr. Blithers. It is not our desire or intention to offend in this matter,
                        but we believe it to be only fair and  just
                        that we should understand each other at the outset. The impression is afoot
                        that "
                    "My lords," said Mr. Blithers, rising, his face suddenly
                        pale, "I beg leave to assure you that my daughter's
                        happiness is of far more importance to me than all the damned principalities
                        in the world. Just a moment, please. I apologise for the oath but I mean it,
                        just the same. I do not resent your attitude, nor do I resent your haste in
                        conveying to me your views on the subject. It may be diplomacy to go
                        straight to a question and get it over with, but it isn't always
                        diplomatic to go off half-cocked. I will say, with perfect candour, that I
                        should like to see my daughter the Princess of Graustark, but by God! I want
                        you to understand that her own wishes in the matter are to govern mine in
                        the end. I have had this marriage in mind, there's no use denying
                        it. I have schemed to bring these two young people together with a single
                        object in view. I knew that if they saw enough of each other they would fall
                        in love, and they would want the happiness that love brings to all people.
                        Just a moment, Baron! I want to say to you now, all of you, that if my girl
                        should love your prince and he should love her in return, there
                        isn't a power below heaven that can keep them apart. If she
                        doesn't love him, and he should be unlucky enough to love her,
                        I'd see him hanged before he could have her. I'll admit
                        that I have counted on seeing all of this come to pass, and that I have
                        bungled the thing pretty badly because I'm a loving, selfish
                        father,  but, my lords, since you have brought
                        me here to tell me that it is impossible for my girl to marry your prince, I
                        will say to you, here and now, that if they ever love each other and want to
                        get married, I'll see to it that it isn't impossible. You
                        issue an ultimatum to me, in plain words, so I'll submit one to
                        you, in equally plain words. I intend to leave this matter entirely to my
                        daughter and Prince Robin. They are to do the deciding, so far as I am
                        concerned. And if they decide that they love each other and want to get
                        married, they will get married. Do I make myself perfectly
                        plain, my lords?"
                    The dignified Ministry of Graustark sat agape. With his concluding words, Mr.
                        Blithers deposited his clenched fist upon the table with a heavy thud, and,
                        as if fascinated, every eye shifted from his face to the white knuckles of
                        that resolute hand.
                    Baron Romano also arose. "You place us in the extremely distressing
                        position of being obliged to oppose the hand of a benefactor, Mr. Blithers.
                        You have come to our assistance in a time of need. You have "
                    "If it is the loan you are talking about, Baron, that is quite
                        beside the question," interrupted Mr. Blithers. "I do not
                        speculate. I may have had a personal motive in lending you this money, but I
                        don't believe you will find that it enters into the contract we
                        have signed. I don't lend money for charity's sake. I
                        sometimes give it to charity, but when it comes to business, I am not
                        charitable. I have made  a satisfactory loan
                        and I am not complaining. You may leave out the word benefactor, Baron. It
                        doesn't belong in the game."
                    "As you please, sir," said Romano coldly. "We were
                        only intent upon conveying to you our desire to maintain friendly relations
                        with you, Mr. Blithers, despite the unpleasant conditions that have arisen.
                        I may at least question your right to assume that we are powerless to
                        prevent a marriage that is manifestly unpopular with the subjects of Prince
                        Robin."
                    "I had it on excellent authority to-day that the people are not
                        opposed to the union of my daughter and the prince," said Mr.
                        Blithers.
                    "I am compelled to say that you have been misinformed,"
                        said the Baron, flatly.
                    "I think I have not been misinformed, however, concerning the
                        personal views of Prince Robin. If I am not mistaken, he openly declares
                        that he will marry to suit himself and not the people of Graustark.
                        Isn't it barely possible, my lords, that he may have something to
                        say about who he is to marry?"
                    "I confess that his attitude is all that you describe,"
                        said the Baron. "He has announced his views quite plainly. We admit
                        that he may have something to say about it."
                    "Then I submit that it isn't altogether an improbability
                        that he may decide to marry according to the dictates of his heart and not
                        for the sake of appearances," said Mr. Blithers scathingly.
                        "I have an  idea that he will marry
                        the girl he loves, no matter who she may be."
                    Count Quinnox and Baron Gourou exchanged glances. These two men were guilty
                        of having kept from their colleagues all information concerning a certain
                        Miss Guile. They, as well as Dank, were bound by a promise exacted by their
                        sovereign prince. They alone knew that Mr. Blithers was supported by an
                        incontrovertible truth. For the present, their lips were sealed, and yet
                        they faced that anxious group with a complete understanding of the
                        situation. They knew that Mr. Blithers was right. Prince Robin would marry
                        the girl that he loved, and no other. They knew that their prince expected
                        to marry the daughter of the man who now faced these proud noblemen and
                        virtually defied them!
                    "Am I not right, Count Quinnox?" demanded Mr. Blithers,
                        turning suddenly upon the Minister of War. "You are in a position
                        to know something about him. Am I not right?"
                    Every eye was on the Count. "Prince Robin will marry for love, my
                        lords," he said quietly. "I am forced to agree with Mr.
                        Blithers."
                    Baron Romano sank into his chair. There was silence in the room for many
                        seconds.
                    "May I enquire, Count Quinnox, if you know anything of the present
                        state of Prince Robin's er heart?" inquired the Prime
                        Minister finally.
                    A tinge of red appeared in each of Count Quinnox's swarthy cheeks.
                    
                    "I can only surmise," said he briefly. "Has has he
                        met some one in whom he feels a er an interest?"
                    "Yes."
                    "May we have the benefit of your conclusions?" said Baron
                        Romano, icily.
                    "I am not at liberty to supply information at present,"
                        said the Count, visibly distressed.
                    Mr. Blithers leaned forward, his hands upon the table. "Some one he
                        met after leaving New York?" he inquired eagerly.
                    "Time will reveal everything, Mr. Blithers," said the
                        Count, and closed his jaws resolutely. His colleagues looked at him in
                        consternation. The worst, then, had happened!
                    A gleam of triumph shot into the eyes of Mr. Blithers. His heart swelled. He
                        felt himself stepping out upon safe, solid ground after a period of
                        floundering. The very best, then, had happened!
                    "My lords, I find that my half-hour is almost up," he said,
                        pulling out his gold watch and comparing its time with that of the clock on
                        the wall. "Permit me to take my departure. I am content to let
                        matters shape themselves as they may. Shakespeare says 'there is a
                        destiny that shapes our ends, rough hew them' er and so forth.
                        Allow me, however, before leaving, to assure you of my most kindly interest
                        in the welfare of your State. You may be pleased to know that it is not from
                        me that Graustark did I get it right that time? will redeem her bonds when
                             they mature, but from my only daughter.
                        She is nearly twenty-one years of age. On her twenty-fifth birthday I shall
                        present to her as a gift all of my holdings in Graustark. She may do as she
                        sees fit with them. Permit me to wish you all good day, my lords. You may
                        send the contract to my hotel, Baron. I expect to remain in the city for
                        some time."
                    As he traversed the vast halls on his way to the outer world, he was again
                        overcome by the uneasy conviction that ironic eyes were looking out upon him
                        from luxurious retreats. Again he felt that his coat fitted him too tightly
                        and that his waistcoat was painfully in evidence. He hurried a bit. If he
                        could have had his way about it, he would have run. Once outside the castle
                        doors, he lighted a big cigar, and threw the burnt-out match upon the
                        polished flagstones of the terrace. He regretted the act on the instant. He
                        wished he had not thrown it there. If the solemn grooms had not been
                        watching, he would have picked it up and stuck it into his pocket for
                        disposal on the less hallowed stones of a city thoroughfare.
                    Outside the gates he felt more at ease, more at home, in fact. He smoked in
                        great contentment. In the broad, shady avenue he took out his watch and
                        pried open the case. A great pride filled his eyes as he looked upon the
                        dainty miniature portrait of his daughter Maud. She was
                        lovely she was even lovelier than he had ever thought before.
                    
                    At the Regengetz a telegram awaited him. It was from Maud.
                    "I shall be in Edelweiss this week without fail. I have something
                        very important to tell you." So it read.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIII
                    PINGARI'S
                    NINE o'clock of a rainy night, on the steep,
                        winding road that climed the mountain-side from the walled-in city to the
                        crest on which stood the famed monastery of St. Valentine, nine
                        o'clock of a night fraught with pleasurable anticipation on the
                        part of one R. Schmidt, whose eager progress up the slope was all too slow
                        notwithstanding the encouragement offered by the conscienceless Jehu who
                        frequently beat his poor steeds into a gallop over level stretches and never
                        allowed them to pause on the cruel grades.
                    Late in the afternoon there had come to the general post-office a letter for
                        Mr. R. Schmidt. He had told her that any message intended for him would
                        reach his hands if directed to the post-office. Since his arrival in the
                        city, three days before, he had purposely avoided the main streets and
                        avenues of Edelweiss, venturing forth but seldom from the Castle grounds,
                        and all because he knew that he could not go abroad during the day-time
                        without forfeiting the privileges to be enjoyed in emulation of the good
                        Caliphs of Baghdad. His people would betray their prince because they loved
                        him: his passage through the streets could only be attended by respectful
                        homage on the part of every man, woman and child in the place. If Bedelia
                        were there, she could not help knowing who 
                        and what he was, with every one stupidly lifting his hat and bowing to him
                        as he passed, and he did not want Bedelia to know the truth about him until
                        she had answered an all-important question, as has been mentioned before on
                        more than one occasion in the course of this simple tale.
                    Her letter was brief. She merely acquainted him with the fact that she had
                        arrived in Edelweiss that day from Ganlook, twenty miles away, and was
                        stopping at the Inn of the Stars outside the city gates and half way up the
                        mountain-side, preferring the quiet, ancient tavern to the stately Regengetz
                        for reasons of her own.
                    In closing she said that she would be delighted to see him when it was
                        convenient for him to come to her. On receipt of this singularly
                        matter-of-fact letter, he promptly despatched a message to Miss Guile, Inn
                        of the Stars, saying that she might expect him at nine that night.
                    Fortunately for him, the night was wet and blustering. He donned a rain-coat,
                        whose cape and collar served to cover the lower part of his face fairly
                        well, and completed his disguise by pulling far down over his eyes the
                        villainous broad-brimmed hat affected by the shepherds in the hills. He had
                        a pair of dark eye-glasses in reserve for the crucial test that would come
                        with his entrance to the Inn.
                    Stealing away from the Castle at night, he entered the ram-shackle cab that
                        Hobbs had engaged for the  expedition, and
                        which awaited him not far from the private entrance to the Park. Warders at
                        the gate looked askance as he passed them by, but not one presumed to
                        question him. They winked slyly at each other, however, after he had
                        disappeared in the shadows beyond the rays of the feeble lanterns that they
                        carried. It was good to be young!
                    The driver of that rattling old vehicle was no other than the versatile
                        Hobbs, who, it appears, had rented the outfit for a fixed sum, guaranteeing
                        the owner against loss by theft, fire or dissolution. It is not even
                        remotely probable that the owner would have covered the ground so quickly as
                        Hobbs, and it is certain that the horses never suspected that they had it in
                        them.
                    The mud-covered vehicle was nearing the Inn of the Stars when Robin stuck his
                        head out of the window and directed Hobbs to drive slower.
                    "Very good, sir," said Hobbs. "I thought as how we
                        might be late after losing time at the city gates, sir, wot with that silly
                        guard and the "
                    "We are in good time, Hobbs. Take it easy."
                    The lights of the Inn were gleaming through the drizzle not more than a block
                        away. Robin's heart was thumping furiously. Little chills ran over
                        him, delicious chills of excitement. His blood was hot and cold, his nerves
                        were tingling. The adventure!
                    "Whoa!" said Hobbs suddenly. "'Ello, wot
                        the 'ell is "
                    
                    A dark figure had sprung into the road-way near the horses' heads,
                        and was holding up a warning hand.
                    "Is this Mr. Schmidt's carriage?" demanded a
                        hoarse, suppressed voice.
                    "It is," said Hobbs, "for the time being. Wot of
                        it?"
                    Robin's head came through the window.
                    "What do you want?"
                    "Some one is coming out here to meet you, sir. Do not drive up to
                        the doors. Those are the orders. You are to wait here, if you
                        please."
                    Then the man shot away into the darkness, leaving the wayfarers mystified by
                        his words and action.
                    "Wot am I to do, sir?" inquired Hobbs. "Most
                        hextraordinary orders, and who the deuce is behind them, that's wot
                        I'd like to know."
                    "We'll wait here, Hobbs," said Robin, and then put
                        his hand suddenly to his heart. It was acting very queerly. For a moment he
                        thought it was in danger of pounding its way out of his body!
                    Below him lay the lighted city, a great yellow cloud almost at his feet.
                        Nearer, on the mountain-side were the misty lights in the windows of
                        dwellers on the slope, and at points far apart the street lamps, dim
                        splashes of light in the gloom. Far above were the almost obscured lights of
                        St. Valentine, hanging in the sky. He thought of the monks up there. What a
                        life! He would not be a monk, not he.
                    "My word!" exclaimed Hobbs, but instantly resumed his
                        character as cabby.
                    
                    A woman came swiftly out of the blackness and stopped beside the cab. She was
                        swathed in a long gossamer, and hooded. The carriage lamps gleamed strong
                        against the dripping coat.
                    "Is it you?" cried Robin, throwing open the door and
                        leaping to the ground.
                    "It is I, M'sieur," said the voice of Marie, Miss
                        Guile's French maid.
                    Bleak disappointment filled his soul. He had hoped for but no! He might have
                        known. She would not meet him in this manner.
                    "What has happened?" he cried, grasping the girl's
                        arm. "Has she "
                    "Sh! May we not speak in French?" said Marie, lowering her
                        voice after a significant look at the motionless cabman. "He may
                        understand English, M'sieur. My mistress has sent me to say to
                        M'sieur that she has changed her mind."
                    "Changed her mind," gasped Robin.
                    "Yes, M'sieur. She will not receive you at the Inn of the
                        Stars. She bids you drive to the end of this street, where there is a garden
                        with a Magyar band, and the most delicious of refreshments to be had under
                        vine-covered "
                    "A public garden?" exclaimed Robin in utter dismay.
                    "Pingari's, sir," said Hobbs, without thinking.
                        "I know the place well. It is a very quiet, orderly place I beg
                        pardon!"
                    
                    "So he understands French, eh?" cried Marie sharply.
                    "It doesn't matter," cried Robin impatiently.
                        "Why, in heaven's name, did she select a public
                        eating-house in which to receive me?"
                    "If M'sieur chooses to disregard the wishes of "
                        began the maid, but he interrupted her.
                    "I am not accustomed to meeting people in public gardens. I
                        "
                    "Nor is my mistress, M'sieur. I assure you it is the first
                        time she has committed an indiscretion of this kind. May I put a flea in
                        M'sieur's ear? The place is quite empty to-night, and
                        besides there is the drive back to the Inn with Mademoiselle. Is not that
                        something, M'sieur?"
                    "By jove!" exclaimed Robin. "Drive on, you! But
                        wait! Let me take you to the Inn, Marie. It "
                    "No! I may not accept M'sieur's thoughtful
                        invitation. Bon soir, M'sieur."
                    She was off like a flash. Robin leaped nimbly into the cab.
                    "Pingari's, driver!" he said, his heart thumping
                        once more.
                    "Very good, sir," and they were off at a lively rate,
                        rattling quite gaily over the cobble-stones.
                    Pingari's is the jumping-off place. It stands at the sharp corner of
                        an elbow in the mountain, with an almost sheer drop of a thousand feet into
                        the quarries below. A low-roofed, rambling building, once  used as a troop-house for nomadic
                        fighting-men who came from all parts of the principality on draft by feudal
                        barons in the days before real law obtained, it was something of a historic
                        place. Parts of the structure are said to be no less than five hundred years
                        old, but time and avarice have relegated history to a rather uncertain
                        background, and unless one is pretty well up in the traditions of the town,
                        he may be taken in nicely by shameless attendants who make no distinction
                        between the old and the new so long as it pays them to procrastinate.
                    As a matter of fact, the walls of the ancient troop-house surround what is
                        now considered the kitchen, and one never steps inside of them unless he
                        happens to be connected in a somewhat menial way with the green grocer, the
                        fish-monger, the butcher or the poultry-man. The wonderful vine-covered
                        porches, reeking with signs of decay and tottering with age, are in truth
                        very substantial affairs constructed by an ancestor of the present Signor
                        Pingari no longer ago than the Napoleonic era which is quite recent as
                        things go in Graustark.
                    Hobbs drove bravely into the court yard, shouted orders to a couple of
                        hostlers and descended from the box. The Magyar band was playing blithely to
                        the scattered occupants of the porches overlooking the precipice.
                    " 'Ere we are, sir," said he to the Prince, as he
                        jerked open the door of the cab. "Shall I wait sir?"
                    
                    "Certainly," said Robin, climbing out. "I am a
                        long way from home, my good man."
                    He hurried up the steps and cast an eye about the place. There were no ladies
                        unattached. As he was about to start on a tour of investigation, a polite
                        person in brass buttons came up to him.
                    "Alone, sir?" he inquired pityingly.
                    "Quite," said Robin, still peering into the recesses.
                    "Then come with me, if you please. I am directed to escort you to
                        one who is also alone. This way, sir."
                    Robin followed him through a door, down a narrow hallway, up a flight of
                        stairs and out another door upon a small portico, sheltered by a heavy
                        canvas awning. Two men were standing at the railing, looking down upon the
                        impressionistic lights of the sunken city. The Prince drew back, his face
                        hardening.
                    "What does this mean, sirrah? You said "
                    At the sound of his voice the two men turned, stared at him intently for an
                        instant and then deliberately strode past him, entered the door and
                        disappeared. The person in brass buttons followed them.
                    A soft, gurgling laugh fell upon his ears a laugh of pure delight. He whirled
                        about and faced one who was no longer alone.
                    She was seated at the solitary little table in the corner; until now it had
                        escaped his notice for the excellent reason that it was outside the path of
                        light  from the open doorway, and the faint
                        glow from the adjacent porches did not penetrate the quiet retreat.
                    He sprang toward her with a glad cry, expecting her to rise. She remained
                        seated, her hand extended. This indifference on her part may have been the
                        result of cool premeditation. In any event, it served to check the impulsive
                        ardour of the Prince, who, it is to be feared, had lost something in the way
                        of self-restraint. It is certain absolutely certain that had she come
                        forward to meet him, she would have found herself imprisoned in a pair of
                        strong, eager arms, and a crisis precipitated. He had to be content with a
                        warm hand-clasp and a smile of welcome that even the gloom could not hide
                        from his devouring eyes.
                    "My dear, dear Bedelia," he murmured. "I had
                        almost given you up. Three long days have I waited for you. You "
                    "I have never broken a promise, Rex," she said coolly.
                        "It is you who are to be commended, not I, for you see I was coming
                        to Graustark anyway. I should not have been surprised if you had failed me,
                        sir. It is a long way from Vienna to this out-of-the-way "
                    "The most distant spot in the world would not have been too far away
                        to cause an instant's hesitation on my part," said he,
                        dropping into the chair opposite her. "I would go to the end of the
                        world, Bedelia."
                    
                    "But your personal affairs your business," she protested.
                        "Can you neglect it so "
                    "My business is to find happiness," said he. "I
                        should be neglecting it indeed if I failed to pursue the only means of
                        attaining it. You are happiness, Bedelia."
                    "What would you sacrifice for happiness?" she asked softly.
                    "All else in the world," he replied steadily. "If
                        I were a king, my realm should go if it stood between me and you,
                        Bedelia."
                    She drew back with a queer little gasp, as if suddenly breathless.
                    "Wait wait just for a moment," she said, with difficulty
                        steadying her voice. "This night may see the end of our adventure,
                        Rex. Let us think well before we say that it is over. I know, if you do not,
                        that a great deal depends upon what we are to say to each other to-night.
                        You will ask me to be your wife. Are you sure that you appreciate all that
                        it means to you and to your future if I should say yes to that dear
                        question?"
                    He looked at her intently. "What do you know, Bedelia?"
                    "I know that you are the Prince of Graustark and that it is ordained
                        that you shall wed one whose station is the equal of your own. You must
                        think well, dear Rex, before you ask Bedelia Guile to be your
                        wife."
                    "You know that I am " he began, dully, and then 
                        
                            The dignified Ministry of Graustark sat agape
                        
                         burst into a mirthless laugh. "And
                        knowing who I am, why do you not leap at the chance to become the Princess
                        of Graustark? Why not realise an ambition that "
                    "Hush! You see how well I considered when I advised you to think
                        before speaking? You are now saying things that are unworthy of you. You are
                        forgetting that it is my privilege to say no to the am in search of
                        happiness. I too "
                    He stood up, leaning far over the table, a penetrating look in his eyes.
                    "How long have you known, Bedelia?"
                    "Since the second day out on the Jupiter," she replied serenely.
                    He slowly resumed his seat, overwhelmed by the sickening realisation that his
                        bubble had burst. She had known from the beginning. She had played with him.
                        She had defied him!
                    "I know what you are thinking, Rex," she said, almost
                        pleadingly. "You are thinking ill of me, and you are unjust. It was
                        as fair for me as it was for you. We played a cautious game. You set about
                        to win my love as you saw fit, my friend, and am I to be condemned if I
                        exercised the same privilege? I was no more deliberate, no more
                        reprehensible than you. Am I more guilty of deceit than you?"
                    He gave a great sigh of relief. "You are right," he said.
                        "It is my turn to confess. I have known  for many days that you are not Bedelia Guile. We are
                        quits."
                    She laughed softly. "I rather like Bedelia. I think I shall keep it
                        as a good-luck name. We have now arrived at the time for a profound
                        contemplation of the results of our experiments. In the meantime, I have had
                        no dinner. I trust that the Prince of Graustark has dined so lightly that he
                        will not decline to share my repast with me. It has already been ordered for
                        two."
                    "By jove, you you amaze me!" he exclaimed.
                    "Please remove that dreadful mackintosh and touch the bell for me.
                        You see, I am a very prosaic person, after all. Even in the face of disaster
                        I can have a craving for food and drink. That's better."
                    In a sort of daze, he tapped the little table bell. A waiter appeared on the
                        instant.
                    "Give us more light, waiter," was her command,
                        "and serve dinner at once."
                    The lights went up, and Robin looked into her soft, smiling eyes.
                    "It doesn't matter," he whispered hoarsely.
                        "I don't care what happens to me, Bedelia, I I shall never
                        give you up. You are worth all the kingdoms in the world. You are the
                        loveliest, most adorable "
                    "Hush! The eyes of your people are upon you. See! Even the waiter
                        recognises his prince. He is overcome. Ah! He falters with the consomm. It
                        is a perilous moment. There! I knew something 
                        would happen, poor fellow. He has spilled but, all is well; he has his wits
                        again. See! He replenishes from the steaming tureen. We are saved."
                    Her mood was so gaily satiric, so inconsequential, that he allowed a
                        wondering, uncertain smile to banish the trouble from his eyes as he leaned
                        back in the chair and studied the vivid, excited face of the girl who had
                        created havoc with his senses. She was dressed as he had seen her on board
                        the Jupiter during those delightful days on deck: the same
                        trim figure in a blue serge suit and a limp white hat, drawn well down over
                        her soft brown hair, with the smart red tie and the never-to-be-forgotten
                        scent of a perfume that would linger in his nostrils forever and forever.
                    "Do you think it strange that I should have asked you to meet me
                        here in this unconventional way instead of at the Inn?" she
                        inquired, suddenly serious. Again the shy, pleading expression stole into
                        her eyes.
                    "I did think so, but no longer. I am glad that we are
                        here."
                    "Mrs. Gaston is inside," she informed him quickly.
                        "I do not come alone. An hour ago the Inn became quite impossible
                        as a trysting place. A small party from the Regengetz arrived for dinner.
                        Can you guess who is giving the dinner? The great and only William W.
                        Blithers, sir, who comes to put an obstinate daughter upon the throne of
                        Graustark, whether she will or no."
                    "Did he see you?" cried Robin.
                    "No," she answered, with a mischievous gleam in  her eyes. "I stole out through the
                        back door, and sent Marie out with one of the porters to head you off. Then
                        I came on here. I didn't even stop to change my gown."
                    "Hide and seek is a bully game," said he. "It
                        can't last much longer, Bedelia. I think it is only right that we
                        should go to your father and tell him that everything is all right. It is
                        his due. You've solved your own problem and are satisfied, so why
                        not reveal yourself. There is nothing to be gained by further
                        secrecy."
                    She was watching him closely. "Are you, after all is said and done,
                        sure that you want to marry the daughter of William Blithers, in the face of
                        all the bitter consequences that may follow such an act? Think hard, my
                        dear. She is being forced upon you, in a way. Mr. Blithers' money
                        is behind her. Your people are opposed to the bargain, for that is the way
                        in which they will look upon it. They may act very harshly toward you. The
                        name of Blithers is detested in your land. His daughter is reviled. Are you
                        sure that you want to marry her, Re Robin?"
                    "Are you through?" he asked, transfixing her with a
                        determined look. "Well, then, I'll answer you. I do want
                        to marry you, and, more than that, I mean to marry you. I love "
                    "You may tell me, Robin, as we are driving back to the Inn together
                        not here, not now," she said softly, the lovelight in her eyes.
                    Happiness blurred his vision. He was thrilled by  an enchantment so stupefying that the power of speech, almost of thought,
                        was denied him for the time being. He could only sit and stare at her with
                        prophetic love in his eyes, love that bided its time and trembled with
                        anticipation.
                    Long afterward, as they were preparing to leave Pingari's she said
                        to him:
                    "My father is at the Inn, Robin. I ran away from him to-night
                        because I wanted to be sure that our adventure was closed before I revealed
                        myself to him. I wanted to be able to say to him that love will find its
                        way, no matter how blind it is, nor how vast the world it has to traverse in
                        search of its own. My father is at the Inn. Take me to him now, Robin, and
                        make the miracle complete."
                    His fingers caressed her warm cheek as he adjusted the collar of the long
                        seacoat about her throat and chin. Her eyes were starry bright, her red lips
                        were parted.
                    "My Princess!" he whispered tenderly. "My
                        Princess!"
                    "My Prince," she said so softly that the words barely
                        reached his ears. "We have proved that Love is the king. He rules
                        us all. He laughs at lock-smiths and fathers but he does not laugh at
                        sweethearts. Come, I am ready."
                    He handed her into the cab a moment later, and drew the long deep breath of
                        one who goes down into deep water. Then he followed after her. The attendant
                        closed the door.
                    
                    "Where to, sir?" called Hobbs from the driver's
                        seat.
                    He received no answer, yet cracked his whip gaily over the horses'
                        backs and drove out into the slanting rain.
                    Hobbs was a dependable fellow. He drove the full length of the street twice,
                        passing the Inn of the Stars both times at a lively clip, and might have
                        gone on forever in his shuttlecock enterprise, had not the excited voice of
                        a woman hailed him from the sidewalk.
                    "Stop! Attendez! You! Man!"
                    He pulled up with a jerk. The dripping figure of Marie ran up from behind.
                    "My mistress? Where is she?" panted the girl.
                    "In heaven," said Hobbs promptly, whereupon Marie pounded
                        on the glass window of the cab.
                    Robin quickly opened the door.
                    "Wha what is it?"
                    "Yes, Marie," came in muffled toned from the depths of the
                        cab.
                    "Madame Gaston returns long ago. She is beside herself. She is like
                        a maniac. She has lost you; she cannot explain to to Mademoiselle's
                        father. Mon dieu, when he met her unexpectedly in the hall, he shouts,
                        'where is my daughter?' And poor Madame she has but to
                        shiver and stammer and run away! Oui! She dash out into
                        the rain! It is terrible. She "
                    
                    Bedelia broke in upon this jumbled recitation. "Where have we been,
                        Robin? Where are we now?"
                    "Where are we, Hobbs?"
                    "We are just getting back to the Inn of the Stars, sir, descending,
                        you might say, sir," said Hobbs.
                    "Drive on, confound you."
                    "To the Inn, sir?"
                    "Certainly!"
                    The door slammed and the final block was covered in so short a time that
                        Robin's final kiss was still warm on Bedelia's lips when
                        the gallant cab rolled up to the portals of the Inn of the Stars.
                    "Did you ever know such a night, sir?" inquired Hobbs, as
                        the Prince handed his lady out. He was referring to the weather.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIV
                    JUST WHAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN EXPECTED
                    EVEN the most flamboyant of natures may suffer depression
                        at times, and by the same token arrogance may give way to humility, or, at
                        the very least, conviction.
                    Mr. Blithers had had a trying day of it. To begin with, his wife raked him
                        over the coals for what she was pleased to call his senseless persistence in
                        the face of what she regarded as unalterable opposition on the part of the
                        Cabinet and House of Nobles. It appears that he had experienced a second
                        encounter with the Ministry only the day before. After sleeping over the
                        results of his first visit to the Council Chamber, he awoke to the fact that
                        matters were in such a condition that it behooved him to strike while the
                        iron was hot. So he obtained a second hearing, principally because he had
                        not slept as well over it as he would have liked, and secondarily because he
                        wanted to convince himself that he could parade their ancient halls without
                        feeling as self-conscious as a whipped spaniel.
                    He came off even worse in his second assault upon the ministry, for this time
                        the members openly sneered at his declarations. As for his progress through
                        the enchanted halls he was no end worse off than before.  It so happened that he arrived at the castle
                        at the very hour when the ladies and gentlemen of the royal household were
                        preparing to fare forth to the tennis courts. He came upon them, first on
                        the terrace, then in the entrance, and later on was stared at with evident
                        curiosity by white flanneled and duck-skirted persons in the lofty halls. He
                        wished that he was back at Blitherwood where simplicity was not so
                        infernally common.
                    He made the mistake of his life when he gave to his wife the details of this
                        second conference with the Cabinet. He did it in the hope that a sympathetic
                        response would be forthcoming. To his surprise, she merely pitied him, but
                        in such a disgustingly personal way that he wondered if he could ever
                        forgive her.
                    "Can't you appreciate what I am doing for Maud?"
                        he argued, almost tearfully.
                    "I can appreciate what you are doing to
                        her," said she, and swept out of the room.
                    "It's bad enough to have one stubborn woman in the
                        family," said he to himself, glaring at the closed door which had
                        been slammed, by the way, "but two of 'em Good
                        Lord!"
                    And so it was that Mr. Blithers, feeling in need of cheer, arranged a little
                        dinner for that evening, at the Inn of the Stars. He first invited his
                        principal London lawyer and his wife who happened to be his principal and then sent a more or less peremptory invitation to
                        the President of the Bank of Graustark, urging him to join the party at the
                        Regengetz  and motor to the Inn. He was to
                        bring his wife and any friends that might be stopping with them at the time.
                        The banker declined. His wife had been dead for twenty years; the only
                        friends he possessed were directors in the bank, and they happened to be
                        having a meeting that night. So Mr. Blithers invited his secondary London
                        lawyer, his French lawyer and two attractive young women who it appears were
                        related to the latter, although at quite a distance, and then concluded that
                        it was best to speak to his own wife about the little affair. She said she
                        couldn't even think of going. Maud might arrive that very night and
                        she certainly was not going out of the hotel with such an event as that in
                        prospect.
                    "But Simpson's wife is coming," protested Mr.
                        Blithers, "and Pericault's cousins. Certainly you must
                        come. Jolly little affair to liven us up a bit. Now Lou,"
                    "I am quite positive that Lady Simpson will change her mind when she
                        hears that Pericault's cousins are going," said Mrs.
                        Blithers acidly.
                    "Anything the matter with Pericault's cousins?" he
                        demanded, inclined to the bellicose.
                    "Ask Pericault," she replied briefly.
                    He thought for a moment. "If that's the case, Lou,
                        you'll have to come, if only to save my reputation," he
                        said. "I didn't think it of Pericault. He seems less like
                        a Frenchman than any man I've ever known."
                    Mrs. Blithers relented. She went to the dinner and  so did Lady Simpson, despite Pericault's cousins, and
                        the only ones in the party who appeared to be uneasy were the cousins
                        themselves. It is safe to say that it was not the rain that put a dampener
                        on what otherwise might have been an excessively jovial party.
                    Stupendous was the commotion at the Inn of the Stars when it became known
                        that one of the richest men in the world and a possible father-in-law
                        apparent to the crown, was to honour the place with his presence that night.
                        Every one, from the manager down to the boy who pared potatoes, laid himself
                        out to make the occasion a memorable one.
                    The millionaire's table was placed in the very centre of the
                        dining-room, and plates were laid for eight. At the last minute, Mr.
                        Blithers ordered the number increased to nine.
                    "My daughter may put in an appearance," he explained to
                        Lady Simpson. "I have left word at the hotel for her to come up if
                        by any chance she happens to arrive on the evening train."
                    "Haven't you heard from her, Mr. Blithers?"
                        inquired the austere lady, regarding the top of his head with an
                        illy-directed lorgnon.
                    They were entering the long, low dining-room. Mr. Blithers resented the
                        scrutiny: It was lofty and yet stooping. She seemed to be looking down upon
                        him at right angles, due no doubt to her superior height and to the fact
                        that she had taken his arm.
                    "We have," said he, "but not definitely. She is
                        likely to pop in on us at any moment, and then again  she's likely not to. My daughter is a very uncertain
                        person, Lady Simpson. I never seem to be able to put my finger upon
                        her."
                    "Have you ever tried putting the whole hand upon her?"
                        inquired her ladyship, and Mr. Blithers stared straight ahead, incapable of
                        replying.
                    He waited until they were seated at the table and then remarked: "I
                        am sorry you got splashed, Lady Simpson. You'd think they might
                        keep the approach to a place like this free of mud and water."
                    "Oh, I daresay the gown can be cleaned, Mr. Blithers," she
                        said. "I am quite ready to discard it, in any event, so it really
                        doesn't matter."
                    "My dear," said he to his wife, raising his voice so that
                        diners at nearby tables could not help hearing what he said, "I
                        forgot to tell you that we are expected to dine with the Prince at the
                        Castle." Then he wondered if any one in the room understood
                        English.
                    "When?" she inquired.
                    "Very shortly," said he, and she was puzzled for a moment
                        by the stony glare he gave her.
                    Lord Simpson took this opportunity to mention that he had taken reservations
                        for the return of himself and wife to Vienna on the next day but one.
                    "We shall catch the Orient Express on Friday and be in London by
                        Monday," he said. "Our work here is completed. Everything
                        is in ship-shape. Jenkins will remain, of course, to attend to the minor
                        details, such as going over the securities and "
                    
                    "Don't you like that caviare?" asked Mr. Blithers
                        with some asperity.
                    "It has a peculiar taste," said Lord Simpson.
                    "Best I've ever tasted," said Mr. Blithers,
                        spreading a bun thickly. Pericault's cousins were fingering the
                        champagne glasses. "We've got sherry coming
                        first," said he.
                    "Everything satisfactory, M'sieur Blithers?"
                        inquired the maitre d'hotel softly,
                        ingratiatingly, into his left ear.
                    "Absolutely," said Mr. Blithers with precision.
                        "You needn't hurry things. We've got the whole
                        evening ahead of us."
                    Lady Simpson shivered slightly. The Pericault cousins brightened up. There
                        was still a chance that the "dowagers" would retire early
                        from the scene of festivity.
                    "By the way," said Simpson, "how long do you
                        purpose remaining in Edelweiss, Blithers?"
                    For the first time, the capitalist faltered. He was almost ready to admit
                        that his enterprise had failed in one vital respect. The morning's
                        experience in the Council Chamber had shaken his confidence considerably.
                    "I don't know, Simpson," said he. "It is
                        possible that we may leave soon."
                    "Before the Prince's dinner?" inquired Lady
                        Simpson, again regarding his bald spot through the lorgnon.
                    "Depends on what my daughter has to say when  she gets here," said he almost gruffly. "If
                        she wants to stay for a while, we will remain. I don't mind saying
                        that I have a curious longing for Wall Street. I am at home there and well,
                        by George, I'm like a fish out of water here."
                    His wife looked up quickly, but did not speak.
                    "I am a business man, Lady Simpson, not a philanderer. I'd
                        like to take this town by the neck and shake some real enterprise into it,
                        but what can you do when everybody is willing to sit down and let tradition
                        look after 'em? I've put a lot of money into Grosstock and
                        I'd like to see the country prosper. Still I'm not worried
                        over my investment. It is as good as gold."
                    "Perfectly safe," said Lord Simpson.
                    "Absolutely," said the secondary London lawyer.
                    Pericault's comment was in French and not intended to be brief, but
                        as Mr. Blithers was no longer interested, the privilege of completing his
                        remarks was not accorded him. He did say Mon dieu under
                        his breath, however, in the middle of his employer's next sentence.
                    "As I said before, everything depends on whether my daughter wants
                        to remain. If she says she wants to stay, that settles the point so far as I
                        am concerned. If she says she doesn't want to stay, we'll
                        well, that will settle it also. I say, waiter, can't you hurry the
                        fish along?"
                    "Certainly, sir. I understood M'sieur to say that there was
                        no hurry "
                    
                    "Well, pour the champagne anyway. I think we need it."
                    Two hours later, Mr. Blithers looked at his watch again. The party was quite
                        gay: at least fifty percent disorderly.
                    "That train has been in for an hour," said the host.
                        "I guess Maud didn't come. I left word for the hotel to
                        call me up if she arrived I say, waiter, has there been a telephone message
                        for me?"
                    "No, M'sieur. We have kept a boy near the telephone all
                        evening, M'sieur. No message."
                    "I also told 'em to send up any telegram that might
                        come," he informed his wife, who merely lifted her eye-brows. They
                        had been lowered perceptibly in consequence of the ebullience of
                        Pericault's cousins.
                    The vivacious young women were attracting a great deal of attention to their
                        table. Smart diners in the immediate neighbourhood appeared to be a trifle
                        shocked. Three dignified looking gentlemen, seated near the door, got up and
                        left the room.
                    "We really must be going," said Mrs. Blithers nervously,
                        who had been watching the three men for some time with something akin to
                        dismay in her soul. She had the sickening notion that they were members of
                        the Cabinet lords of the realm.
                    "All right," said Mr. Blithers. "Call the cars up,
                        waiter. Still raining?"
                    "Yes, M'sieur. At this season of the year "
                    "Call the cars. Let's have your bill."
                    Pericault's cousins were reluctant to go. In fact,  they protested shrilly that it was silly to
                        break up such a successful party at such an unseemly hour.
                    "Never mind," whispered Pericault softly, and winked.
                    "I'll leave 'em in your care, Pericault,"
                        said Mr. Blithers grimly. "They are your cousins,
                        you know."
                    "Trust me implicitly, Monsieur," said Pericault, bowing
                        very deeply. Then he said good-night to Mrs. Blithers and Lady Simpson. The
                        secondary London lawyer did the same.
                    Out in the wide, brilliantly lighted foyer, a few late-stayers were waiting
                        for their conveyances to be announced. As the four departing members of the
                        Blithers party grouped themselves near the big doors, impatient to be off, a
                        brass-buttoned boy came up and delivered a telegram to the host.
                    He was on the point of tearing open the envelope when his eyes fell upon two
                        people who had just entered the hall from without, a man and woman clad in
                        raincoats. At the same instant the former saw Mr. Blithers. Clutching his
                        companion's arm he directed her attention to the millionaire.
                    "Now for it, Bedelia," he whispered excitedly.
                    Bedelia gazed calmly at Mr. Blithers and Mr. Blithers gazed blankly at the
                        Prince of Graustark. Then the great financier bowed very deeply and called
                        out:
                    "Good evening, Prince!"
                    He received no response to his polite greeting, for the Prince was staring at
                        Bedelia as if stupefied. The 
                        millionaire's face was very red with mortification as he turned it
                        away.
                    "He he doesn't recognise you," gasped Robin in
                        amazement.
                    "Who?" she asked, her eyes searching the room with an
                        eager, inquiring look.
                    "Your father," he said.
                    She gave him a ravishing, delighted smile.
                    "Oh, it is so wonderful, Robin. I have fooled you completely. That
                        man isn't my father."
                    "That's Mr. Blithers or I am as blind as a bat,"
                        he exclaimed.
                    "Is it, indeed? The one reading the telegram, with his eyes sticking
                        out of his head?"
                    Robin's head was swimming. "Good heaven, Bedelia, what are
                        you "
                    "Ah!" she cried, with a little shriek of joy.
                        "See! There he is!"
                    One of the three distinguished men who had been remarked by Mrs. Blithers now
                        separated himself from his companions and approached the couple. He was a
                        tall, handsome man of fifty. Although his approach was swift and eager,
                        there was in his face the signs of wrath that still struggled against joy.
                    She turned quickly, laid her hand upon the Prince's rigid arm, and
                        said softly:
                    "My father is the Prince of Dawsbergen, dear."
                    ... ...
                    A crumpled telegram dropped from Mr. Blithers' palsied hand to the
                        floor as he turned a white, despairing  face
                        upon his wife. The brass-buttoned boy picked it up and handed it to Mrs.
                        Blithers. It was from Maud.
                    
                        "We were married in Vienna today. After all I think I shall not
                            care to see Graustark. Channie is a dear. I have promised him that you
                            will take him into the business as a partner. We are at the Bristol.
                        "MAUD."
                    
                
                THE END
            
        
    
