
     ----CITATION---- 
        Phillips, David Graham, 1867-1911. The Plum Tree: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2370
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                
                
            
            
            
                THE PLUM TREE
                
            
            
            
                
                    SHE WAS AT THE STATION IN HER PHAETON TO MEET ME
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    THE PLUM TREE
                
                
                    By
                    
                    DAVID GRAHAM PHILLIPS
                    Author of
                     The Cost, Golden Fleece, Etc.
                ILLUSTRATED BY E. M. ASHE
                
                    INDIANAPOLIS
                    THE BOBBS-MERRILL COMPANY PUBLISHERS
                
            
            
            
                Copyright 1905 The Bobbs-Merrill Company
                March
                PRESS OF BRAUNWORTH & CO. BOOKBINDERS AND
                    PRINTERS BROOKLYN, N. Y.
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    I HOW IT ALL BEGAN
                        1
                        
                    II AT THE COURT OF A SOVEREIGN
                        17
                        
                    III SAYLER "DRAWS THE LINE" 33
                        
                    IV THE SCHOOL OF LIFE-AS-IT-IS
                        44
                        
                    V A GOOD MAN AND HIS WOES
                        68
                        
                    VI MISS RAMSAY REVOLTS
                        78
                        
                    VII BYGONES
                        96
                        
                    VIII A CALL FROM "THE PARTY" 107
                        
                    IX TO THE SEATS OF THE MIGHTY
                        123
                        
                    X THE FACE IN THE CROWD
                        136
                        
                    XI BURBANK
                        144
                        
                    XII BURBANK FIRES THE POPULAR HEART
                        163
                        
                    XIII ROEBUCK & CO. PASS UNDER THE YOKE
                        168
                        
                    XIV A "BOOM-FACTORY" 177
                        
                    XV MUTINY
                        193
                        
                    XVI A VICTORY FOR THE PEOPLE
                        199
                        
                    XVII SCARBOROUGH
                        209
                        
                    XVIII A DANGEROUS PAUSE
                        221
                        
                    XIX DAVID SENT OUT AGAINST GOLIATH
                        224
                        
                    XX PILGRIMS AND PATRIOTS
                        234
                        
                    XXI AN INTERLUDE
                        249
                        
                    XXII MOSTLY ABOUT MONEY
                        261
                        
                    XXIII IN WHICH A MOUSE HELPS A LION
                        271
                        
                    XXIV GRANBY INTRUDES AGAIN
                        282
                        
                    XXV AN HOUR OF EMOTION
                        292
                        
                    XXVI "ONLY AN OLD JOKE" 296
                        
                    XXVII A DOMESTIC DISCORD
                        306
                        
                    XXVIII UNDER A CRAYON PORTRAIT
                        314
                        
                    XXIX A LETTER FROM THE DEAD
                        327
                        
                    XXX A PHILOSOPHER RUDELY INTERRUPTED
                        333
                        
                    XXXI HARVEY SAYLER, SWINEHERD
                        345
                        
                    XXXII A GLANCE BEHIND THE MASK OF GRANDEUR
                        365
                        
                    XXXIII A "SPASM OF VIRTUE" 380
                        
                    XXXIV "LET US HELP EACH OTHER" 387
                        
                
            
        
        
            
            
                THE PLUM TREE
                
                THE PLUM TREE
                
                    I
                    HOW IT ALL BEGAN
                    "We can hold out six months longer,at least six months." My
                        mother's tone made the six months stretch encouragingly into six
                        long years.
                    I see her now, vividly as if it were only yesterday. We were at our scant
                        breakfast, I as blue as was ever even twenty-five, she brave and confident.
                        And hers was no mere pretense to reassure me, no cheerless optimism of
                        ignorance, but the through-and-through courage and strength of those who
                        flinch for no bogey that life or death can conjure. Her tone lifted me; I
                        glanced at her, and what shone from her eyes set me on my feet, face to the
                        foe. The table-cloth was darned in many places, but so skilfully that you
                        could  have looked closely without detecting it.
                        Not a lump of sugar, not a slice of bread, went to waste in that house; yet
                        even I had to think twice to realize that we were poor, desperately poor.
                        She did not hide our poverty; she beautified it, she dignified it into
                        Spartan simplicity. I know it is not the glamour over the past that makes me
                        believe there are no women now like those of the race to which she belonged.
                        The world, to-day, yields comfort too easily to the capable; hardship is the
                        only mould for such character, and in those days, in this middle-western
                        country, even the capable were not strangers to hardship.
                    "When I was young," she went on, "and things
                        looked black, as they have a habit of looking to the young and
                        inexperienced,"that put in with a teasing smile for me,"I
                        used to say to myself, 'Well, anyhow, they can't kill me.' And the thought used to cheer me up
                        wonderfully. In fact, it still does."
                    I no longer felt hopeless. I began to gnaw my troubles againdespair is still.
                    "Judge Granby is a dog," said I; "yes, a
                        dog."
                    "Why 'dog'?" objected my mother.
                        "Why  not simply 'mean
                        man'? I've never known a dog that could equal a man who
                        set out to be 'ornery.'"
                    "When I think of all the work I've done for him in these
                        three years"
                    "For yourself," she interrupted. "Work you do for
                        others doesn't amount to much unless it's been first and
                        best for yourself."
                    "But he was benefited by it, too," I urged, "and
                        has taken life easy, and has had more clients and bigger fees than he ever
                        had before. I'd like to give him a jolt. I'd stop nagging
                        him to put my name in a miserable corner of the glass in his door.
                        I'd hang out a big sign of my own over my own office
                        door."
                    My mother burst into a radiant smile. "I've been waiting a
                        year to hear that," she said.
                    Thereupon I had a shock of frightinside, for I'd never have dared to
                        show fear before my mother. There's nothing else that makes you so
                        brave as living with some one before whom you haven't the courage
                        to let your cowardice show its feather. If we didn't keep each
                        other up to the mark, what a spectacle of fright and flight this  world-drama would be! Vanity, the greatest of
                        vices, is also the greatest of virtues, or the source of the greatest
                        virtueswhich comes to the same thing.
                    "When will you do it?" she went on, and then I knew I was
                        in for it, and how well-founded was the suspicion that had been keeping my
                        lips tightshut upon my dream of independence.
                    "I'llI'll think about it," was my answer,
                        in a tone which I hoped she would see was not hesitating, but reflective;
                        "I mustn't go too far,or too fast."
                    "Better go too far and too fast than not go at all,"
                        retorted my wise mother. "Once a tortoise beat a hare,once. It never happened again, yet the whole timid world has been
                        talking about it ever since." And she fell into a study from which
                        she roused herself to say, "You'd better let me bargain for the office and the furniture,and the big
                        sign." She knewbut could not or would not teach mehow to get a
                        dollar's worth for a dollar; would not, I suspect, for she despised
                        parsimony, declaring it to be another virtue which is becoming only in a
                        woman.
                    
                    "Of course,when" I began.
                    "We've got to do something in the next six
                        months," she warned. And now she made the six months seem six
                        minutes.
                    I had at my tongue's end something about the danger of dragging her
                        down into misfortune; but before speaking I looked at her, and, looking,
                        refrained. To say it to her would have been too absurd,to
                        her who had been left a widow with nothing at all, who had educated me for
                        college, and who had helped me through my first year there,helped me with
                        money, I mean. But for what she gave besides, more, immeasurably more,but
                        for her courage in me and round me and under me,I'd never have got
                        my degree or anything else, I fear. To call that courage help would be like
                        saying the mainspring helps the watch to go. I looked at her. "They
                        can't kill me, can they?" said I, with a laugh which
                        sounded so brave that it straightway made me brave.
                    So it was settled.
                    But that was the first step in a fight I can't remember even now
                        without a sinking at the heart. The farmers of Jackson County, of which
                        Pulaski  was the county seat, found in
                        litigation their chief distraction from the stupefying dullness of farm life
                        in those days of pause, after the Indian and nature had been conquered and
                        before the big world's arteries of thought and action had
                        penetrated. The farmers took eagerly to litigation to save themselves from
                        stagnation. Still, a new lawyer, especially if he was young, had an
                        agonizing time of it convincing their slow, stiff, suspicious natures that
                        he could be trusted in such a crisis as "going to law."
                    To make matters worse I fell in love.
                    Onceit was years afterward, though not many years agoBurbank, at the time
                        governor, was with me, and we were going over the main points for his annual
                        message. One of my suggestionsmy orders to all my agents, high and low, have
                        always been sugar-coated as "suggestions"started a new
                        train of thought in him, and he took pen and paper to fix it before it had a
                        chance to escape. As he wrote, my glance wandered along the shelves of the
                        book-cases. It paused on the farthest and lowest shelf. I rose  and went there, and found my old school-books,
                        those I used when I was in Public School Number Three, too near thirty years
                        ago!
                    In the shelf one book stood higher than the otherstall and thin and ragged,
                        its covers torn, its pages scribbled, stained and dog-eared. Looking through
                        that old physical geography was like a first talk with a long-lost friend.
                        It had, indeed, been my old friend. Behind its broad back I had eaten
                        forbidden apples, I had aimed and discharged the blow-gun, I had reveled in
                        blood-and-thunder tales that made the drowsy schoolroom fade before the vast
                        wilderness, the scene of breathless struggles between Indian and settler, or
                        open into the high seas where pirate, or worse-than-pirate Britisher, struck
                        flag to American privateer or man-o'-war.
                    On an impulse shot up from the dustiest depths of memory, I turned the old
                        geography sidewise and examined the edges of the cover. Yes, there was the
                            cache I had made by splitting the pasteboard with my
                        jack-knife. I thrust in my fingernail; out came a slip of paper. I glanced
                        at Burbankhe was still busy. I, somewhat stealthily,  you may imagine, opened the paper andwell, my heart beat much
                        more rapidly as I saw in a school-girl scrawl:
                    I was no longer master of a state; I was a boy in school again. I could see
                        her laboring over this game of "friendship, love, indifference,
                        hate." I could see "Redney" Griggs, who sat
                        between her and me, in the row of desks between and parallel to my row and
                        hers,could see him swoop and snatch the paper from her, look at it, grin
                        maliciously, and toss it over to me. I was in grade A, was sixteen, and was
                        beginning to take myself seriously. She was in grade D, was little more than
                        half my age, but looked older,and how sweet and pretty she was! She had
                        black hair, thick and wavy, with little tresses escaping from plaits and
                        ribbons to float about her forehead, ears, and neck. Her skin was darker
                        then, I think, than it is now, but it had the same  smoothness and glow,certainly, it could not have had more.
                    I think the dart must have struck that day,why else did I keep the bit of
                        paper? But it did not trouble me until the first winter of my launching
                        forth as "Harvey Sayler, Attorney and Counselor at Law."
                        She was the daughter of the Episcopal preacher; and, as every one thought
                        well of the prospects of my mother's son, our courtship was
                        undisturbed. Then, in the spring, when fortune was at its coldest and love
                        at its most feverish, her father accepted a call to a church in Boston,
                        eight hundred miles away.
                    To go to see her was impossible; how could the money be spared,fifty dollars,
                        at the least? Oncewhen they had been gone about four monthsmy mother
                        insisted that I must. But I refused, and I do not know whether it is to my
                        credit or not, for my refusal gave her only pain, whereas the sacrifices she
                        would have had to make, had I gone, would have given her only pleasure. I
                        had no fear that Betty would change in our separation. There are some people
                        you  hope are stanch, and some people you think
                        will be stanch, if, and then there are those, many women and a few men, whom
                        it is impossible to think of as false or even faltering. I did not fully
                        appreciate that quality then, for my memory was not then dotted with the
                        graves of false friendships and littered with the rubbish of broken
                        promises; but I did appreciate it enough to build securely upon it.
                    Build? No, that is not the word. There may be those who are stimulated to
                        achievement by being in love, though I doubt it. At any rate, I was not one
                        of them. My love for her absorbed my thoughts, and paralyzed my courage. Of
                        the qualities that have contributed to what success I may have had, I put in
                        the first rank a disposition to see the gloomiest side of the future. But it
                        has not helped to make my life happier, invaluable though it has been in
                        preventing misadventure from catching me napping.
                    So another year passed. Then came hard times,real hard
                        times. I had some clientsenough to insure mother and myself a living, with
                        the interest on mortgage and note kept  down.
                        But my clients were poor, and poor pay, and slow pay. Nobody was doing well
                        but the note-shavers. I How mother fought to keep the front brave and
                        bright!not her front, for that was bright by nature, like the sky beyond the
                        clouds; but our front, my front,the front of our affairs. No one must see
                        that we were pinching,so I must be the most obviously prosperous young
                        lawyer in Pulaski. What that struggle cost her I did not then realize; no,
                        could not realize until I looked at her face for the last time, looked and
                        turned away and thought on the meaning of the lines and the hollows over
                        which Death had spread his proclamation of eternal peace. I have heard it
                        said of those markings in human faces, "How ugly!" But it
                        seems to me that, to any one with eyes and imagination, line and wrinkle and
                        hollow always have the somber grandeur of tragedy. I remember my mother when
                        her face was smooth and had the shallow beauty that the shallow dote on. But
                        her face whereon was written the story of fearlessness, sacrifice, and
                        love,that is the face beautiful of my mother for me.
                    
                    In the midst of those times of trial, when she had ceased to smile,for she
                        had none of that hypocritical cheerfulness which depresses and is a mere
                        vanity to make silly onlookers cry "Brave!" when there is
                        no true bravery,just when we were at our lowest ebb, came an offer from Bill
                        Dominick to put me into politics.
                    I had been interested in politics ever since I was seven years old. I recall
                        distinctly the beginning:
                    On a November afternoon,it must have been November, though I remember that it
                        was summer-warm, with all the windows open and many men in the streets in
                        shirt-sleeves,at any rate, I was on my way home from school. As I neared the
                        court-house I saw a crowd in the yard and was reminded that it was election
                        day, and that my father was running for relection to the state senate; so, I
                        bolted for his law office in the second story of the Masonic Temple, across
                        the street from the court-house.
                    He was at the window and was looking at the polling place so intently that he
                        took no notice of me as I stood beside him. I know now why he  was absorbed and why his face was stern and
                        sad. I can shut my eyes and see that court-house yard, the long line of men
                        going up to vote, single file, each man calling out his name as he handed in
                        his ballot, and Tom Weedonwho shot an escaping prisoner when he was deputy
                        sheriffrepeating the name in a loud voice. Each oncoming voter in that
                        curiously regular and compact file was holding out his right arm stiff so
                        that the hand was about a foot clear of the thigh; and in every one of those
                        thus conspicuous hands was a conspicuous bit of white papera ballot. As each
                        man reached the polling window and gave in his name, he swung that hand
                        round with a stiff-armed, circular motion that kept it clear of the body and
                        in full view until the bit of paper disappeared in the slit in the ballot
                        box.
                    I wished to ask my father what this strange spectacle meant; but, as I
                        glanced up at him to begin my question, I knew I must not, for I felt that I
                        was seeing something which shocked him so profoundly that he would take me
                        away if I reminded him of my presence. I know now that  I was witnessing the crude beginnings of the money-machine in
                        politics,the beginnings of the downfall of parties,the beginnings of the
                        overthrow of the people as the political power. Those stiff-armed men were
                        the "floating voters" of that ward of Pulaski. They had
                        been bought up by a rich candidate of the opposition party, which was less
                        scrupulous than our party, then in the flush of devotion to
                        "principles" and led by such old-fashioned men as my
                        father with oldfashioned notions of honor and honesty. Those
                        "floaters" had to keep the ballot in full view from the
                        time they got it of the agent of their purchaser until they had deposited it
                        beyond the possibility of substitutionhe must see them "deliver the
                        goods."
                    My father was defeated. He saw that, in politics, the day of the public
                        servant of public interests was over, and that the night of the private
                        servant of private interests had begun. He resigned the leadership into the
                        dexterous hands of a politician. Soon afterward he died, muttering:
                        "Prosperity has ruined my country!"
                    From that election day my interest in politics 
                        grew, and but for my mother's bitter prejudice I should have been
                        an active politician, perhaps before I was out of college.
                    Pulaski, indeed all that section of my state, was strongly of my party.
                        Therefore Dominick, its local boss, was absolute. At the last county
                        election, four years before the time of which I am writing, there had been a
                        spasmodic attempt to oust him. He had grown so insolent, and had put his
                        prices for political and political-commercial "favors" to
                        our leading citizens so high, that the "best element" in
                        our party reluctantly broke from its allegiance. To save himself he had been
                        forced to order flagrant cheating on the tally sheets; his ally and fellow
                        conspirator, M'Coskrey, the opposition boss, was caught and was
                        indicted by the grand jury. The Reformers made such a stir that Ben Cass,
                        the county prosecutor, though a Dominick man, disobeyed his master and tried
                        and convicted M'Coskrey. Of course, following the custom in cases
                        of yielding to pressure from public sentiment, he made the trial-errors
                        necessary to insure reversal in the higher court; and he finally gave
                        Dominick's  judge the opportunity to
                        quash the indictment. But the boss was relentless,Cass had been disobedient,
                        and had put upon "my friend M'Coskrey" the
                        disgrace of making a sorry figure in court. "Ben can look to his
                        swell reform friends for a renomination," said he;
                        "he'll not get it from me."
                    Thus it came to pass that Dominick's lieutenant, Buck Fessenden,
                        appeared in my office one afternoon in July, and, after a brief parley,
                        asked me how I'd like to be prosecuting attorney of Jackson County.
                        Four thousand a year for four years, and a relection if I should give
                        satisfaction; and afterward, the bench or a seat in Congress! I could pay
                        off everything; I could marry!
                    It was my first distinct vision of the plum tree. To how many thousands of
                        our brightest, most promising young Americans it is shown each year in just
                        such circumstances!
                
                
                
                    II
                    AT THE COURT OF A SOVEREIGN
                    That evening after supper I went to see Dominick.
                    In the lower end of Pulaski there was a large beer-garden, known as
                        Dominick's headquarters. He received half the profits in return for
                        making it his loafing-place, the seat of the source of all political honor,
                        preferment and privilege in the third, sixth and seventh congressional
                        districts. I found him enthroned at the end of a long table in the farthest
                        corner of the garden. On one side of him sat James Spencer, judge of the
                        circuit court,"Dominick's judge"; on the other
                        side Henry De Forest, principal owner of the Pulaski Gas and Street Railway
                        Company. There were several minor celebrities in politics, the law, and
                        business down either side of the table, then Fessenden, talking with Cowley,
                        our lieutenant governor. As soon as I appeared Fessenden nodded  to me, rose, and said to the others generally:
                        "Come on, boys, let's adjourn to the next table. Mr.
                        Dominick wants to talk to this young fellow."
                    I knew something of politics, but I was not prepared to see that
                        distinguished company rise and, with not a shadow of resentment on any
                        man's face, with only a respectful, envious glance at me, who was
                        to deprive them of sunshine for a few minutes, remove themselves and their
                        glasses to another table. When I knew Dominick better, and other bosses in
                        this republic of ours, I knew that the boss is never above the weaknesses of
                        the monarch class for a rigid and servile court etiquette. My own lack of
                        this weakness has been a mistake which might have been serious had my
                        political power been based upon men. It is a blunder to treat men without
                        self-respect as if they were your equals. They expect to cringe; if they are
                        not compelled to do so, they are very likely to forget their place. At the
                        court of a boss are seen only those who have lost self-respect and those who
                        never had it. The first  are the lower though
                        they rank themselves, and are ranked, above the "just naturally
                        low."
                    ButDominick was alone, his eternal glass of sarsaparilla before him. He used
                        the left corner of his mouth both for his cigar and for speech. To bid me
                        draw near and seat myself, he had to shift his cigar. When the few words
                        necessary were half-spoken, half-grunted, he rolled his cigar back to the
                        corner which it rerely left. He nodded condescendingly, and, as I took the
                        indicated chair at his right, gave me a hand that was fat and firm, not
                        unlike the flabby yet tenacious sucker of a moist sea-creature.
                    He was a huge, tall man, enormously muscular, with a high head like a block,
                        straight in front, behind and on either side; keen, shifty, pig eyes,
                        pompous cheeks, a raw, wide mouth; slovenly dress, with a big diamond as a
                        collar button and another on his puffy little finger. He was about forty
                        years old, had graduated from blacksmith too lazy to work into
                        prize-fighter, thence into saloon-keeper. It was as a saloon-keeper that he
                        founded and built his power, made himself the 
                        local middleman between our two great political factors, those who buy and
                        break laws and those who aid and abet the lawlessness by selling themselves
                        as voters or as office-holders.
                    Dominick had fixed his eyes upon his sarsaparilla. He frowned savagely into
                        its pale brown foam when he realized that I purposed to force him to speak
                        first. His voice was ominously surly as he shifted his cigar to say:
                        "Well, young fellow, what can I do for you?"
                    "Mr. Fessenden told me you wanted to see me," said I.
                    "He didn't say nothing of the sort," growled
                        Dominick. "I've knowed Buck seventeen years, and he
                        ain't no liar."
                    I flushed and glanced at the distinguished company silently waiting to return
                        to the royal presence. Surely, if these eminent fellow citizens of mine
                        endured this insulting monarch, I could,I, the youthful, the obscure, the
                        despondent. Said I: "Perhaps I did not express myself quite
                        accurately. Fessenden told me you were considering making me your candidate
                        for county prosecutor, and suggested that I call and see you."
                    
                    
                        HE SHIFTED HIS CIGAR TO SAY: "WELL, YOUNG FELLOW,
                            WHAT CAN I DO FOR YOU?" p. 20
                        
                    
                    
                    Dominick gave a gleam and a grunt like a hog that has been flattered with a
                        rough scratching of its hide. But he answered: "I don't
                        give no nominations. That's the province of the party, young
                        man."
                    "But you are the party," was my reply. At
                        the time I was not conscious that I had thus easily dropped down among the
                        hide-scratchers. I assured myself that I was simply stating the truth, and
                        ignored the fact that telling the truth can be the most degrading
                        sycophancy, and the subtlest and for that reason the most shameless, lying.
                    "Well, I guess I've got a little something to say about the
                        party," he conceded. "Us young fellows that are active in
                        politics like to see young fellows pushed to the front. A good many of the
                        boys ain't stuck on Ben Cass,he's too stuck on himself.
                        He's getting out of touch with the common people, and is
                        boot-licking in with the swells up town. So, when I heard you wanted the
                        nomination for prosecutor, I told Buck to trot you round and let us look you
                        over. Good party man?"
                    
                    "Yesand my father and grandfather before me."
                    "No reform germs in your system?"
                    I laughedI was really amused, such a relief was it to see a gleam of
                        pleasantry in that menacing mass. "I'm no better than my
                        party," said I, "and I don't desert it just
                        because it doesn't happen to do everything according to my
                        notions."
                    "That's right," approved Dominick, falling
                        naturally into the rle of political schoolmaster. "There
                        ain't no government without responsibility, and there
                        ain't no responsibility without organization, and there
                        ain't no organization without men willing to sink their
                        differences." He paused.
                    I looked my admiration,I was most grateful to him for this chance to think
                        him an intellect. Who likes to admit that he bows before a mere brute? The
                        compulsory courtiers of a despot may possibly and in part tell the truth
                        about him, after they are safe; but was there ever a voluntary courtier
                        whose opinion of his monarch could be believed? The more distinguished the
                        courtier  the greater his necessity to
                        exaggerate his royal masteror mistressto others and to himself.
                    Dominick forged on: "Somebody's got to lead, and the
                        leader's got to be obeyed. Otherwise what becomes of the party?
                        Why, it goes to hell, and we've got anarchy."
                    This was terse, pointed, plausiblethe stereotyped "machine"
                        argument. I nodded emphatically.
                    "Ben Cass," he proceeded, "believes in discipline
                        and organization and leadership only when they're to elect him to a
                        fat job. He wants to use the party, but when the party wants service in
                        return, up goes Mr. Cass' snout and tail, and off he lopes.
                        He's what I call a cast iron" I shall omit the vigorous
                        phrase wherein he summarized Cass. His vocabulary was not large; he
                        therefore frequently resorted to the garbage barrel and the muck heap for
                        missiles.
                    I showed in my face my scorn for the Cass sort of selfishness and
                        insubordination. "The leader has all the strings in his
                        hand," said I. "He's the only one who can judge
                        what must be done. He must be trusted and obeyed."
                    
                    "I see you've got the right stuff in you, young
                        man," said Dominick heartily. "So you want the
                        job?"
                    I hesitated,I was thinking of him, of his bestial tyranny, and of my
                        self-respect, unsullied, but also untempted, theretofore.
                    He scowled. "Do you, or don't you?"
                    "Yes," said I,I was thinking of the debts and mother and
                        Betty. "Yes, indeed; I'd esteem it a great honor, and
                        I'd be grateful to you." If I had thrust myself over-head
                        into a sewer I should have felt less vile than I did as my fears and
                        longings uttered those degrading words.
                    He grunted. "Well, we'll see. Tell the boys at the other
                        table to come back." He nodded a dismissal and gave me that moist,
                        strong grip again.
                    As I went toward the other table each man there had a hand round his glass in
                        readiness for the message of recall. I mentally called the rollwealth,
                        respectability, honor, all on their knees before Dominick, each with his eye
                        upon the branch of the plum tree that bore the kind of fruit he fancied. And
                        I wondered how they felt  inside,for I was then
                        ignorant of the great foundation truth of paractical ethics, that a
                        man's conscience is not the producer but the product of his career.
                    Fessenden accompanied me to the door. "The old man's in a
                        hell of a humor to-night," said he. "His wife's
                        caught on to a little game he's been up to, and she's the
                        only human being he's afraid of. She came in here, one night, and
                        led him out by the ear. What a fool a man is to marry when there's
                        a chance of running into a mess like that! Butyou made a hit with him.
                        Besides, he needs you. Your family" Buck checked himself, feeling
                        that drink was making him voluble.
                    "He's a strong man, isn't he?" said I;
                        "a born leader."
                    "Middle-weight champion in his day," replied Fessenden.
                        "He can still knock out anybody in the organization in one
                        round."
                    "Good night and thank you," said I. So I went my way, not
                        elated but utterly depressed,more depressed than when I won the first case
                        in which I knew my client's opponent was in the right and had lost
                        only because I outgeneraled  his stupid lawyer.
                        I was, like most of the sons and daughters of the vigorous families of the
                        earnest, deeply religious early-West, an idealist by inheritance and by
                        training; but I suppose any young man, however practical, must feel a shock
                        when he begins those compromises between theoretical and practical right
                        which are part of the daily routine of active life, and without which active
                        life is impossible.
                    I had said nothing to my mother, because I did not wish to raise her hopesor
                        her objections. I now decided to be silent until the matter should be
                        settled. The next day but one Fessenden came, bad news in his face.
                        "The old man liked you," he began, "but"
                    I had not then learned to control my expression. I could not help showing
                        what ruins of lofty castles that ominous "but" dropped
                        upon my head.
                    "You'll soon be used to getting it in the neck if you stay
                        in politics," said Fessenden. "There's not much
                        else. But you ain't so bad off as you think. The old man has
                        decided that he can afford to run one of his reliable hacks for the place.
                             He's suddenly found a way of
                        sinking his hooks in the head devil of the Reformers and Ben Cass'
                        chief backer, Singer,you know him,the lawyer."
                    Singer was one of the leaders of the state bar and superintendent of our
                        Sunday-school.
                    "Dominick has made De Forest give Singer the law business of the Gas
                        and Street Railway Company, so Singer is coming over to us." Buck
                        grinned. "He has found that 'local interests must be
                        subordinated to the broader interests of the party in state and
                        nation.'"
                    I had been reading in our party's morning paper what a wise and
                        patriotic move Singer had made in advising the putting off of a Reform
                        campaign,and I had believed in the sincerity of his motive!
                    Fessenden echoed my sneer, and went on: "He's a rotten
                        hypocrite; but then, we can always pull the bung out of these Reform
                        movements that way."
                    "You said it isn't as bad for me as it seems," I
                        interrupted.
                    "Oh, yes. You're to be on the ticket. The old  man's going to send you to the
                        legislature,lower house, of course."
                    I did not cheer up. An assemblyman got only a thousand a year.
                    "The pay ain't much," confessed Buck,
                        "but there ain't nothing to do except vote according to
                        order. Then there's a great deal to be picked up on the side,the
                        old man understands that others have got to live besides him. Salaries in
                        politics don't cut no figure nowadays, anyhow. It's the
                        chance the place gives for pick-ups."
                    At first I flatly refused, but Buck pointed out that I was foolish to throw
                        away the benefits sure to come through the "old
                        man's" liking for me. "He'll take care
                        of you," he assured me. "He's got you booked for
                        a quick rise." My poverty was so pressing that I had not the
                        courage to refuse,the year and a half of ferocious struggle and the longing
                        to marry Betty Crosby had combined to break my spirit. I believe it is
                        Johnson who says the worst feature of genteel poverty is its power to make
                        one ridiculous. I don't think so. No; its worst feature is its
                        power to make one afraid.
                    
                    That night I told my mother of my impending "honors." We
                        were in the dark on our little front porch. She was silent, and presently I
                        thought I heard her suppressing a sigh. "You don't like
                        it, mother?" said I.
                    "No, Harvey, butI see no light ahead in any other direction, and I
                        guess one should always steer toward what light there is." She
                        stood behind my chair, put her hands on my shoulders, and rested her chin
                        lightly on the top of my head. "Besides, I can trust you. Whatever
                        direction you take, you're sure to win in the end."
                    I was glad it was dark. An hour after I went to bed I heard some one stirring
                        in the house,it seemed to me there was a voice, too. I rose and went into
                        the hall, and so, softly to my mother's room. Her door was ajar.
                        She was near the window, kneeling there in the moonlight, prayingfor me.
                    I had not been long in the legislature before I saw that my position was even
                        more contemptible than I anticipated. So contemptible, indeed,  was it that, had I not been away from home and
                        among those as basely situated as myself, it would have been intolerable,a
                        convict infinitely prefers the penitentiary to the chain gaing. Then too,
                        there was consolation in the fact that the people, my fellow citizens, in
                        their stupidity and ignorance about political conditions, did not realize
                        what public office had come to mean. At home they believed what the
                        machine-controlled newspapers said of methat I was a "manly,
                        independent young man," that I was "making a vigorous
                        stand for what was honest in public affairs," that I was the
                        "honorable and distinguished son of an honorable and distinguished
                        father." How often I read those and similar eulogies of young men
                        just starting in public life! And is it not really amazing that the people
                        believe, that they never say to themselves: "But, if he were
                        actually what he so loudly professes to be, how could he have got public
                        office from a boss and a machine?"
                    I soon gave up trying to fool myself into imagining I was the servant of the
                        people by introducing or speaking for petty little popular measures.  I saw clearly that graft was the backbone, the
                        whole skeleton of legislative business, and that its fleshly cover of
                        pretended public service could be seen only by the blind. I saw, also, that
                        no one in the machine of either party had any real power. The state boss of
                        our party, United States Senator Dunkirk, was a creature and servant of
                        corporations. Silliman, the state boss of the opposition party, was the
                        same, but got less for his services because his party was hopelessly in the
                        minority and its machine could be useful only as a sort of supplement and
                        scapegoat.
                    With the men at the top, Dunkirk and Silliman, mere lackeys, I saw my own
                        future plainly enough. I saw myself crawling on year after year,crawling one
                        of two roads. Either I should become a political scullion, a wretched party
                        hack, despising myself and despised by those who used me, or I should
                        develop into a lackey's lackey or a plain lackey, lieutenant of a
                        boss or a boss, so-calleda derisive name, really, when the only kind of
                        boss-ship open was head political procurer to one or more rich corporations
                        or groups of corporations. I felt I should 
                        probably become a scullion, as I thought I had no taste or instinct for
                        business, and as I was developing some talent for
                        "mixing," and for dispensing "hot air"
                        from the stump.
                    I turned these things over and over in my mind with an energy that sprang
                        from shame, from the knowledge of what my mother would think if she knew the
                        truth about her son, and from a realization that I was no nearer marrying
                        Betty Crosby than before. At last I wrought myself into a sullen fury
                        beneath a calm surface. The lessons in self-restraint and self-hiding I
                        learned in that first of my two years as assemblyman have been invaluable.
                    When I entered upon my second and last winter, I was outwardly as serene asas
                        a volcano on the verge of eruption.
                
                
                
                    III
                    SAYLER "DRAWS THE LINE"
                    In February the railways traversing our state sent to the capitol a bill that
                        had been drawn by our ablest lawyers and reviewed by the craftiest of the
                        great corporation lawyers of New York City. Its purpose, most shrewdly and
                        slyly concealed, was to exempt the railways from practically all taxation.
                        It was so subtly worded that this would be disclosed only when the companies
                        should be brought to court for refusing to pay their usual share of the
                        taxes. Such measures are usually "straddled" through a
                        legislature,that is, neither party takes the responsibility, but the boss of
                        each machine assigns to vote for them all the men whose seats are secure
                        beyond any ordinary assault of public indignation. In this case, of the
                        ninety-one members of the lower house, thirty-two were assigned by Dunkirk
                        and seventeen by Silliman to make up a majority with three to spare.
                    
                    My boss, Dominick, got wind that Dunkirk and Silliman were cutting an extra
                        melon of uncommon size. He descended upon the capitol and served notice on
                        Dunkirk that the eleven Dominick men assigned to vote for the bill would
                        vote against it unless he got seven thousand dollars apiece for
                        them,seventy-seven thousand dollars. Dunkirk needed every one of
                        Dominick's men to make up his portion of the majority; he yielded
                        after trying in vain to reduce the price. All Dominick would say to him on
                        that point, so I heard afterward, was:
                    "Every day you put me off, I go up a thousand dollars a
                        head."
                    We who were to be voted so profitably for Dunkirk, Silliman, Dominick, and
                        the railroads, learned what was going on,Silliman went on a
                        "tear" and talked too much. Nine of us, not including myself, got together and sent Cassidy, member from the
                        second Jackson County district, to Dominick to plead for a share. I happened
                        to be with him in the Capital City Hotel bar when Cassidy came up, and,
                        hemming and hawing, explained how he and his fellow insurgents felt.
                    
                    Dominick's veins seemed cords straining to bind down a demon
                        struggling to escape. "It's back to the bench you go, Pat
                        Cassidy,back to the bench where I found you," he snarled, with a
                        volley of profanity and sewage. "I don't know nothing
                        about this here bill except that it's for the good of the party. Go
                        back to that gang of damned wharf rats, and tell 'em, if I hear
                        another squeak, I'll put 'em where I got
                        'em."
                    Cassidy shrank away with a furtive glance of envy and hate at me, whom
                        Dominick treated with peculiar consideration,I think it was because I was
                        the only man of education and of any pretensions to
                        "family" in official position in his machine. He used to
                        like to class himself and me together as "us gentlemen,"
                        in contrast to "them muckers," meaning my colleagues.
                    Next day, just before the voting began, Dominick seated himself at the front
                        of the governor's gallery,the only person in it. I see him now as
                        he looked that day,black and heavy-jawed and scowling, leaning forward with
                        both forearms on the railing, and his big, flat chin resting on  his upturned, stubby thumbs. He was there to
                        see that each of us, his creatures, dependent absolutely upon him for our
                        political lives, should vote as he had sold us in block. There was no chance
                        to shirk or even to squirem. As the rollcall proceeded, one after another,
                        seven of us, obeyed that will frowning from the gallery,jumped through the
                        hoop of fire under the quivering lash. I was eighth on the roll.
                    "Sayler!" How my name echoed through that horrible silence!
                    I could not answer. Gradually every face turned toward me,I could see them,
                        could feel them, and, to make bad enough worse, I yielded to an imperious
                        fascination, the fascination of that incarnation of brute-power,power of
                        muscle and power of will. I turned my eyes upon the amazed, furious eyes of
                        my master. It seemed to me that his lips must give passage to the oaths and
                        filth swelling beneath his chest, and seething behind his eyes.
                    "Sayler!" repeated the clerk in a voice that exploded
                        within me.
                    "No!" I shouted,not in answer to the clerk,  but in denial of that insolent master-to-dog
                        command from the beast in the gallery.
                    The look in his eyes changed to relief and contemptuous approval. There was a
                        murmur of derision from my fellow members. Then I remembered that a negative
                        was, at that stage of the bill, a vote for it,I had done just the reverse of
                        what I intended. The roll-call went on, and I sat debating with myself.
                        Prudence, inclination, the natural timidity of youth, the utter futility of
                        opposition, fear, above all else, fear,these joined in bidding me let my
                        vote stand as cast. On the other side stood my notion of self-respect. I
                        felt I must then and there and for ever decide whether I was a thing or a
                        man. Yet, again and again I had voted for measures just as corrupt,had voted
                        for them with no protest beyond a cynical shrug and a wry look. Every man,
                        even the laxest, if he is to continue to "count as one,"
                        must have a point where he draws the line beyond which he will not go. The
                        liar must have things he will not lie about, the thief things he will not
                        steal, the compromiser things he will not compromise, the practical man in
                        the pulpit, in  politics, in business, in the
                        professor's chair, or editorial tribune, things he will not
                        sacrifice, whatever the cost. That is "practical honor." I
                        had reached my line of practical honor, my line between possible compromise
                        and certain demoralization. And I realized it.
                    When the roll-call ended I rose, and, in a voice that I knew was firm and
                        clear, said: "Mr. Speaker, I voted in the negative by mistake. I
                        wish my vote recorded in the affirmative. I am against the bill."
                    Amid a fearful silence I took my seat. With a suddenness that made me leap, a
                        wild and crazy assemblyman, noted as the crank of that session, emitted a
                        fantastic yell of enthusiastic approval. Again there was that silence; then
                        the tension of the assembly, floor and crowded galleries, burst in a storm
                        of hysterical laughter.
                    I wish I could boast how brave I felt as I reversed my vote, how indifferent
                        to that tempest of mockery, and how strong as I went forth to meet my master
                        and hear my death-warrant. But I can't, in honesty,I'm
                        only a human being, not a hero, and these are my confessions, not my professions.  So I must relate that, though the voice that
                        requested the change of vote was calm and courageous, the man behind it was
                        agitated and sick with dread. There may be those who have the absolute
                        courage some men boast,if not directly, then by implication in despising him
                        who shows that he has it not. For myself, I must say that I never made a
                        venture,and my life has been a succession of ventures, often with my whole
                        stake upon the table,I never made a venture that I did not have a sickening
                        sensation at the heart. My courage, if it can be called by so sounding a
                        name, has been in daring to make the throw when every atom of me was
                        shrieking, "You'll lose! You'll be
                        ruined!"
                    I did not see Dominick until after supper. I had nerved myself for a
                        scene,indeed, I had been hoping he would insult me. When one lacks the
                        courage boldly to advance along the perilous course his intelligence
                        counsels, he is lucky if he can and will goad some one into kicking him
                        along it past the point where retreat is possible. Such methods of advance
                        are not dignified, but then, is life dignified? To my surprise  and alarm, Dominick refused to kick me into
                        manhood. He had been paid, and the seventy-seven thousand dollars, in bills
                        of large denomination, were warming his heart from the inner pocket of his
                        waistcoat. So he came up to me, scowling, but friendly.
                    "Why didn't you tell me you wanted to be let off,
                        Harvey?" he said reproachfully. "I'd
                        'a' done it. Now, damn you, you've put me in a
                        place where I've got to give you the whip."
                    To flush at this expression from Dominick was a hypocritical refinement of
                        sensitiveness. To draw myself up haughtily, to turn on my heel and walk
                        away,that was the silliness of a boy. Still, I am glad I did both those
                        absured things. When I told my mother how I had ruined myself in politics
                        she began to cry,and tears were not her habit. Then she got my
                        father's picture and kissed it and talked to it about me, just as
                        if he were there with us; and for a time I felt that I was of heroic
                        stature.
                    But, as the days passed, with no laurels in the form of cases and fees, and
                        as clients left me through fear of Dominick's power, I shriveled
                             back to human size, and descended from my
                        pedestal. From the ground-level I began again to look about the
                        matter-of-fact world.
                    I saw I was making only a first small payment on the heavy price for the
                        right to say no, for the right to be free to break with any man or any
                        enterprise that menanced my self-ownership. That right I felt I must keep,
                        whatever its cost. Some men can, or think they can, lend their
                        self-ownership and take it back at convenience; I knew I was not of themand
                        let none of them judge me. Especially let none judge me who only deludes
                        himself that he owns himself, who has sold himself all his life long for
                        salaries and positions or for wealth, or for the empty reputation of power
                        he wields only on another's sufferance.
                    A glance about me was enough to disclose the chief reason why so many men had
                        surrendered the inner citadel of self-respect. In the crucial hour, when
                        they had had to choose between subservience and a hard battle with
                        adversity, forth from their hearts had issued a traitor weakness, the
                        feeling of responsibility to wife and children,  and this traitor had easily delivered them captive to some master or
                        masters. More, or less, than human, it seemed to me, was the courage that
                        could make successful resistance to this traitor, and could strike down and
                        drag down wife and children. "I must give up Elizabeth," I
                        said to myself, "for her own sake as well as for mine. Marry her I
                        must not until I am established securely in freedom. And when will that
                        be?" In my mood of darkness and despair, the answer to that
                        question was a relentless, "Never, especially if you are weighted
                        with the sense of obligation to her, of her wasting her youth in waiting for
                        you."
                    I wrote her all that was in my mind. "You must forget me,"
                        I said, "and I shall forget youfor I see that you are not for
                        me."
                    The answer came by telegraph"Please don't ever again hurt
                        me in that way." And of the letter which came two days later I
                        remember clearly this sentence: "If you will not let me go on with
                        you, I will make the journey alone."
                    This shook me, but I knew only too well how the bright and beautiful legions
                        of the romantic and the ideal could be put to flight, could be hurled
                        headlong into the abyss of oblivion by the phalanxes of fact.
                    
                    "I see what I must do," was my answer to her letter.
                        "And I shall do it. Be merciful to me, Elizabeth. Do not tempt me
                        to a worse cowardice than giving you up. I shall not write again."
                    And I did not. Every one of her letters was answeredsometimes, I remember, I
                        wrote to her the whole night through, shading my window so that mother could
                        not from her window see the reflection of my lamp's light on the
                        ground and become anxious. But I destroyed those long and often agonized
                        answers. And I can not say whether my heart was the heavier in the months
                        when I was getting her letters, to which I dared not reply, or in those
                        succeeding months when her small, clear handwriting first ceased to greet me
                        from the mail.
                
                
                
                    IV
                    THE SCHOOL OF LIFE-AS-IT-IS
                    A day or so after I lost the only case of consequence I had had in more than
                        a year, Buck Fessenden came into my office, and, after dosing me liberally
                        with those friendly protestations and assurances which please even when they
                        do not convince, said: "I know you won't give me away,
                        Sayler, and I can't stand it any longer to watch you going on this
                        way. Don't you see the old man's after you hammer and
                        tongs? He'll never let up. You won't get no clients, and,
                        if you do, you won't win no cases."
                    Those last five words, spoken in Buck's most significant manner,
                        revealed what my modestyor, if you prefer, my stupidityhad hidden from me. I
                        had known all along that Dominick was keeping away and driving away clients;
                        but I had not suspected his creatures on the bench. To this day, after all
                        these years of use, only with the greatest reluctance and with a moral  uneasiness which would doubtless amuse most
                        political managers, do I send "suggestions" or
                        "intimations" to my men in judicial officeand I always do
                        it, and always have done it, indirectly. And I feel relieved and grateful
                        when my judges, eager to "serve the party," anticipate me
                        by sending me a reassuring hint.
                    I did not let Buck see into my mind. "Nonsense!" I
                        pooh-poohed; "I've no cause to complain of lack of
                        business; but even if I had, I'd not blame Dominick or any one else
                        but myself." Then I gave him a straight but good-humored look.
                        "Drop it, Buck," said I. "What did the old man
                        send you to me for? What does he want?"
                    He was too crafty to defend an indefensible position. "I'll
                        admit he did send me," said he with a grin, "but I came on
                        my own account, too. Do you want to make it up with him? You can get back
                        under the plum tree if you'll say the word."
                    I could see my mother, as I had seen her two hours before at our poor midday
                        meal,an old, old woman, so broken, so worn! And all through  the misery this Dominick had brought upon us.
                        Before I could control myself to speak, Buck burst out, a look of alarm in
                        his face, "Don't say it, Mr. Sayler,I know,I know. I told
                        him it'd be no use. Honest, he ain't as bad as you
                        think,he don't know no better, and it's because he liked
                        and still likes you that he wants you back." He leaned across the
                        desk toward me, in his earnestness,and I could not doubt his sincerity.
                        "Sayler," he went on, "take my advice, get out of
                        the state. You ain't the sort that gives in, and no more is he.
                        You've got more nerve than any other man I know, bar none, but
                        don't waste it on a fool fight. You know enough about politics to
                        know what you're up against."
                    "Thank you," said I, "but I'll stay
                        on."
                    He gave over trying to persuade me. "I hope," said he,
                        "you've got a card up your sleeve that the old man
                        don't know about."
                    I made some vague reply, and he soon went away. I felt that I had confirmed
                        his belief in my fearlessness. Yet, if he could have looked into my mind,
                        how he would have laughed at his credulity! Probably he would have pitied
                             me, too, for it is one of the curious
                        facts of human nature that men are amazed and even disgusted whenever they
                        seein othersthe weaknesses that are universal. I doubt not, many who read
                        these memoirs will be quite honestly Pharisaical, thanking Heaven that they
                        are not touched with any of my infirmities.
                    It may have been coincidence, though I think not, that, a few days after
                        Fessenden's call, a Reform movement against Dominick appeared upon
                        the surface of Jackson County politics. I thought, at the time, that it was
                        the first streak of the dawn I had been watching for,the awakening of the
                        sluggish moral sentiment of the rank and file of the voters. I know now that
                        it was merely the result of a quarrel among the corporations that employed
                        Dominick. He had been giving the largest of them, Roebuck's
                        Universal Gas and Electric Company, called the Power Trust, more than its
                        proportional share of the privileges and spoils. The others had protested in
                        vain, and as a last resort had ordered their lawyers to organize a movement
                        to "purify" Jackson County, Dominick's
                        stronghold.
                    
                    I did not then know it, but I got the nomination for country prosecutor
                        chiefly because none of the other lawyers, not even those secretly directing
                        the Reform campaign, was brave enough publicly to provoke the Power Trust. I
                        made a house to house, farm to farm, man to man, canvass. We had the secret
                        ballot, and I was elected. The people rarely fail to respond to that kind of
                        appeal if they are convinced that response can not possibly hurt, and may
                        help, their pockets. And, by the way, those occasional responses,
                        significant neither of morality nor of intelligence, lead political
                        theorists far astray. As if honor or honesty could win other than sporadic
                        and more or less hypocritical homagepractical homage, I meanamong a people
                        whose permanent ideal is wealth, no matter how got or how used. That is
                        another way of saying that the chief characteristic of Americans is that we
                        are human and, whatever we may profess, cherish the human ideal universal in
                        a world where want is man's wickedest enemy and wealth his most
                        winning friend. But as I was relating, I was elected, and my majority, on
                        the face of the returns,  was between ten and
                        eleven hundred. It must actually have been many thousands, for never before
                        had Dominick "doctored" the tally sheets so recklessly.
                    Financially I was now on my way to the surface. I supposed that I had become
                        a political personage also. Was I not in possession of the most powerful
                        office in the county? I was astonished that neither Dominick nor any other
                        member of his gang made the slightest effort to conciliate me between
                        election day and the date of my taking office. I did succeed in forcing from
                        reluctant grand juries indictments against a few of the most notorious, but
                        least important, members of the gang; and I got one convictionwhich was
                        reversed on trial-errors by the higher court.
                    The truth was that my power had no existence. Dominick still ruled, through
                        the judges and the newspapers. The press was silent when it could not
                        venture to deprecate or to condemn me.
                    But I fought on almost alone. I did not fail to make it clear to the people
                        why I was not succeeding, and what a sweep there must be before  Jackson County could have any real reform. I
                        made an even more vigorous campaign for reelection than I had made four
                        years before. The farmers stood by me fairly well, but the town went
                        overwhelmingly against me. Why? Because I was "bad for
                        business" and, if reelected, would be still worse. The corporations
                        with whose law-breaking I interfered were threatening to remove their plants
                        from Pulaski,that would have meant the departure of thousands of the
                        merchants' best customers, and the destruction of the
                        town's prosperity. I think the election was fairly honest.
                        Dominick's man beat me by about the same majority by which I had
                        been elected.
                    "Bad for business!"the most potent of political slogans.
                        And it will inevitably result some day in the concentration of absolute
                        power, political and all other kinds, in the hands of the few who are
                        strongest and cleverest. For they can make the people bitterly regret and
                        speedily repent having tried to correct abuses; and the people, to save
                        their dollars, will sacrifice their liberty. I doubt if they will, in our
                        time at least, learn  to see far enough to
                        realize that who captures their liberty captures them and, therefore, their
                        dollars too.
                    By my defeat in that typical contest I was disheartened, embittered,and
                        ruined. For, in my enthusiasm and confidence I had gone deeply into debt for
                        the expenses of the Reform campaign. At midnight of election day I descended
                        into the black cave of despair. For three weeks I explored it. When I
                        returned to the surface, I was a man, ready to deal with men on the terms of
                        human nature. I had learned my lesson.
                    For woman the cost of the attainment of womanhood's maturity is the
                        beautiful, the divine freshness of girlhood. For man, the cost of the
                        attainment of manhood's full strength and power is equally great,
                        and equally sad,his divine faith in human nature, his divine belief that
                        abstract justice and right and truth rule the world.
                    Even now, when life is redeeming some of those large promises to pay which I
                        had long ago given up as hopeless bad debts; even now, it gives me a wrench
                        to remember the cruelest chapter in  that
                        bitter lesson. So certain had I been of reelection that I had arranged to go
                        to Boston the day after my triumph at the polls. For I knew from friends of
                        the Crosbys in Pulaski that Elizabeth was still unmarried, was not engaged,
                        and upon that I had built high a romantic hope.
                    I made up my mind that mother and I must leave Pulaski, that I must give up
                        the law and must, in Chicago or Cleveland, get something to do that would
                        bring in a living at once. Before I found courage to tell her that which
                        would blast hopes wrapped round and rooted in her very heart, and,
                        fortunately, before I had to confess to her the debts I had made, Edward
                        Ramsay threw me a life-line.
                    He came bustling into my office one afternoon, big and broad, and obviously
                        pleased with himself, and, therefore, with the world. He had hardly changed
                        in the years since we were at Ann Arbor together. He had kept up our
                        friendship, and had insisted on visiting me several times, though not in the
                        past four years, which had been as busy for him as for me. Latterly his  letters urging me to visit him at their great
                        country place, away at the other end of the state, had set me a hard task of
                        inventing excuses.
                    "Well, well!" he exclaimed, shaking my hand violently in
                        both his. "You wouldn't come to see me, so I've
                        come to you."
                    I tried not to show the nervousness this announcement stirred.
                        "I'm afraid you'll find our hospitality rather
                        uncomfortable," was all I said. Mother and I had not spread much
                        sail to our temporary gust of prosperity; and when the storm began to
                        gather, she straightway closereefed.
                    "Thanks, but I can't stop with you this time,"
                        said he. "I'm making an inspection of the Power
                        Trust's properties, and I've got mother and sister along.
                        We're living in the private car the company gives me for the
                        tour." He went on to tell how, since his father's death,
                        he had been forced into responsibilities, and was, among many other things,
                        a member of the Power Trust's executive committee.
                    Soon came the inevitable question, "And how are you getting
                        on?"
                    
                    "So so," replied I; "not too well, just at the
                        present. I was beaten, you know, and have to go back to my practice in
                        January."
                    "Wish you lived in my part of the state," said he.
                        "But the Ramsay Company hasn't anything down
                        here." He reflected a moment, then beamed. "I can get you
                        the legal business of the Power Trust if you want it," he said.
                        "Their lawyer down here goes on the bench, you knowhe was on the
                        ticket that won. Roebuck wanted a good, safe, first-class man on the bench
                        in this circuit."
                    But he added nothing more about the Power Trust vacancy at Pulaski. True, my
                        first impulse was that I couldn't and wouldn't accept;
                        also, I told myself it was absurd to imagine they would consider me. Still,
                        I wished to hear, and his failure to return to the subject settled once more
                        the clouds his coming had lifted somewhat.
                    Mother was not well enough to have the Ram says at the house that evening, so
                        I dined with them in the car. Mrs. Ramsay was the same simple, silent,
                        ill-at-ease person I had first met at the Ann Arbor commencement,probably
                        the  same that she had been ever since her
                        husband's wealth and her children's infection with
                        newfangled ideas had forced her from the plain ways of her youth. I liked
                        her, but I was not so well pleased with her daughter. Carlotta was then
                        twenty-two, had abundant, noticeably nice brown hair, an indifferent skin,
                        pettish lips, and restless eyes, a little too close together,a spoiled
                        wilful young woman, taking to herself the deference that had been paid
                        chiefly to her wealth. She treated me as if I were a candidate for her favor
                        whom she was testing so that she might decide whether she would be
                        graciously pleased to tolerate him.
                    Usually, superciliousness has not disturbed me. It is a cheap and harmless
                        pleasure of cheap and harmless people. But just at that time my nerves were
                        out of order, and Miss Ramsay's airs of patronage
                        "got" on me. I proceeded politely to convey to her the
                        impression that she did not attract me, that I did not think her worth
                        whilethis, not through artful design of interesting by piquing, but simply
                        in the hope of rasping upon her as she was rasping upon me.  When I saw that I had gained my point, I
                        ignored her. I tried to talk with Ed, then with his mother, but neither
                        would interfere between me and Carlotta. I had to talk to her until she
                        voluntarily lapsed into offended silence. Then Ed, to save the evening from
                        disaster, began discussing with me the fate of our class-mates. I saw that
                        Carlotta was studying me curiously,even resentfully, I thought; and she was
                        coldly polite when I said good night.
                    She and her mother called on my mother the next morning. "And what a
                        nice girl Miss Ramsay is,so sensible, so intelligent, and so
                        friendly!" said my mother, relating the incidents of the visit in
                        minute detail when I went home at noon.
                    "I didn't find her especially friendly," said I.
                        Whereat I saw, or fancied I saw, a smile deep down in her eyes,and it set me
                        to thinking.
                    In the afternoon Ed looked in at my office in the court-house to say good-by.
                        "But first, old man, I want to tell you I got that place for you. I
                        thought I had better use the wire. Old Roebuck is delighted,telegraphed me
                        to close the arrangement  at once,congratulated
                        me on being able to get you. I knew it'd be so. He has his eyes
                        skinned for bright young men,all those big men have. Whenever a fellow,
                        especially a bright young lawyer, shows signs of ability, they scoop him
                        in."
                    "I can't believe it," said I, dazed.
                        "I've been fighting him for four yearshard."
                    "That's it!" said he. "And don't
                        you fret about its being a case of trying to heap coals of fire on your
                        head. Roebuck don't use the fireshovel for that sort of thing.
                        He's snapping you up because you've shown him what you can
                        do. That's the way to get on nowadays, they tell me. Whenever the
                        fellows on top find the chap, especially one in public office, who makes it
                        hot for them, they hire him. Good business all around."
                    Thus, so suddenly that it giddied me, I was translated from failure to
                        success, from poverty to affluence, from the most harassing anxiety to ease
                        and security. Two months before I should have rejected the Power
                        Trust's offer with scorn, and should have gloried in my act as
                        proof of superior virtue. But in those crucial 
                        two months I had been apprentice to the master whom all men that ever come
                        to anything in this world must first serve. I had reformed my line of
                        battle, had adjusted it to the lines laid down in the tactics of
                        Life-as-it-is.
                    Before I was able to convince myself that my fortunes had really changed, Ed
                        Ramsay telegraphed me to call on him in Fredonia on business of his own. It
                        proved to be such a trifle that I began to puzzle at his real reason for
                        sending for me. When he spun that trifle out over ten days, on each of which
                        I was alone with Carlotta at least half my waking hours, I thought I had the
                        clue to the mystery. I saw how I could increase the energy of his new
                        enthusiasm for me, and, also, how I could cool it, if I wished to be rash
                        and foolish and to tempt fate again.
                    "Oh, the business didn't amount to much," was my
                        answer to one of my mother's first questions, on my return. She
                        smiled peculiarly. In spite of my efforts, the red cameat least I felt red.
                    "How did you like his sister?" she went on, again with that
                        fluttering smile in the eyes only.
                    
                    "A very nice girl," said I, in anything but a natural
                        manner. My mother's expression teased me into adding:
                        "Don't be silly. Nothing of that sort.
                        You are always imagining that every one shares your opinion of me. She
                        isn't likely to fall in love with me. Certainly I shan't
                        with her."
                    Mother's silence somehow seemed argumentative.
                    "I couldn't marry a girl for her money," I
                        retorted to it.
                    "Of course not," rejoined mother. "But there are
                        other things to marry for besides money, or love,other things more sensible
                        than either. For instance, there are the principal things,home and
                        children."
                    I was listening with an open mind.
                    "The glamour of courtship and honeymoon passes," she went
                        on. "Then comes the sober business of living,your career and your
                        home. The woman's part in both is better played if there
                        isn't the sort of love that is exacting, always interfering with
                        the career, and making the home-life a succession of ups and downs, mostly
                        downs."
                    
                    "Carlotta is very ambitious," said I.
                    "Ambitious for her husband," replied my mother,
                        "as a sensible woman should be. She appreciates that a
                        woman's best chance for big dividends in marriage is by being the
                        silent partner in her husband's career. She'll be very
                        domestic when she has children. I saw it the instant I looked at her. She
                        has the true maternal instinct. What a man who's going to amount to
                        something needs isn't a woman to be taken care of, but a woman to
                        take care of him."
                    She said no more,she had made her point; and, when she had done that, she
                        always stopped.
                    Within a month Ed Ramsay sent for me again, but this time it was business
                        alone. I found him in a panic, like a man facing an avalanche and armed only
                        with a shovel. Dunkirk, the senior United States senator for our state,
                        lived at Fredonia. He had seen that, by tunneling the Mesaba Range, a
                        profitable railroad between Fredonia and Chicago could be built that would
                        shorten the time at least three hours. But it would take away about half the
                        carrying business of the Ramsay Company, besides seriously  depreciating the Ramsay interest in the
                        existing road. "And," continued Ed, "the old
                        scoundrel has got the capital practically subscribed in New York. The people
                        here are hot for the new road. It'll be sure to carry at the
                        special election, next month. He has the governor and legislature in his
                        vest pocket, so they'll put through the charter next
                        winter."
                    "I don't see that anything can be done," said
                        Ed's lawyer, old Judge Barclay, who was at the consultation.
                        "It means a big rake-off for Dunkirk. Politics is on a money basis
                        nowadays. That's natural enough, since there is money to be made
                        out of it. I don't see how those in politics that don't
                        graft, as they call it, are any better than those that do. Would they get
                        office if they didn't help on the jobs of the grafters? I suppose
                        we might buy Dunkirk off."
                    "What do you think, Harvey?" asked Ed, looking anxiously at
                        me. "We've got to fight the devil with fire, you
                        know."
                    I shook my head. "Buying him off isn't
                        fighting,it's surrender. We must fight him,with fire."
                    
                    I let them talk themselves out, and then said, "Well, I'll
                        take it to bed with me. Perhaps something will occur to me that can be
                        worked up into a scheme."
                    In fact, I had already thought of a scheme, but before suggesting it I wished
                        to be sure it was as good as it seemed. Also, there was a fundamental moral
                        obstacle,the road would be a public benefit; it ought to be built. That
                        moral problem caused most of my wakefulness that night, simple though the
                        solution was when it finally came. The first thing Ed said to me, as we
                        faced each other alone at breakfast, showed me how well spent those hours
                        were.
                    "About this business of the new road," said he.
                        "If I were the only party at interest, I'd let Dunkirk go
                        ahead, for it's undoubtedly a good thing from the public
                        standpoint. But I've got to consider the interests of all those
                        I'm trustee for,the other share-holders in the Ramsay Company and
                        in our other concerns here."
                    "Yes," replied I, "but why do you say Dunkirk
                        intends to build the road? Why do you take that for granted?"
                    
                    "He's all ready to do it, and it'd be a moneymaker
                        from the start."
                    "But," I went on, "you must assume that he has no
                        intention of building, that he is only making an elaborate bluff. How do you
                        know but that he wants to get this right of way and charter so that he can
                        blackmail you and your concerns, not merely once, but year after year?
                        You'd gladly pay him several hundred thousand a year not to use his
                        charter and right of way, wouldn't you?"
                    "I never thought of that!" exclaimed Ed. "I
                        believe you're right, Harvey, and you've taken a weight
                        off my conscience. There's nothing like a good lawyer to make a man
                        see straight. What an infernal hound old Dunkirk is!"
                    "And," I went on, "if he should build the road,
                        what would he do with it? Why, the easiest and biggest source of profit
                        would be to run big excursions every Saturday and Sunday, especially Sunday,
                        into Fredonia. He'd fill the place every Sunday, from May till
                        November, with roistering roughs from the slums of Chicago. How'd
                        the people like that?"
                    
                    "He wouldn't dare," objected Ramsay, stupidly
                        insisting on leaning backward in his determination to stand straight.
                        "He's a religious hypocrite. He'd be
                        afraid."
                    "As Deacon Dunkirk he wouldn't dare," I replied.
                        "But as the Chicago and Fredonia Short Line he'd dare
                        anything, and nobody would blame him personally. You know how that
                        is."
                    Ed was looking at me in dazed admiration. "Then," I went
                        on, "there are the retail merchants of Fredonia. Has it ever
                        occurred to them, in their excitement in favor of this road, that
                        it'll ruin them? Where will the shopping be done if the women can
                        get to Chicago in two hours and a half?"
                    "You're right, you're right!" exclaimed
                        Ed, rising to pace the floor in his agitation. "Bully for you,
                        Harvey! We'll show the people that the road'll ruin the
                        town morally and financially."
                    "But you must come out in favor of it," said I.
                        "We mustn't give Dunkirk the argument that you're
                        fighting it because you'd be injured by it. No, you must be hot for
                        the road. Perhaps you might give out that you were considering selling  your property on the lake front to a company
                        that was going to change it into a brewery and huge pleasure park. As the
                        lake's only a few hundred yards wide, with the town along one bank
                        and your place along the other, why, I think that'd rouse the
                        people to their peril."
                    "That's the kind of fire to fight the devil with,"
                        said he, laughing. "I don't think Mister Senator Dunkirk
                        will get the consent of Fredonia."
                    "But there's the legislature," said I.
                    His face fell. "I'm afraid he'll do us in the end,
                        old man."
                    I thought not, but I only said, "Well, we've got until next
                        winter,if we can beat him here."
                    Ed insisted that I must stay on and help him at the delicate task of
                        reversing the current of Fredonia sentiment. My share of the work was
                        important enough, but, as it was confined entirely to making suggestions, it
                        took little of my time. I had no leisure, however, for there was Carlotta to
                        look after.
                    When it was all over and she had told Ed and he had shaken hands with her and
                        had kissed me  and had otherwise shown the
                        chaotic condition of his mind, and she and I were alone again, she said,
                        "How did it happen? I don't remember that you really
                        proposed to me. Yet we certainly are engaged."
                    "We certainly are," said I, "and that's
                        the essential point, isn't it?"
                    "Yes," she admitted, "but," and she
                        looked mystified.
                    "We drifted," I suggested.
                    She glanced at me with a smile that was an enigma. "Yeswe just
                        drifted. Why do you look at me so queerly?"
                    "I was just going to ask you that same question," said I by
                        way of evasion.
                    Then we both fell to thinking, and after a long time she roused herself to
                        say, "But we shall be very happy. I am so fond of you. And you are
                        going to be a great man and you do so look it, even if you aren't
                        tall and fair, as I always thought the man I married would be.
                        Don't look at me like that. Your eyes are strange enough when you
                        are smiling; but when youI often wonder what you're so sad
                        about."
                    
                    "Have you ever seen a grown person's face that
                        wasn't sad in repose?" I asked, eager to shift from the
                        particular to the general.
                    "A few idiots or near idiots," she replied with a laugh.
                        Thereafter we talked of the future and let the past sleep in its uncovered
                        coffin.
                
                
                
                    V
                    A GOOD MAN AND HIS WOES
                    After Ed and I had carried the Fredonia election against Dunkirk's
                        road, we went fishing with Roebuck in the northern Wisconsin woods. I had
                        two weeks, two uninterrupted weeks, in which to impress myself upon him;
                        besides, there was Ed, who related in tedious but effective detail, on the
                        slightest provocation, the achievements that had made him my devoted
                        admirer. So, when I went to visit Roebuck, in June, at his house near
                        Chicago, he was ready to listen to me in the proper spirit.
                    I soon drew him on to tell of his troubles with Dunkirkhow the Senator was
                        gouging him and every big corporation doing business in the state.
                        "I've been loyal to the party for forty years,"
                        said he bitterly, "yet, if I had been on the other side it
                        couldn't cost me more to do business. I have to pay enough here,
                        heaven knows. But it costs me more in your state,with your man  Dunkirk." His white face grew pink
                        with anger. "It's monstrous! Yet you should have heard him
                        address my Sunday-school scholars at the last annual outing I gave them.
                        What an evidence of the power of religion it is that such wretches as he pay
                        the tribute of hypocrisy to it!"
                    His business and his religion were Roebuck's two absorbing
                        passions,religion rapidly predominating as he drew further away from sixty.
                    "Why do you endure this blackmailing, Mr. Roebuck?" I
                        asked. "He is growing steadily worse."
                    "He is certainly more rapacious than he was ten years ago,"
                        Roebuck admitted. "Our virtues or our vices, whichever we give the
                        stronger hold on us, become more marked as we approach Judgment. When we
                        finally go, we are prepared for the place that has been prepared for
                        us."
                    "But why do you put up with his impudence?"
                    "What can we do? He has political power and is our only protection
                        against the people. They have been inflamed with absurd notions about their
                        rights. They are filled with envy and suspicion of the rich. They have
                        passed laws to hamper  us in developing the
                        country, and want to pass more and worse laws. So we must either go out of
                        business and let the talents God has given us lie idle in a napkin, or pay
                        the Dunkirks to prevent the people from having their ignorant wicked way,
                        and destroying us and themselves. For how would they get work if we
                        didn't provide it for them?"
                    "A miserable makeshift system," said I, harking back to
                        Dunkirk and his blackmailing, for I was not just then in the mood to amuse
                        myself with the contortions of Roebuck's flexible and fantastic
                        "moral sense."
                    "I've been troubled in conscience a great deal, Harvey, a
                        great deal, about the morality of what we business men are forced to do. I
                        hopeindeed I feelthat we are justified in protecting our property in the
                        only way open to us. The devil must be fought with fire, you know."
                    "How much did Dunkirk rob you of last year?" I asked.
                    "Nearly three hundred thousand dollars," he said, and his
                        expression suggested that each dollar had been separated from him with as
                        great  agony as if it had been so much flesh
                        pinched from his body. "There was Dominick, besides, and a lot of
                        infamous strike-bills to be quieted. It cost five hundred thousand dollars
                        in allin your state alone. And we didn't ask a single bit of new
                        legislation. All the money was paid just to escape persecution under those
                        alleged laws! Yet they call this a free country! When I think of the
                        martyrdomyes, the mental and moral martyrdom, of the men who have made this
                        country What are the few millions a man may amass, in compensation for what
                        he has to endure? Why, Sayler, I've not the slightest doubt you
                        could find well-meaning, yes, really honest, God-fearing people, who would
                        tell you I am a scoundrel! I have read sermons, delivered
                        from pulpits against me! Sermons from
                            pulpits!"
                    "I have thought out a plan," said I, after a
                        moment's silent and shocked contemplation of this deplorable state
                        of affairs, "a plan to end Dunkirk and cheapen the cost of
                        political business."
                    At "cheapen the cost" his big ears twitched as if they had
                        been tickled.
                    "You can't expect to get what you need for  nothing," I continued, "in
                        the present state of public opinion. But I'm sure I could reduce
                        expenses by halfat least half."
                    I had his undivided attention.
                    "It is patently absured," I went on, "that you who
                        finance politics and keep in funds these fellows of both machines should let
                        them treat you as if you were their servants. Why don't you put
                        them in their place, servants at servants' wages?"
                    "But I've no time to go into politics,and I don't
                        know anything about itdon't want to know. It's a low
                        business,ignorance, corruption, filthiness."
                    "Take Dunkirk, for example," I pushed on. "His
                        lieutenants and heelers hate him because he doesn't divide
                        squarely. The only factor in his power is the rank and file of the voters of
                        our party. They, I'm convinced, are pretty well aware of his
                        hypocrisy,but it doesn't matter much what they think. They vote
                        like sheep and accept whatever leaders and candidates our machine gives
                        them. They are almost stone-blind in their partizanship and they can always
                        be fooled  up to the necessary point. And we
                        can fool them ourselves, if we go about it right, just as well as Dunkirk
                        does it for hire."
                    "But Dunkirk is their man, isn't
                        he?" he suggested.
                    "Any man is their man whom you choose to give them,"
                        replied I. "And don't you give them
                        Dunkirk? He takes the money from the big business interests, and with it
                        hires the men to sit in the legislature and finances the machine throughout
                        the state. It takes big money to run a political machine. His power belongs
                        to you people, to a dozen of you, and you can take it away from him; his
                        popularity belongs to the party, and it would cheer just as loudly for any
                        other man who wore the party uniform."
                    "I see," he said reflectively; "the machine rules
                        the party, and money rules the machine, and we supply the money and
                        don't get the benefit. It's as if I let my wife or one of
                        my employs run my property."
                    "Much like that," I answered. "Now, why
                        shouldn't you finance the machine directly and do away with
                        Dunkirk, who takes as his own wages  about half
                        what you give him? He takes it and wastes it in stock speculations,gambling
                        with your hard-earned wealth, gambling it away cheerfully, because he feels
                        that you people will always give him more."
                    "What do you propose?" he asked; and I could see that his
                        acute business mind was ready to pounce upon my scheme and search it
                        hopefully if mercilessly.
                    "A secret, absolutely secret, combine of a dozen of the big
                        corporations of my state,those that make the bulk of the political
                        business,the combine to be under the management of some man whom they trust
                        and whose interests are business, not political."
                    "He would have enormous power," said Roebuck.
                    I knew that he would point first and straight at that phase of my scheme, no
                        matter how subtly I might disguise it. So I had pushed it into his face and
                        had all but pointed at it myself so that I might explain it away.
                        "Power?" said I. "How do you make that out? Any
                        member of the combine that is dissatisfied can withdraw at any time  and go back to the old way of doing business.
                        Besides, the manager won't dare appear in it at all,he'll
                        have to hide himself from the people and from the politicians, behind some
                        popular figurehead. There's another advantage that mustn't
                        be overlooked. Dunkirk and these other demagogues who bleed you are
                        inflaming public sentiment more and more against you big
                        corporations,that's their way of frightening you into yielding to
                        their demands. Under the new plan their demagoguery would cease.
                        Don't you think it's high time for the leaders of commerce
                        and industry to combine intelligently against demagoguery? Don't
                        you think they have cringed before it, and have financed and fostered it too
                        long?"
                    This argument, which I had reserved for the last, had all the effect I
                        anticipated. He sat rubbing his broad, bald forehead, twisting his white
                        whiskers and muttering to himself. Presently he asked, "When are
                        you and Lottie Ramsay going to be married?"
                    "In the fall," said I. "In about three
                        months."
                    "Well, we'll talk this over againafter you  are married and settled. If you had the
                        substantial interests to give you the steadiness and ballast, I think
                        you'd be the very man for your scheme. Yes, somethingsome such
                        thing as you suggestmust be done to stop the poisoning of public opinion
                        against the country's best and strongest men. The political
                        department of the business interests ought to be as thoroughly organized as
                        the other departments are. Come to me again after you're
                        married."
                    I saw that his mind was fixed, that he would be unable to trust me until I
                        was of his class, of the aristocracy of corpulent corporate persons. I went
                        away much downcast; but, two weeks afterward he telegraphed for me, and when
                        I came he at once brought up the subject of the combine.
                    "Go ahead with it," he said. "I've been
                        thinking it over and talking it over. We shall need only nine others besides
                        myself and you. You represent the Ramsay interest."
                    He equipped me with the necessary letters of introduction and sent me forth
                        on a tour of my state. When it was ended, my "combine" was
                        formed. And I was the combine,was master of  this political blind pool. I had taken the
                        first, the hardest step, toward the realization of my dream of real
                        political power,to become an unbossed boss, not the agent and servant of
                        Plutocracy or Partizanship, but using both to further my own purposes and
                        plans.
                    I had thus laid out for myself the difficult feat of controlling two fiery
                        steeds. Difficult, but not impossible, if I should develop skill as a
                        driverfor the skilful driver has a hand so light that his horses fancy they
                        are going their own road at their own gait.
                
                
                
                    VI
                    MISS RAMSAY REVOLTS
                    The last remark Roebuck had made to meon his doorstep, as I was starting on
                        my missionwas: "Can't you and Lottie hurry up that
                        marriage of yours? You ought to get it over and out of the way."
                        When I returned home with my mission accomplished, the first remark my
                        mother made after our greeting was: "Harvey, I wish you and Lottie
                        were going to marry a little sooner."
                    A note in her voice made me look swiftly at her, and then, without a word, I
                        was on my knees, my face in her lap and she stroking my head. "I
                        feel that I'm going toto your father, dear," she said.
                    I heard and I thought I realized; but I did not. Who, feeling upon him the
                        living hand of love, was ever able to imagine that hand other than alive?
                        But her look of illness, of utter exhaustion,that I
                        understood and suffered for. "You 
                        must rest," said I; "you must sit quiet and be waited on
                        until you are strong again."
                    "Yes, I will rest," she answered, "as soon as my
                        boy is settled."
                    That very day I wrote Carlotta telling her about mother's health and
                        asking her to change the date of our wedding to the first week in August,
                        then just under a month away. She telegraphed me to come and talk it over.
                    She was at the station in her phaeton to meet me. We had not driven far
                        before I felt and saw that she was intensely irritated against me. As I
                        unburdened my mind of my anxieties about mother, she listened coldly. And I
                        had to wait a long time before I got her answer, in a strained voice and
                        with averted eyes: "Of course, I'm sorry your mother
                        isn't well, but I can't get ready that soon."
                    It was not her words that exasperated me; the lightning of speech from the
                        storm-clouds of anger tends to clear the air. It was her expression.
                    Never have I known any one who could concentrate into brows and eyes and chin
                        and lips  more of that sullen and aggressive
                        obstinacy which is the climax of provocativeness. Patience, in thought at
                        least, with refusal has not been one of my virtues. This refusal of hers,
                        this denial of happiness to one who had deserved so much and had received so
                        little, set temper to working in me like a quick poison. But I was silent,
                        not so much from prudence as from inability to find adequate words.
                    "I can't do it," repeated Carlotta, "and
                        I won't." She made it clear that she meant the
                        "won't,"that she was bent upon a quarrel.
                    But in my struggle to train those stanchest of servants and maddest of
                        masters, the passions, I had got at least far enough always to choose both
                        the time and the ground of a quarrel. So I said: "Very well,
                        Carlotta. Then, that is settled." And with an air sufficiently
                        deceptive to pass muster before angry eyes, I proceeded to talk of
                        indifferent matters.
                    As I sat beside her, my temper glowering in the straining leash, I revolved
                        her conduct and tried to puzzle out its meaning. It is clear, thought I,
                        that she does not care for me as people  about
                        to marry usually profess to care. Then, does she wish to break the
                        engagement?
                    That tamed my anger instantly.
                    Yes, I thought on, she wishes to be freeto free me. And, as my combine is
                        formed and my career well advanced in the way to being established, what
                        reason is there for trying to prevent her from freeing herself? Nonefor I
                        can easily explain the situation to mother. "Yes," I
                        concluded, "you can avoid a quarrel, can remain friends with
                        Carlotta, can give and get freedom." What had changed her? I did
                        not know; I did not waste time in puzzling; I did not tempt fate by asking.
                        "You are poor, she is rich," I reminded myself.
                        "That makes it impossible for you to hesitate. You must give her no
                        excuse for thinking you lack pride."
                    Thus I reasoned and planned, my temper back in its kennel and peaceful as a
                        sheep. That evening I avoided being alone with her; just as I was debating
                        how to announce that I must be leaving by the first train in the morning a
                        telegram came from Roebuck calling me to Chicago at once. When we were all
                        going to bed, I said to Mrs.
                    
                    Ramsay: "I shall see you and Ed in the morning, but"to
                        Carlotta"you don't get up so early. I'll say
                        good-by now,"this in the friendliest possible way.
                    I was conscious of Mrs. Ramsay's look of wonder and anxiety; of
                        Ed's wild stare from Carlotta to me and back again at her. She bit
                        her lip and her voice was unsteady as she said: "Oh, no, Harvey.
                        I'll be up." There was a certain meekness in her tone
                        which would probably have delighted me had I been what is usually called
                        "masterful."
                    When I came down at seven o'clock after an unquiet night, Carlotta
                        was lying in wait for me, took me into the parlor and shut the door.
                        "What do you mean?" she demanded, facing me with something
                        of her wonted imperiousness.
                    "Mean?" said I, for once feeling no resentment at her
                        manner.
                    "By leavingthis way," she explained with impatience.
                    "You heard Mr. Roebuck's telegram," said I.
                    "You are angry with me," she persisted.
                    "No, Carlotta," said I. "I was, but I am not.
                    
                    As soon as I saw what you wished, I was grateful, not angry."
                    "What did I wish?"
                    "To let me know as gently and kindly as you could that you purposed
                        to end our engagement. And I guess you are right. We do not seem to care for
                        each other as we ought if we"
                    "You misunderstood me," she said, pale and with flashing
                        eyes, and in such a struggle with her emotions that she could say no more.
                    If I had not seen that only her pride and her vanity were engaged in the
                        struggle, and her heart not at all, I think I should have abandoned my
                        comfortable self-deception that my own pride forbade discussion with her. As
                        it was, I was able to say: "Don't try to spare me,
                        Carlotta, I'm glad you had the courage and the good sense not to
                        let us both drift into irrevocable folly. I thank you." I opened
                        the door into the hall. "Let us talk no more about it. We could say
                        to each other only the things that sting or the things that stab. Let us be
                        friends. You must give me your friendship, at least." I took her
                        hand.
                    She looked strangely at me. "You want me  to humble myself, to crawl at your feet and beg your pardon,"
                        said she between her teeth. "But I shan't." She
                        snatched away her hand and threw back her head.
                    "I wish nothing but what is best for us both," said I.
                        "But let us not talk of it nowwhen neither of us is calm."
                    "You don't care for me!" she cried.
                    "Do you love me?" I
                        rejoined.
                    Her eyes shifted. I waited for her reply and, when it did not come, I said:
                        "Let us go to breakfast."
                    "I'll not go in just now," she answered, in a
                        quiet tone, a sudden and strange shift from that of the moment before. And
                        she let me take her hand, echoed my good-by, and made no further attempt to
                        detain me.
                    That was a gloomy breakfast despite my efforts to make my own seeming of
                        good-humor permeate to the others. Mrs. Ramsay hid a somber face behind the
                        coffee-urn; Ed ate furiously, noisily, choking every now and then. He drove
                        me to the station; his whole body was probably as damp from his emotions as
                        were his eyes and  his big friendly hand. The
                        train got under way; I drew a long breath. I was free.
                    But somehow freedom did not taste as I had anticipated. Though I reminded
                        myself that I had acted as any man with pride and self-respect would have
                        acted in such delicate circumstances, and though I knew that Carlotta was no
                        more in love with me than I was with her, this end to our engagement seemed
                        even more humiliating to me than its beginning had seemed. It was one more
                        instance of that wretched fatality which has pursued me through life, which
                        has made every one of my triumphs come to me in mourning robes and with a
                        gruesome face. In the glittering array of "prizes" that
                        tempts man to make a beast and a fool of himself in the gladiatorial show
                        called Life, the sorriest, the most ironic, is the grand prize, Victory.
                    The parlor car was crowded; its only untaken seat was in the smoking
                        compartment, which had four other occupants, deep in a game of poker. Three
                        of them were types of commonplace, prosperous Americans; the fourth could
                             not be so easily classed and, therefore,
                        interested meespecially as I was in the mood to welcome anything that would
                        crowd to the background my far from agreeable thoughts.
                    The others called him "Doc," or Woodruff. As they played,
                        they drank from flasks produced by each in turn. Doc drank with the others,
                        and deeper than any of them. They talked more and more, he less and less,
                        until finally he interrupted their noisy volubility only when the game
                        compelled. I saw that he was one of those rare men upon whom amiable
                        conversation or liquor or any other relaxing force has the reverse of the
                        usual effect. Instead of relaxing, he drew himself together and concentrated
                        more obstinately upon his game. Luck, so far as the cards controlled it, was
                        rather against him, and the other three players took turns at audacious and
                        by no means unskilful play. I was soon admiring the way he "sized
                        up" and met each in turn. Prudence did not make him timid. He
                        advanced and retreated, "bluffed" and held aloof, with
                        acuteness and daring.
                    At a station perhaps fifty miles from Chicago, 
                        the other three left,and Doc had four hundredodd dollars of their money.
                    I dropped into the seat opposite himit was by the windowand amused myself
                        watching him, while waiting for a chance to talk with him; for I saw that he
                        was a superior person, and, in those days, when I was inconspicuous and so
                        was not compelled constantly to be on guard, I never missed a chance to
                        benefit by such exchanges of ideas.
                    He was apparently about forty years old, to strike a balance between the
                        youth of eyes, mouth, and contour, and the age of deep lines and grayish,
                        thinning hair. He had large, frank, blue eyes, a large nose, a strong
                        forehead and chin, a grossly self-indulgent mouth,there was the weakness,
                        there, as usual! Evidently, the strength his mind and character gave him
                        went in pandering to physical appetites. In confirmation of this, there were
                        two curious marks on him,a nick in the rim of his left ear, a souvenir of a
                        bullet or a knife, and a scar just under the edge of his chin to the right.
                        When he compressed his lips, this scar, not especially noticeable at other
                        times,  lifted up into his face, became of a
                        sickly, bluish white, and transformed a careless, good-humored cynic into a
                        man of danger, of terror.
                    His reverie began, as I gathered from his unguarded face, in cynical
                        amusement, probably at his triumph over his friends. It passed on to still
                        more agreeable things,something in the expression of the mouth suggested
                        thoughts of how he was going to enjoy himself as he "blew
                        in" his winnings. Then his features shadowed, darkened, and I had
                        my first view of the scar terrible. He shook his big head and big shoulders,
                        roused himself, made ready to take a drink, noticed me, and said,
                        "Won't you join me?" His look was most engaging.
                    I accepted and we were soon sociable, each taking an instinctive liking to
                        the other. We talked of the business situation, of the news in the papers,
                        and then of political affairs. Each of us saw that there he was at the
                        other's keenest interest in life. He knew the game,practical
                        politics as distinguished from the politics talked by and to the public. But
                        he evaded, without seeming to do so, all the ingenious traps I laid for
                        drawing from  him some admission that would
                        give me a clue to where he "fitted in." I learned no more
                        about him than I thought he learned about me.
                    "I hope we shall meet again," said I cordially, as we
                        parted at the cab-stand.
                    "Thank you," he answered, and afterward I remembered the
                        faint smile in his eyes.
                    I, of course, knew that Roebuck was greatly interested in my project for
                        putting political business on a business basis; but not until he had
                        explained why he sent for me did I see how it had fascinated and absorbed
                        his mind. "You showed me," he began, "that you
                        must have under you a practical man to handle the money and do the arranging
                        with the heelers and all that sort of thing."
                    "Yes," said I; "it's a vital part of the
                        plan. We must find a man who is perfectly trustworthy and discreet.
                        Necessarily he'll know or suspect somethingnot much, but still
                        somethingof the inside workings of the combine."
                    "Well, I've found him," went on Roebuck, in a
                        triumphant tone. "He's a godless person. with no character
                        to lose, and no conception of what  character
                        means. But he's straight as a string. Providence seems to have
                        provided such men for just such situations as these, where the devil must be
                        fought with fire. I've been testing him for nearly fifteen years.
                        But you can judge for yourself."
                    I was the reverse of pleased. It was not in my calculations to have a
                        creature of Roebuck's foisted upon me, perhapsindeed, probablya
                        spy. I purposed to choose my own man; and I decided while he was talking,
                        that I would accept the Roebuck selection only to drop him on some plausible
                        pretext before we began operations. I was to meet the man at dinner,Roebuck
                        had engaged a suite at the Auditorium. "It wouldn't do to
                        have him at my house or club," said he; "neither do we
                        want to be seen with him."
                    Coincidence is so familiar a part of the daily routine that I was not much
                        surprised when my acquaintance, the astute poker player with the scar,
                        walked in upon us at the Auditorium. But Roebuck was both astonished and
                        chagrined when we shook hands and greeted each other like old friends.
                    
                    "How do you do, Mr. Sayler?" said Woodruff.
                    "Glad to see you, Doctor Woodruff," I replied.
                        "Then you knew me all the time? Why didn't you speak out?
                        We might have had an hour's business talk in the train."
                    "If I'd shown myself as leaky as all that, I guess
                        there'd have been no business to talk about," he replied.
                        "Anyhow, I didn't know you till you took out your watch
                        with the monogram on the back, just as we were pulling in. Then I remembered
                        where I'd seen your face before. I was up at your state house the
                        day that you threw old Dominick down. That's been a good many years
                        ago."
                    That chance, easy, smoking-compartment meeting, at which each had studied the
                        other dispassionately, was most fortunate for us both.
                    The relation that was to exist between usmore, much more, than that of mere
                        employer and employmade fidelity, personal fidelity, imperative; and
                        accident had laid the foundation for the mutual attachment without which
                        there is certain to be, sooner or later, suspicion on both sides, and cause
                        for it.
                    
                    The two hours and a half with Woodruff, at and after dinner, served to
                        reinforce my first impression. I saw that he was a thorough man of the
                        world, that he knew politics from end to end, and that he understood the
                        main weaknesses of human nature and how to play upon them for the advantage
                        of his employers and for his own huge amusement. He gave a small exhibition
                        of that skill at the expense of Roebuck. He appreciated that Roebuck was one
                        of those unconscious hypocrites who put conscience out of court in advance
                        by assuming that whatever they wish to do is right or they
                        could not wish to do it. He led Roebuck on to show off this peculiarity of
                        his,a jumbling, often in the same breath, of the most sonorous piety and the
                        most shameless business perfidy. All the time Woodruff's face was
                        perfectly grave,there are some men who refuse to waste any of their internal
                        enjoyment in external show.
                    Before he left us I arranged to meet him the next morning for the settlement
                        of the details of his employment. When Roebuck and I were  alone, I said: "What do you know
                        about him? Who is he?"
                    "He comes of a good family here in Chicago,one of the best. Perhaps
                        you recall the Bowker murder?"
                    "Vaguely," I answered.
                    "It was Woodruff who did it. We had a hard time getting him off.
                        Bowker and Woodruff's younger brother were playing cards one day,
                        and Bowker accused him of cheating. Young Woodruff drew,perhaps they both
                        drew at the same time. At any rate, Bowker shot first and killed his man,he
                        got off on the plea of self-defense. It was two years before Bowker and Doc
                        met,in the lobby of the Palmer House,I happened to be there. I was talking
                        to a friend when suddenly I felt as if something awful was about to happen.
                        I started up, and saw Bowker just rising from a table at the far end of the
                        room. I shan't ever forget his look,like a bird charmed by a snake.
                        His lips were ajar and wrinkled as if his blood had fled away inside of him,
                        and his throat was expanding and contracting."
                    
                    Roebuck wiped beads of sweat from his forehead. "It was Doc Woodruff
                        walking slowly toward him, with a wicked smile on his face, and that scaryou
                        noticed the scar?"
                    I nodded.
                    "Well, you can imagine how that scar stood out. He came slowly on,
                        nobody able to move a muscle to stop him. When he was about ten feet from
                        Bowker and as near me as you are now, Bowker gave a kind of shudder and
                        scream of fright, drew his pistol, and fired. The bullet clipped
                        Woodruff's ear. Quick as that" Roebuck snapped his
                        fingers"Doc drew, and sent a bullet into his heart. He fell forward
                        across the table and his pistol crashed on the marble floor. Doc looked at
                        him, gave a cold sort of laugh, like a jeer and a curse, and walked out into
                        the street. When he met a policeman he said, 'I've killed
                        Dick Bowker. Here's my gun. Lock me up'perfectly cool,
                        just as he talked to us tonight."
                    "And you got him off?"
                    "Yes. I hated to do it, too, for Dick was one  of my best friends. But Doc was too useful to us. In his line
                        he's without an equal."
                    "How did he get that scar?" said I.
                    "Nobody knows. He left here when he was a boy,to avoid being sent to
                        the reformatory. When he turned up, after a dozen years, he said he had been
                        a doctor, but didn't say where or how. And he had that scar. One
                        day a man asked him how he got it. He picked up a bottle, and, with his
                        pleasant laugh, broke it over the fellow's jaw. 'About
                        like that,' said he. People don't ask him
                        questions."
                    "He's my man," said I.
                
                
                
                    VII
                    BYGONES
                    A telegram had been thrust under my door"I must see you.
                        Don't fail to stop off here on your way back. Answer.
                        Carlotta."
                    Again she was at the station in her phaeton. Her first look, long before I
                        was near enough for speech, showed me how her mood had changed; but she
                        waited until we were clear of the town. "Forgive me," she
                        then said in the abrupt, direct manner which was the expression of her
                        greatest charm, her absolute honesty. "I've got the
                        meanest temper in the world, but it don't last, and as soon as you
                        were gone I was ashamed of myself."
                    "I don't understand why you are making these
                        apologies," said I, "and I don't understand why
                        you were angry."
                    "That's what it means to be a man," she replied.
                        "Your letter about your mother made me furious. You hadn't
                        ever urged me to hurry up  the wedding on your
                        own account. And your letter made me feel as if, while you personally
                        didn't care whether we ever married or not, still for your
                        mother's sake you were willing toto sacrifice yourself."
                    "Let me see my letter," said I.
                    "I tore it into a thousand pieces," said she. "But
                        I don't mean that you really wrote just that. You didn't.
                        But you made me jealous of your mother, and my temper got hold of me, and
                        then I read the meanest kind of things into and under and all round every
                        word. AndI'm sorry."
                    I could find nothing to say. I saw my freedom slipping from me. I watched it,
                        sick at heart; yet, on the other hand, I neither tried nor wished to detain
                        it, though I could easily have made a renewal of our engagement impossible.
                        I have no explanation for this conflict of emotions and motives.
                    "Don't make it so hard for me," she went on.
                        "I never before in my life told anybody I was sorry for anything,
                        and I thought I never would. But I am sorry,
                        andwe'll have the wedding the first day of August."
                    
                    Still I found nothing to say. It was so painfully obvious that, true to her
                        training, she had not given and was not giving a thought to the state of my
                        mind and feelings. What she wished, that she would dothe
                        rest did not interest her.
                    "Are you satisfied, my lord?" she demanded. "Have
                        I humbled myself sufficiently?"
                    "You haven't humbled yourself at all," said I.
                        "You have only humbled me."
                    She did not pause on my remark long enough to see what it meant.
                        "Now that it's all settled," she said gaily,
                        "I don't mind telling you that I began to make my
                        preparations to be married on the first of Augustwhen, do you
                        think?"
                    "When?" I said.
                    "The very day I got your nasty letter, putting me second to your
                        mother." And she laughed, and was still laughing, when she added:
                        "So, you see, I was determined to marry you."
                    "I do," said I dryly. "I suppose I ought to feel
                        flattered."
                    "No, you oughtn't," she retorted. "I
                        simply made up my mind to marry you. And I'd do it, no matter what
                        it cost. I get that from father.  But I've got mother's disposition, tooand
                        that makes me far too good for such a cold, unsentimental, ambitious person
                        as you."
                    "Don't you think you're rather rash to confess so
                        franklywhen I could still escape?"
                    "Not at all," was her confident answer. "I know
                        you, and so I know nothing could make you break your word."
                    "There's some truth in that,"and I hope that I do
                        not deceive myself in thinking I was honest there. "More truth,
                        perhaps, than you guess."
                    She looked shrewdly at meand friendlily. "Don't be too sure
                        I haven't guessed," said she. "Nobody's
                        ever so blind as he lets others think. It's funny, isn't
                        it? There are things in your mind that you'd never tell me, and
                        things in my mind that I'd never tell you. And each of us guesses
                        most of them, without ever letting on." She laughed queerly, and
                        struck the horse smartly so that he leaped into a gait at which conversation
                        was impossible.
                    When we resumed, the subject was the details of our wedding.
                    At home again, I found my mother too ill to 
                        leave her bed. She had been ill before,many times when she wouldn't
                        confess it, several times when she was forced to admit it, but never before
                        so ill that she could not dress and come down stairs. "I shall be
                        up to-morrow," she assured me, and I almost believed her. She drew
                        a letter from under her pillow. "This came while you were
                        away," she went on. "I kept it here, because" a
                        look of shame flitted across her face, and then her eyes were steady and
                        proud again,"why should I be ashamed of it? I had the impulse to
                        destroy the letter, and I'm not sure but that I'm failing
                        in my duty."
                    I took it,yes, it was from Boston, from Betty. I opened it and fortunately
                        had nerved myself against showing myself to my mother. There was neither
                        beginning nor end, just a single sentence:
                    "From the bottom of my broken heart I am thankful that I have been
                        spared the horror of discovering I had bound myself for life to a
                        coward."
                    The shot went straight to the center of the target. But There lay my
                        motherdid she not  have the
                        right to determine my destinyshe who had given me my life and her own? I
                        tore up Betty's letter, and I looked at mother and said,
                        "There's nothing in that to make me waveror
                        regret." It was the only lie I ever told her. I told it well, thank
                        God, for she was convinced, and the look in her face repaid me a
                        thousand-fold. It repays me once more as I write.
                    Carlotta and I were married at her bedside, and she lived only until the next
                        day but one. When the doctor told me of the long concealed mortal disease
                        that was the cause of her going, he ended with: "And, Mr. Sayler,
                        it passes belief that she managed to keep alive for five years. I
                        can't understand it." But I understood.
                        She simply refused to go until she felt that her mission was accomplished.
                    "We must never forget her," said Carlotta, trying to
                        console me by grieving with me.
                    I did not answer,how could I explain? Never forget her! On the contrary, I
                        knew that I must forget, and that I must work and grow and so heal the wound
                        and cover its scar. I lost not a day in beginning.
                    
                    To those few succeeding months I owe the power I have had all these years to
                        concentrate my mind upon whatever I will to think about; for in those months
                        I fought the fight I dared not losefought it and won. Let those who have
                        never loved talk of remembering the dead.
                    I turned away from her grave with the resolve that my first act of power
                        would be to stamp out Dominick. But for him she would not have gone for many
                        a year. It was his persecutions that involved us in the miseries which
                        wasted her and made her fall a victim to the mortal disease. It was his
                        malignity that poisoned her last years, which, but for him, would have been
                        happy.
                    As my plans for ousting Dunkirk took shape, I saw clearly that, if he were to
                        be overthrown at once, I must use part of the existing control of the
                        machine of the party,it would take several years, at least three, to build
                        up an entirely new control. To work quickly, I must use Croffut,
                        Dunkirk's colleague in the Senate. And Croffut was the creature of
                        Dominick.
                    
                    Early in September Woodruff came to me, at Fredonia, his manner jubilant.
                        "I can get Dominick," he exclaimed. "He is
                        furious against Dunkirk because he's just discovered that Dunkirk
                        cheated him out of a hundred thousand dollars on that perpetual street
                        railway franchise, last winter."
                    "But we don't want Dominick," said I.
                    My face must have reflected my mind, for Woodruff merely replied,
                        "Oh, very well. Of course that alters the case."
                    "We must get Croffut without him," I went on.
                    Woodruff shook his head. "Can't get him," he said.
                        "Dominick controls the two southern ranges of counties. He finances
                        his own machine from what he collects from vice and crime in those cities.
                        He gives that branch of the plum tree to the boys. He keeps the bigger one,
                        the corporations, for himself."
                    "He can be destroyed," said I, waving aside these
                        significant reminders.
                    "Yes, in five years or so of hard work. Mean-while, Dunkirk will run
                        things at the capital to  suit himself.
                        Anyhow, you're taking on a good deal more than's
                        necessarystarting with two big fights, one of 'em against a man you
                        ought to use to do up the other. It's like breaking your own sword
                        at the beginning of the duel."
                    "Go back to the capital," said I, after a moment's
                        thought; "I'll telegraph you up there what to
                        do."
                    It was my first testmy first chance to show whether I had learned at the
                        savage school at which I had been a pupil. Scores, hundreds of men, can
                        plan, and plan wisely,at almost any cross-roads' general store you
                        hear in the conversation round the stove as good plans as ever moved the
                        world to admiration. But execution,there's the rub! And the first
                        essential of an executive is freedom from partialities and hatreds,not to
                        say, "Do I like him? Do I hate him? Was he my enemy a year or a
                        week or a moment ago?" but only to ask oneself the one question,
                        "Can he be useful to me now?"
                    "I will use Dominick to destroy Dunkirk, and then I will destroy
                        him," I said to myself. But that did not satisfy me. I saw that I
                        was temporizing  with the weakness that has
                        wrecked more careers than misjudgment. I felt that I must decide then and
                        there whether or not I would eliminate personal hatred from my life. After a
                        long and bitter struggle, I did decide once and for all.
                    I telegraphed Woodruff to go ahead. When I went back to Pulaski to settle my
                        affairs there, Dominick came to see me. Not that he dreamed of the existence
                        of my combine or of my connection with the new political deal, but simply
                        because I had married into the Ramsay family and was therefore now in the
                        Olympus of corporate power before which he was on his knees,for a price,
                        like a wise devotee, untroubled by any such qualmishness as self-respect. I
                        was ready for him. I put out my hand.
                    "I'm glad you're willing to let bygones be
                        bygones, Mr. Sayler," said he, so moved that the tears stood in his
                        eyes.
                    Then it flashed on me that, after all, he was only a big brute, driven
                        blindly by his appetites. How silly to plot revenges upon the creatures of
                        circumstancehow like a child beating the 
                        chair it happens to strike against! Hatreds and revenges are for the small
                        mind with small matters to occupy it. Of the stones I have quarried to build
                        my career, not one has been, or could have been, spared to waste as a
                        missile.
                    I went down to the Cedar Grove cemetery, where my mother lay beside my
                        father. My two sisters who died before I was born were at their feet; her
                        parents and his on either side. And I said to her, "Mother, I am
                        going to climb up to a place where I can use my life as you would have me
                        use it. To rise in such a world as this I shall have to do many things you
                        would not approve. I shall do them. But when I reach the height, I shall
                        justify myself and you. I know how many have started with the same pledge
                        and have been so defiled by what they had to handle that when they arrived
                        they were past cleansing; and they neither kept nor cared to keep their
                        pledge. But I, mother, shall not break this pledge to you."
                
                
                
                    VIII
                    A CALL FROM "THE PARTY"
                    About a month after the Chicago and Fredonia bill was smothered in committee
                        there appeared upon the threshold of my office, in the administration
                        building of the Ramsay Company, a man whom at first glance you might have
                        taken for an exhorter or a collector for some pious enterprise. But if you
                        had made a study of faces, your second glance would have cut through that
                        gloze of oily, apologetic appeal. Behind a thin screen of short gray beard
                        lay a heavy loose mouth, cruel and strong; above it, a great beak and a pair
                        of pale green eyes, intensely alive. They were in startling contrast to the
                        apparent decrepitude of the stooped shambling body, far too small for its
                        covering of decent but somewhat rusty black.
                    "Senator Dunkirk," said I, rising and advanceing to greet
                        the justly feared leader of my party. I knew there was an intimate
                        connection between this visit and the death of his pet project. I  thought it safe to assume that he had somehow
                        stumbled upon Woodruff's tunnelings, and with that well-trained
                        nose of his had smelled out their origin. But I need not have disquieted
                        myself; I did not then know how softly Woodruff moved, sending no warnings
                        ahead, and leaving no trail behind.
                    For several minutes the Senator and I felt for each other in the dark in
                        which we both straightway hid. He was the first to give up and reveal
                        himself in the open. "But I do not wish to waste your time and my
                        own, Mr. Sayler," he said; "I have come to see you about
                        the threatened split in the party. You are, perhaps, surprised that I should
                        have come to you, when you have been so many years out of politics, but I
                        think you will understand, as I explain myself. You know Mr.
                        Roebuck?"
                    "I can't say that I know him," I
                        replied. "He is not an easy man to knowindeed, who is?"
                    "A very able man; in some respects a great man," Dunkirk
                        went on. "But, like so many of our great men of business, he can
                        not appreciate politics,the difficulties of the man in public life  where persuasion and compromise must be used,
                        authority almost never. And, because I have resisted some of his impossible
                        demands, he has declared war on the party. He has raised up in it a faction
                        headed by your old enemy, Dominick. I need not tell you what a brute, what a
                        beast he is, the representative of all that is abhorrent in
                        politics."
                    "A faction headed by Dominick couldn't be very
                        formidable," I suggested.
                    "But Dominick isn't the nominal leader," replied
                        Dunkirk. "Roebuck is far too shrewd for that. No, he has put
                        forward as the decoy my colleague, Croffut,perhaps you know him? If so, I
                        needn't tell you what a vain, shallow, venal fellow he is, with his
                        gift of gab that fools the people."
                    "I know him," said I, in a tone which did not deny the
                        accuracy of Dunkirk's description.
                    "Their object," continued the Senator, "is to buy
                        the control of the party machinery away from those who now manage it in the
                        interests of conservatism and fair dealing. If they succeed, the only
                        business interest that will be considered  in
                        this state will be the Power Trust. And we shall have Dominick, the ignorant
                        brute, lashed on by Roebuck's appetites, until the people will rise
                        in fury and elect the opposition,and you know what it
                        is."
                    "What you say is most interesting," said I, "but I
                        confess I haven't imagination enough to conceive a condition of
                        affairs in which anybody with 'the price'
                        couldn't get what he wanted by paying for it. Perhaps the business
                        interests would gain by a change,the other crowd might be less expensive.
                        Certainly the demands of our party's machine have become
                        intolerable."
                    "It astonishes me, Mr. Sayler, to hear you say that,you, who have
                        been in politics," he protested, taken aback by my hardly disguised
                        attack upon him,for he was in reality "party" and
                        "machine." "Surely, you understand the situation.
                        We must have money to maintain our organization, and to run our campaign.
                        Our workers can't live on air; and, to speak of only one other
                        factor, there are thousands and thousands of our voters, honest fellows,
                        too, who must be paid to come to the polls. They wouldn't  vote against us for any sum; but, unless we
                        pay them for the day lost in the fields, they stay at home. Now, where does
                        our money come from? The big corporations are the only source,who else could
                        or would give largely enough? And it is necessary and just that they should
                        be repaid. But they are no longer content with moderate and prudent rewards
                        for their patriotism. They make bigger and bigger, and more and more
                        unreasonable, demands on us, and so undermine our popularity,for the people
                        can't be blinded wholly to what's going on. And thus, year
                        by year, it takes more and more money to keep us in control."
                    "You seem to have forgotten my point," said I, smiling.
                        "Why should you be kept in control? If you go
                        out, the others come in. They bluster and threaten, in order to get
                        themselves in; but, once they're elected, they discover that it
                        wasn't the people's woes they were shouting about, but
                        their own. And soon they are docile 'conservatives'
                        lapping away at the trough, with nothing dangerous in them but their
                        appetites."
                    "Precisely,their appetites," said he.
                    
                    "A starved man has to practise eating a long, long time before he
                        can equal the performances of a trained glutton," I suggested.
                    His facial response to my good-humored raillery was feeble indeed. And it
                        soon died in a look of depression that made him seem even older and more
                        decrepit than was his wont. "The same story, wherever I
                        go," said he sadly. "The business interests refuse to see
                        their peril. And when I, in my zeal, persist, they,several of them, Sayler,
                        have grinned at me and reminded me that the legislature to be elected next
                        fall will choose my successor! As if my own selfish interests were all I
                        have in mind! I am old and feeble, on the verge of the grave. Do you think,
                        Mr. Sayler, that I would continue in public life if it were not for what I
                        conceive to be my duty to my party? I have toiled too long for it"
                    "Your record speaks for itself, Senator," I put in,
                        politely but pointedly.
                    "You are very discouraging, Sayler," he said forlornly.
                        "But I refuse to be discouraged. The party needs you, and I have
                        come to do my duty, and I won't leave without doing it."
                    
                    "I have nothing to do with the company's political
                        contributions," said I. "You will have to see Mr. Ramsay,
                        as usual."
                    He waved his hand. "Let me explain, please. Roover is about to
                        resign,as you probably know, he's been chairman of the
                        party's state committee for seventeen years. I've come to
                        ask you to take his place."
                    It was impossible wholly to hide my amazement, my stupefaction. Had he had
                        the shadowiest suspicion of my plans, of the true inwardness of the
                        Croffut-Dominick movement, he would as readily have offered me his own head.
                        In fact, he was offering me his own head; for, with the money and the other
                        resources at my command, I needed only this place of official executive of
                        the party to make me master. And here he was, giving me the place, under the
                        delusion that he could use me as he had been using Roover.
                    He must have misread my expression, for he went on: "Don't
                        refuse on impulse, Sayler. I and the others will do everything to make your
                        duties as light as possible."
                    "I should not be content to be a mere figurehead,  as Roover has been," I warned him.
                        He had come, in his desperation, to try to get the man who combined the
                        advantages of being, as he supposed, Dominick's enemy and a member
                        of one of the state's financially influential families. He had come
                        to cozen me into letting him use me in return for a mockery of an honor. And
                        I was simply tumbling him, or, rather, permitting him to tumble himself,
                        into the pit he had dug for me. Still, I felt that I owed it to my
                        selfrespect to give him a chance. "If I take the place, I shall
                        fill it to the best of my ability."
                    "Certainly, certainly,we want your ability." Behind his
                        bland, cordial mask I saw the spider eyes gleaming and the spider claws
                        twitching as he felt his net quiver under hovering wings. "We want
                        youwe need you, Sayler. We expect you to do your best."
                    My best! What would my "best" have been, had I been only
                        what he thought,dependent upon him for supplies, surrounded by his
                        lieutenants, hearing nothing but what he chose to tell me, and able to
                        execute only such orders as he gave or approved!
                    
                    "I am sure we can count on you," he urged.
                    "I will try it," said I, after a further hesitation that
                        was not altogether show.
                    He did not linger,he wished to give me no chance to change my mind and fly
                        his net. I was soon alone, staring dazedly at my windfall and wondering if
                        fortune would ever give me anything without attaching to it that which would
                        make me doubt whether my gift had more of bitter or more of sweet in it.
                    Dunkirk announced the selection of a new chairman that very afternoon,as a
                        forecast, of course, for there was the formality of my
                        "election" by the sixty-three members of the state
                        committee to be gone through. His proposition was well received. The
                        old-line politicians remembered my father; the Reformers recalled my fight
                        against Dominick; the business men liked my connection with the Ramsay
                        Company, assuring stability and regard for "conservatism";
                        the "boys" were glad because I had a rich wife and a rich
                        brother-in-law. The "boys" always cheer when a man with
                        money develops political aspirations.
                    
                    I did not see Woodruff until I went down to the capital to begin my
                        initiation. I came upon him there, in the lobby of the Capital City Hotel.
                        As we talked for a moment like barely-acquainted strangers, saying nothing
                        that might not have been repeated broadcast, his look was asking:
                        "How did you manage to trap Dunkirk into doing it?" I
                        never told him the secret, and so never tore out the foundation of his
                        belief in me as a political wizard. It is by such judicious use of their few
                        strokes of good luck that successful men get their glamour of the
                        superhuman. In the eyes of the average man, who is lazy or intermittent, the
                        result of plain, incessant, unintermittent work is amazing enough. All that
                        is needed to make him cry, "Genius!" is a little luck
                        adroitly exploited.
                    I left Woodruff, to join Dunkirk. "Who is that chap over
                        there,Doctor Woodruff?" I asked him.
                    "Woodruff?" replied the Senator. "Oh, a lobbyist.
                        He does a good deal for Roebuck, I believe. An honest fellow,for that
                        kind,they tell me. It's always well to be civil to them."
                    
                    Dunkirk's "initiation" of me into the duties of my
                        office wiped away my last lingering sense of double, or, at least, doubtful,
                        dealing. He told me nothing that was not calculated to mislead me. And he
                        was so glib and so frank and so sympathetic that, had I not known the whole
                        machine from the inside, I should have been his dupe.
                    It is not pleasant to suspect that, in some particular instance, one of your
                        fellow men takes you for a simple-minded fool. To know you are being so
                        regarded, not in one instance, but in general, is in the highest degree
                        exasperating, no matter how well your vanity is under control.
                    Perhaps I should not have been able to play my part and deceive my deceiver
                        had I been steadily at headquarters. As it was, I went there little and then
                        gave no orders, apparently contenting myself with the credit for what other
                        men were doing in my name. In fact, so obvious did I make my neglect as
                        chairman that the party press commented on it and covertly criticized me.
                        Dunkirk mildly reproached me for lack of interest. He did not knowindeed, he
                        never knewthat his chief lieutenant, Thurston, in charge at head-quarters,
                             had gone over to "the
                        enemy," and was Woodruff's right-hand man. And it is not
                        necessary for me to say where Woodruff got the orders he transmitted to
                        Thurston.
                    My excuse for keeping aloof was that I was about to be transformed into a man
                        of family. As I was fond of children I had looked forward to this with more
                        eagerness than I ventured to show to my wife. She might not have liked it,
                        eager though she was also. As soon as she knew that her longings were to be
                        satisfied, she entered upon a course of preparation so elaborate that I was
                        secretly much amused, though I thoroughly approved and encouraged her. Every
                        moment of her days was laid out in some duty imposed upon her by the regimen
                        she had arranged after a study of all that science says on the subject.
                    As perfect tranquillity was a fundamental of the rgime, she
                        permitted nothing to ruffle her. But Ed more than made up for her calm. Two
                        weeks before the event, she forbade him to enter her presence"or
                        any part of the grounds where I'm likely to see you," said
                        she. "The very sight of you, looking so flustered, unnerves
                        me."
                    
                    While he and I were waiting in the sitting-room for the news, he turned his
                        heart inside out.
                    "I want to tell you, Harvey," said he, "that
                        theboy or girlwhichever it isis to be my heir."
                    "I shan't hold you to that," I replied with a
                        laugh.
                    "No,I'll never marry," he went on. "There
                        was anan angel. You know the Shaker settlement?well, out there."
                    I looked at him in wonder. If ever there was a man who seemed unromantic, it
                        was he, heavy and prosaic and so shy that he was visibly agitated even in
                        bowing to a woman acquaintance.
                    "I met her," he was saying, "when I was driving
                        that way,the horse ran, I was thrown out, and her parents had to take me in
                        and let her nurse me. You've seen her face,or faces like it. Most
                        of those Madonnas over on the other side in all the galleries suggest her.
                        Well,her parents were furious,wouldn't hear of it,you know Shakers
                        think marriage and love and all those things are wicked. And she thought so,
                        too. How she used to suffer! It wore her to  a
                        shadow. She wouldn't marry me,wouldn't let me so much as
                        touch her hand. But we used to meet andthen she caught a coldwaiting hours
                        for me, one winter night, when there'd been a misunderstanding
                        about the placeI was in one place, she in another. And the cold,you see, she
                        couldn't fight against it. Andandthere won't be another,
                        Harvey. All women are sacred to me for her sake, but I couldn't any
                        more marry than I couldcould stop feeling her sitting beside me, just a
                        little way off, wrapped in her drab shawl, with her facelike a glimpse
                        through the gates of Heaven."
                    Within me up-started the memories that I kept battened down.
                    "Your children are mine, too, Harvey," he ended.
                    I took from Carlotta's work-basket an unfinished bit of baby
                        clothing. I went to him and held it up and pointed to the monogram she had
                        embroidered on it.
                    "E. R. S.," he read aloud. Then he looked at me with a
                        queer expression beginning to form in his eyes.
                    
                    "Edward Ramsay Sayler, if it's a boy," said I.
                        "Edwina Ramsay Sayler, if it's a girl."
                    He snatched the bit of linen from me and buried his face in it.
                    The baby was a boy,fortunately, for I don't admire the name Edwina,
                        and I shouldn't have liked to handicap a child with it. Carlotta
                        and Ed were delighted, but I felt a momentary keen disappointment. I had
                        wanted a girl. Girls never leave their parents completely, as boys do. Also
                        I should rather have looked forward to my child's having a
                        sheltered life, one in which the fine and beautiful ideals do not have to be
                        molded into the gross, ugly forms of the practical. I may say, in passing,
                        that I deplore the entrance of women into the world of struggle. Women are
                        the natural and only custodians of the ideals. We men are compelled to
                        wander, often to wander far, from the ideal. Unless our women remain aloof
                        from action, how are the ideals to be preserved? Man for action; woman to
                        purify man, when he returns stained with the blood and sin of battle.
                    Butwith the birth of the first child I began to appreciate how profoundly
                        right my mother  had been about marriage and
                        its source of happiness. There are other flowers than the rose,other
                        flowers, and beautiful, the more beautiful for its absence.
                
                
                
                    IX
                    TO THE SEATS OF THE MIGHTY
                    We, our party, carried the state, as usual. Our legislative majority was
                        increased by eleven, to thirty-seven on joint ballot. It was certain that
                        Dunkirk's successor would be of the same political faith; but would
                        he be Dunkirk? At first that venerable custodian of the plum tree
                        hadn't a doubt. He had come to look on it as his personal property.
                        But, after he had talked to legislatorselect from various parts of the
                        state, he became uneasy. He found that the party's members were
                        dangerously evenly divided between himself and the
                        "Dominick-Croffut" faction. And soon he was at me to
                        declare for him.
                    I evaded as long as I could,which did not decrease his nervousness. When he
                        put it to me point-blank, I said: "I can't do it, Senator.
                        I will not mix in quarrels within the party."
                    "But they are saying you are against me," he pleaded.
                    
                    "And your people are saying I am for you," I retorted.
                    "But surely you are not against me and for
                        Schoolcraft? What has he done for you?"
                    "And what have you done for me?" I
                        replied,a mere interrogation, without any feeling in it. "Tell me.
                        I try to pay my debts."
                    His eyes shifted. "Nothing, Sayler, nothing," he said.
                        "I didn't mean to insinuate that you owed me anything.
                        Still, I thoughtyou wouldn't have been state chairman,
                        except"
                    As he halted, I said, "Except that you needed me. And you will
                        recall that I took it only on condition that I should be free."
                    "Then you are opposed to me," he said. "Nobody can
                        be on the fence in this fight."
                    "I do not think you can be elected," I replied.
                    As he sat silent, the puffs under his eyes swelled into bags and the pallor
                        of his skin changed to the gray which makes the face look as if a haze or a
                        cloud lay upon it. I pitied him so profoundly that, had I ventured to speak,
                        I should have uttered impulsive generosities that would have cost me dear.
                        How rarely are our  impulses of generosity
                        anything but impulses to folly, injustice, and wrong!
                    "We shall see," was all he said, and he rose and shambled
                        away.
                    They told me he made a pitiful sight, wheedling and whining among the
                        legislators. But he degraded himself to some purpose. He succeeded in
                        rallying round him enough members to deadlock the party caucus for a
                        month,members from the purely rural districts, where the sentiment of
                        loyalty is strongest, where his piety and unselfish devotion to the party
                        were believed in, and his significance as a "statesman." I
                        let this deadlock continueforty-one for Dunkirk, fortyone for
                        Schoolcraftuntil I felt that the party throughout the state was heartily
                        sick of the struggle. Then Woodruff bought, at twelve thousand dollars
                        apiece, two Dunkirk men to vote to transfer the contest to the floor of a
                        joint session of the two houses.
                    After four days of balloting there, seven Dominick-Croffut men voted for memy
                        first appearance as a candidate. On the seventy-seventh ballot Schoolcraft
                        withdrew, and all the Dominick-Croffut  men
                        voted for me. On the seventy-ninth ballot I got, in addition, two opposition
                        votes Woodruff had bought for me at eight hundred dollars apiece. The ballot
                        was: Dunkirk, forty-one; Grassmere, (who was receiving the
                        opposition's complimentary vote) thirty-six; Sayler, forty-three. I
                        was a Senator of the United States.
                    There was a wild scene. Threats, insults, blows even, were exchanged. And
                        down at the Capital City Hotel Dunkirk crawled upon a table and denounced me
                        as an infamous ingrate, a traitor, a serpent he had warmed in his bosom. But
                        the people of the state accepted it as natural and satisfactory that
                        "the vigorous and fearless young chairman of the party's
                        state committee" should be agreed on as a compromise. An hour after
                        that last ballot, he hadn't a friend left except some galling
                        sympathizers from whom he hid himself. Those who had been his firmest
                        supporters were paying court to the new custodian of the plum tree.
                    The governor was mine, and the legislature. Mine was the Federal patronage,
                        alsoall of it,  if I chose, for Croffut was my
                        dependent, though he did not realize it; mine also were the indefinitely
                        vast resources of the members of my combine. Without my consent no man could
                        get office anywhere in my state, from governorship and judgeship down as far
                        as I cared to reach. Subject only to the check of public sentiment,so easily
                        defeated if it be not defied,I was master of the making and execution of
                        laws. Why? Not because I was leader of the dominant party. Not because I was
                        a Senator of the United States. Solely because I controlled the sources of
                        the money that maintained the political machinery of both parties. The hand
                        that holds the purse strings is the hand that rules,if it knows how to rule;
                        for rule is power plus ability.
                    I was not master because I had the plum tree. I had the plum tree because I
                        was master.
                    The legislature attended to such of the demands of my combine and such of the
                        demands of the public as I thought it expedient to grant, and then
                        adjourned. Woodruff asked a three months' leave. I did not hear
                        from or of him until midsummer,  when he sent
                        me a cablegram from London. He was in a hospital there, out of money and out
                        of health. I cabled him a thousand dollars and asked him to come home as
                        soon as he could. It was my first personal experience with that far from
                        uncommon American type, the periodic drunkard. I had to cable him money
                        three times before he started.
                    When he came to me at Washington, in December, he looked just as before,calm,
                        robust, cool, cynical, and dressed in the very extreme of the extreme
                        fashion. I received him as if nothing had happened. It was not until the
                        current of mutual liking was again flowing freely between us that I said:
                        "Doc, may I impose on your friendship to the extent of an intrusion
                        into your private affairs?"
                    He started, and gave me a quick look, his color mounting.
                        "Yes," he said after a moment.
                    "When I heard from you," I went on, "I made some
                        inquiries. I owe you no apology. You had given me a shock,one of the
                        severest of my life. But they told me that you never letthatthat peculiarity
                        of yours interfere with business."
                    
                    His head was hanging. "I always go away," he said.
                        "Nobody that knows me ever sees me whenat that time."
                    I laid my hand on his arm. "Doc, why do you dothat sort of
                        thing?"
                    The scar came up into his face to put agony into the reckless despair that
                        looked from his eyes. For an instant I stood on the threshold of his Chamber of Remorse and Vain Regret,and well I knew
                        where I was. "Why not?" he asked bitterly.
                        "There's always asort of horrorinside me. And it grows
                        until I can't bear it. And thenI drown itwhy shouldn't
                        I?"
                    "That's very stupid for a man of your brains,"
                        said I. "There's nothingnothing in the world, except
                        deaththat can not be wiped out or set right. Play the game, Doc. Play it
                        with me for five years. Play it for all there is in it. Thengo back, if you
                        want to."
                    He thought a long time, and I did not try to hurry him. At length he said, in
                        his old off-hand manner: "Well, I'll go you, Senator;
                        I'll not touch a drop."
                    And he didn't. Whenever I thought I saw  signs of the savage internal battle against the weakness, I gave him
                        something important and absorbing to do, and I kept him busy until I knew
                        the temptation had lost its power for the time.
                    This is the proper place to put it on the record that he was the most
                        scrupulously honest man I have ever known. He dealt with the shadiest and
                        least scrupulous of menthose who train their consciences to be the eager
                        servants of their appetites; he handled hundreds of thousands of dollars,
                        millions, first and last, all of it money for which he could never have been
                        forced to account. He has had at one time as much as half a million dollars
                        in checks payable to bearer. I am not confiding by nature or training, but I
                        am confident that he kept not a penny for himself beyond his salary and his
                        fixed commission. I put his salary at the outset, at ten thousand a year;
                        afterward, at fifteen; finally, at twenty. His commissions, perhaps, doubled
                        it.
                    There are many kinds of honesty nowadays. There is "corporate
                        honesty," not unlike that proverbial "honor among
                        thieves," which secures a fair or fairly fair division of the
                        spoils. Then  there is "personal
                        honesty," which subdivides into three kindslegal, moral, and
                        instinctive. Legal honesty needs no definition. Moral honesty defies
                        definitionhow untangle its intertwinings of motives of fear, pride,
                        insufficient temptation, sacrifice of the smaller chance in the hope of a
                        larger? Finally, there is instinctive honestythe rarest, the only bed-rock,
                        unassailable kind. Give me the man who is honest simply because it never
                        occurs to him, and never could occur to him, to be anything else. That is
                        Woodruff.
                    There is, to be sure, another kind of instinctively honest manhe who
                        disregards loyalty as well as self-interest in his uprightness. But there
                        are so few of these in practical life that they may be disregarded.
                    Perhaps I should say something here as to the finances of my combine, though
                        it was managed in the main precisely like all these political-commercial
                        machines that control both parties in all the states, except a few in the
                        South.
                    My assessments upon the various members of my combine were sent, for several
                        years, to me, afterward to Woodruff directly, in one thousand,  five thousand, and ten thousand dollar
                        checks, sometimes by mail, and at other times by express or messenger.
                    These checks were always payable to bearer; and I made through Woodruff, for
                        I kept to the far background in all my combine's affairs, an
                        arrangement with several large banks in different parts of the state,
                        including one at the capital, that these checks were to be cashed without
                        question, no matter who presented them, provided there was a certain
                        flourish under the line where the amount was written in figures. Sometimes
                        these checks were signed by the corporation, and sometimes they were the
                        personal checks of the president or some other high official. Often the
                        signature was that of a person wholly disconnected, so far as the public
                        knew. Once, I remember, Roebuck sent me a thousand dollar check signed by a
                        distinguished Chicago lawyer who was just then counsel to his opponent in a
                        case involving millions, a case which Roebuck afterward won!
                    Who presented these checks? I could more easily say who did not.
                    From the very beginning of my control I kept my promise to reduce the cost of
                        the political business to my clients. When I got the machine thoroughly in
                        hand, I saw I could make it cost them less than a third of what they had
                        been paying, on the average, for ten years. I cut off, almost at a stroke, a
                        horde of lobbyists, lawyers, threateners without influence, and hangers-on
                        of various kinds. I reduced the payments for legislation to a system,
                        instead of the shameless, scandal-creating and wasteful auctioneering that
                        had been going on for years.
                    
                    In fact, so cheaply did I run the machine that I saw it would be most
                        imprudent to let my clients have the full benefit. Cheapness would have made
                        them uncontrollably greedy and exacting, and would have given them a wholly
                        false idea of my value as soon as it had slipped their short memories how
                        dearly they used to pay.
                    So I continued to make heavy assessments, and put by the surplus in a reserve
                        fund for emergencies. I thought, for example, that I might some day have
                        trouble with one or more members of my combine; my reserve would supply  me with the munitions for forcing insurgents
                        to return to their agreements.
                    This fund was in no sense part of my private fortune. Nowhere else, I think,
                        do the eccentricities of conscience show themselves more interestingly than
                        in the various attitudes of the various political leaders toward the large
                        sums which the exigencies of commercialized politics place absolutely and
                        secretly under their control. I have no criticism for any of these
                        attitudes.
                    I have lived long enough and practically enough to learn not to criticize the
                        morals of men, any more than I criticize their facial contour or their
                        physical build. "As many men, so many minds,"and morals.
                        Wrong, for practical purposes, is that which a man can not cajole or compel
                        his conscience to approve.
                    It so happened that I had a sense that to use my assessments for my private
                        financial profits would be wrong. Therefore, my private fortune has been
                        wholly the result of the opportunities which came through my intimacy with
                        Roebuck and such others of the members of my combine as were personally
                        agreeable,or, perhaps it  would be more
                        accurate to say, not disagreeable, for, in the circumstances, I naturally
                        saw a side of those men which a friend must never see in a friend. I could
                        not help having toward most of these distinguished clients of mine much the
                        feeling his lawyer has for the guilty criminal he is defending.
                
                
                
                    X
                    THE FACE IN THE CROWD
                    Except the time given to the children,there were presently three,my life, in
                        all its thoughts and associations, was now politics: at Washington, from
                        December until Congress adjourned, chiefly national politics, the long and
                        elaborate arrangements preliminary to the campaign for the conquest of the
                        national fields; at home, chiefly state politics,strengthening my hold upon
                        the combine, strengthening my hold upon the two political machines. As the
                        days and the weeks, the months and the years, rushed by, as the interval
                        between breakfast and bedtime, between Sunday and Sunday, between election
                        day and election day again, grew shorter and shorter, I played the game more
                        and more furiously. What I won, once it was mine, seemed worthless in
                        itself, and worth while only if I could gain the next point; and, when that
                        was gained, the same story was repeated. Whenever I paused to reflect,  it was to throttle reflection half-born, and
                        hasten on again.
                    "A silly business, this living, isn't it?" said
                        Woodruff to me.
                    "Yes,but" replied I. "You remember the hare and
                        the hatter in Alice in Wonderland.
                        'Why?' said the hare. 'Why not?' said
                        the hatter. A sensible man does not interrogate life; he lives it."
                    "H'm," retorted Woodruff.
                    And we went on with the game,shuffling, dealing, staking. But more and more
                        frequently there came hours, when, against my will, I would pause, drop my
                        cards, watch the others; and I would wonder at them, and at myself, the
                        maddest of these madmen,and the saddest, because I had moments in which I
                        was conscious of my own derangement.
                    I have often thought on the cause of this dissatisfaction which has never
                        ceased to gird me, and which I have learned girds all men of intelligence
                        who lead an active life. I think it is that such men are like a civilized
                        man who has to live among a savage tribe. To keep alive, to have influence,
                             he must pretend to accept the savage
                        point of view, must pretend to disregard his own knowledge and intelligent
                        methods, must play the game of life with the crude, clumsy counters of caste
                        and custom and creed and thought which the savages regard as fit and proper.
                        Intelligent men of action do see as clearly as the philosophers; but they
                        have to pretend to adapt their mental vision to that of the mass of their
                        fellow men or, like the philosophers, they would lead lives of profitless
                        inaction, enunciating truths which are of no value to mankind until it
                        rediscovers them for itself. No man of trained reasoning power could fail to
                        see that the Golden Rule is not a piece of visionary altruism, but a sound
                        principle of practical self-interest. Or, could anything be clearer, to one
                        who takes the trouble really to think about it, than that he who advances
                        himself at the expense of his fellow men does not advance, but sinks down
                        into the class of murderers for gain, thieves, and all those who seek to
                        advance themselves by injustice? Yet, so feeble is man's reason, so
                        near to the brute is he, so under the rule of brute appetites, that he can
                             not think beyond the immediate apparent
                        good, beyond to-day's meal.
                    I once said to Scarborough: "Politics is the science and art of
                        fooling the people."
                    "That is true, as far as it goes," he said. "If
                        that were all, justice, which is only another name for common sense, would
                        soon be established. But, unfortunately, politics is the art of playing upon
                        cupidity, the art of fooling the people into thinking they are helping to
                        despoil the other fellow and will get a share of the swag."
                    And he was right. It is by subtle appeal to the secret and shamefaced, but
                        controlling, appetites of men that the clever manipulate them. To get a man
                        to vote for the right you must show him that he is voting for the personally
                        profitable. And very slow he is to believe that what is right can be
                        practically profitable. Have not the preachers been preaching the reverse
                        all these years; have they not been insisting that to do right means
                        treasure in Heaven only?
                    It was in my second term as Senator, toward the middle of it. I was speaking,
                        one afternoon,  in defense of a measure for
                        the big contributors, which the party was forcing through the Senate in face
                        of fire from the whole country. Personally, I did not approve the measure.
                        It was a frontal attack upon public opinion, and frontal attacks are as
                        unwise and as unnecessary in politics as in war. But the party leaders in
                        the nation insisted, and, as the move would weaken their hold upon the party
                        and so improve my own chances, I was not deeply aggrieved that my advice had
                        been rejected. Toward the end of my speech, aroused by applause from the
                        visitors' gallery, I forgot myself and began to look up there as I
                        talked, instead of addressing myself to my fellow Senators. The eyes of a
                        speaker always wander over his audience in search of eyes that respond. My
                        glance wandered, unconsciously, until it found an answering glance that
                        fixed it.
                    This answering glance was not responsive, nor even approving. It was the
                        reverse,and, in spite of me, it held me. At first it was just a pair of
                        eyes, in the shadow of the brim of a woman's hat, the rest of the
                        face, the rest of the woman, hid by those in front and on either side. There
                             was a movement among them, and the whole
                        face appeared,and I stopped short in my speech. I saw only the face, really
                        only the mouth and the eyes,the lips and the eyes of Elizabeth Crosby,an
                        expression of pain, and of pity.
                    I drank from the glass of water on my desk, and went on. When I ventured to
                        look up there again, the face was gone. Had I seen or imagined? Was it she
                        or was it only memory suddenly awakening and silhouetting her upon that
                        background of massed humanity? I tried to convince myself that I had only
                        imagined, but I knew that I had seen.
                    Within meand, I suppose, within every one elsethere is a dual personality:
                        not a good and a bad, as is so often shallowly said; but one that does, and
                        another that watches. The doer seems to me to be myself; the watcher, he who
                        stands, like an idler at the rail of a bridge, carelessly, even
                        indifferently, observing the tide of my thought and action that flows
                        beneath,who is he? I do not know. But I do know that I have no control over
                        him,over his cynical smile, or his lip curling in good-natured contempt of
                        me, or his shrug  at self-excuse, or his moods
                        when he stares down at the fretting stream with a look of weariness so
                        profound that it is tragic. It was he who was more interested in the
                        thoughts,the passion, the protest, the defiance, and the dread,which the
                        sight of that face set to boiling within me. Sometimes he smiled cynically
                        at the turmoil, and at other times he watched it with what seemed to me
                        bitter disgust and disappointment and regret.
                    While this tempest was struggling to boil over into action, Carlotta
                        appeared. She had never stayed long at Washington after the first winter;
                        she preferred, for the children and perhaps for herself, the quiet and the
                        greater simplicity of Fredonia. But"I got to thinking about
                        it," said she, "and it seemed to me a bad idea for a man
                        to be separated so long from his wife and childrenand home
                        influences."
                    That last phrase was accompanied by one of her queer shrewd looks.
                    "Your idea is not without merit," replied I judicially.
                    "What are you smiling at?" she demanded sharply.
                    
                    
                        I SAW ONLY THE LIPS AND EYES OF ELIZABETH CROSBY p. 141
                        
                    
                    
                    "If it was a smile," said I, "it was at
                        myself."
                    "No, you were laughing at me. You think I am jealous."
                    "Of what? Of whom?"
                    She looked fixedly at me and finally said: "I want to tell you two
                        things about myself and you. The first is that I am afraid of you."
                    "Why?" said I.
                    "I don't know," she answered.
                    "And the second confession?"
                    "That I never trust you."
                    "Why?"
                    "I don't know."
                    "Yet you are always telling me I am cold."
                    She laughed shortly. "So is a stick of dynamite," said she.
                    She stayed on at Washington.
                
                
                
                    XI
                    BURBANK
                    It was through Carlotta that I came to know Burbank well.
                    He was in the House, representing the easternmost district of our state. I
                        had disliked him when we were boys in the state assembly together, and, when
                        I met him again in Washington, he seemed to me to have all his faults of
                        fifteen years before aggravated by persistence in them. Finally, I needed
                        his place in Congress for a useful lieutenant of Woodruff's and
                        ordered him beaten for the renomination. He made a bitter fight against
                        decapitation, and, as he was popular with the people of his district, we had
                        some difficulty in defeating him. But when he was beaten, he was of course
                        helpless and hopelessly discredited,the people soon forget a fallen
                        politician. He "took off his coat" and worked hard and
                        well for the election of the man who had euchred him out of the nomination.
                        When he returned to  Washington to finish his
                        term, he began a double, desperate assault upon my friendship. The direct
                        assault was unsuccessful,I understood it, and I was in no need of
                        lieutenants. More than I could easily take care of were already striving to
                        serve me, scores of the brightest, most ambitious young men of the state
                        eager to do my bidding, whatever it might be, in the hope that in return I
                        would "take care of" them, would admit them to the coveted
                        inclosure round the plum tree. The plum tree! Is there any kind of fruit
                        which gladdens the eyes of ambitious man, that does not glisten upon some
                        one of its many boughs, heavyladen with corporate and public honors and
                        wealth?
                    Burbank's indirect attack, through his wife and Carlotta, fared
                        better.
                    The first of it I distinctly recall was after a children's party at
                        our house. Carlotta singled out Mrs. Burbank for enthusiastic commendation.
                        "The other women sent nurses with their children," said
                        she, "but Mrs. Burbank came herself. She was so sweet in
                        apologizing for coming. She said she hadn't any nurse, and that she
                        was so  timid about her children that she
                        never could bring herself to trust them to nurses. And really, Harvey, you
                        don't know how nice she was all the afternoon. She's the
                        kind of mother I approve of, the kind I try to be. Don't you admire
                        her?"
                    "I don't know her," said I. "The only
                        time I met her she struck me as beingwell, rather silent."
                    "That's it," she exclaimed triumphantly.
                        "She doesn't care a rap for men. She's absorbed
                        in her children and her husband." Then, after a pause, she added:
                        "Well, she's welcome to him. I can't see what she
                        finds to care for."
                    "Why?" said I.
                    "Oh, he's distinguished-looking, and polite, offensively
                        polite to womenhe doesn't understand them at allthinks they like
                        deference and flattery, the low-grade molasses kind of flattery. He has a
                        very nice smile. But he's so stilted and tiresome, always
                        serious,and such a pose! It's what I call the presidential pose. No
                        doubt he'll be President some day."
                    "Why?" said I. It is amusing to watch a woman fumble about
                        for reasons for her intuitions.
                    
                    Carlotta did uncommonly well. "Oh, I don't know.
                        He's the sort of high-average American that the people go crazy
                        about. Hehelooks like a President, that sort
                        ofsolemnno-sense-of-humor, Sunday look,you know what I
                        mean. Anyhow, he's going to be President."
                    I thought not. A few days later, while what Carlotta had said was fresh in my
                        mind, he overtook me walking to the capitol. As we went on together, I was
                        smiling to myself. He certainly did look and talk like a President. He was
                        of the average height, of the average build, and of a sort of average facial
                        mold; he had hair that was a compromise among the average shades of brown,
                        gray, and black, with a bald spot just where most men have it.
                    His poseI saw that Carlotta was shrewdly right. He was acutely
                        self-conscious, and was acting his pose every instant. He had selected it
                        early in life; he would wear it, even in his night-shirt, until death. He
                        said nothing brilliant, but neither did he say anything that would not have
                        been generally regarded as sound and sensible. His impressive manner of
                        delivering his words  made one overvalue the
                        freight they carried. But I soon found, for I studied him with increasing
                        interest, thanks to my new point of view upon him,I soon found that he had
                        one quality the reverse of commonplace. He had magnetism.
                    Whenever a new candidate was proposed for Mazarin's service, he used
                        to ask, first of all, "Has he luck?" My first question has
                        been, "Has he magnetism?" and I think mine is the better
                        measure. Such of one's luck as is not the blundering blindness of
                        one's opponents is usually the result of one's magnetism.
                        However, it is about the most dangerous of the free gifts of nature,which
                        are all dangerous. Burbank's merit lay in his discreet use of it.
                        It compelled men to center upon him; he turned this to his advantage by
                        making them feel, not how he shone, but how they shone. They went away
                        liking him because they had new reasons for being in love with themselves.
                    I found only two serious weaknesses. The first was that he lacked the moral
                        courage boldly to do either right or wrong. That explained why, in spite of
                        his talents for impressing people both 
                        privately and from the platform, he was at the end of his political career.
                        The second weakness was that he was ashamed of his very obscure and humble
                        origin. He knew that his being "wholly self-made" was a
                        matchless political asset, and he used it accordingly. But he looked on it
                        some-what as the beggar looks on the deformity he exhibits to get alms.
                    Neither weakness made him less valuable to my purpose,the first one, if
                        anything, increased his value. I wanted an instrument that was capable, but
                        strong only when I used it.
                    I wanted a man suitable for development first into governor of my state, and
                        then into a President. I could not have got the presidency for myself, but
                        neither did I want it. My longings were all for power,the reality, not the
                        shadow. In a republic the man who has the real power must be out of view. If
                        he is within view, a million hands stretch to drag him from the throne. He
                            must be out of view, putting forward his puppets and
                        changing them when the people grow bored or angry with them. And the
                        Presidentin all important matters he must obey his party,  which is, after all, simply the
                        "interests" that finance it; in unimportant matters, his
                        so-called power is whittled down by the party's leaders and
                        workers, whose requirements may not be disregarded. He shakes the plum tree,
                        but he does it under orders; others gather the fruit, and he gets only the
                        exercise and the "honor."
                    I had no yearning for puppetship, however exalted the title or sonorous the
                        fame; but to be the power that selects the king-puppet of the political
                        puppet-hierarchy, to be the power that selects and rules him,that was the
                        logical development of my career.
                    In Burbank I thought I had found a man worthy to wear the puppet robes,one
                        who would glory in them. He, like most of the other ambitious men I have
                        known, cared little who was behind the throne, provided he himself was
                        seated upon it, the crown on his head and the crowds tossing the hats that
                        shelter their dim-thinking brains. Also, in addition to magnetism and
                        presence, he had dexterity and distinction and as much docility as can be
                        expected in a man big enough to use for important work.
                    
                    In September I gave him our party nomination for governor. In our one-sided
                        state that meant his election.
                    As I had put him into the governorship not so much for use there as for use
                        thereafter, it was necessary to protect him from my combine, which had
                        destroyed his two immediate predecessors by over-use,they had become so
                        unpopular that their political careers ended with their terms. Protect him I
                        must, though the task would be neither easy nor pleasant. It involved a
                        collision with my clients,a square test of strength between us. What was to
                        me far more repellent, it involved my personally taking a hand in that part
                        of my political work which I had hitherto left to Woodruff and his
                        lieutenants.
                    One does not in person chase and catch and kill and dress and serve the
                        chicken he has for dinner; he orders chicken, and hears and thinks no more
                        about it until it is served. Thus, all the highly disagreeable part of my
                        political work was done by others; Woodruff, admirably capable and most
                        careful to spare my feelings, received the demands of my clients from their
                        lawyers and transmitted  them to the party
                        leaders in the legislature with the instructions how the machinery was to be
                        used in making them into law. As I was financing the machines of both
                        parties, his task was not difficult, though delicate.
                    But now that I began to look over Woodruff's legislative program in
                        advance, I was amazed at the rapacity of my clients, rapacious though I knew
                        them to be. I had been thinking that the independent newspapersthere were a
                        few such, but of small circulation and influencewere malignant in their
                        attacks upon my "friends." In fact, as I soon saw, they
                        had told only a small part of the truth. They had not found out the worst
                        things that were done; nor had they grasped how little the legislature and
                        the governor were doing other than the business of the big corporations,
                        most of it of doubtful public benefit, to speak temperately. An
                        hour's study of the facts and I realized as never before why we are
                        so rapidly developing a breed of multi-millionaires in this country with all
                        the opportunities to wealth in their hands. I had only to remember that the
                        system which ruled my own state was in  full
                        blast in every one of the states of the Union. Everywhere, no sooner do the
                        people open or propose to open a new road into a source of wealth, than men
                        like these clients of mine hurry to the politicians and buy the rights to
                        set up toll-gates and to fix their own schedule of tolls.
                    However, the time had now come when I must assert myself. I made no radical
                        changes in that first program of Burbank's term. I contented myself
                        with cutting off the worst items, those it would have ruined Burbank to
                        indorse. My clients were soon grumbling, but Woodruff handled them well,
                        placating them with excuses that soothed their annoyance to discontented
                        silence. So ably did he manage it that not until Burbank's third
                        year did they begin to come directly to me and complain of the way they were
                        being "thrown down" at the capitol.
                    Roebuck, knowning me most intimately and feeling that he was my author and
                        protector, was frankly insistent. "We got almost nothing at the
                        last session," he protested, "and this winterWoodruff
                        tells me we may not get the only thing we're asking."
                    
                    I was ready for him, as I was for each of the ten. I took out the list of
                        measures passed or killed at the last session in the interest of the Power
                        Trust. It contained seventy-eight items, thirty-four of them passed. I
                        handed it to him.
                    "Yes,a few things," he admitted, "but all
                        trifles!"
                    "That little amendment to the Waterways law must alone have netted
                        you three or four millions already."
                    "Nothing like that. Nothing like that."
                    "I can organize a company within twenty-four hours that will pay you
                        four millions in cash for the right, and stock besides."
                    He did not take up my offer.
                    "You have already had thirteen matters attended to this
                        winter," I pursued. "The one that can't be
                        doneReally, Mr. Roebuck, the whole state knows that the trustees of the
                        Waukeegan Christian University are your dummies. It would be insanity for
                        the party to turn over a hundred thousand acres of valuable public land
                        gratis to them, so that they can presently sell it to you for a
                        song."
                    
                    He reddened. "Newspaper scandal!" he blustered, but changed
                        the subject as soon as he had shown me and re-shown himself that his motives
                        were pure.
                    I saw that Burbank's last winter was to be crucial. My clients were
                        clamorous, and were hinting at all sorts of dire doings if they were not
                        treated better. Roebuck was questioning, in the most malignantly friendly
                        manner, "whether, after all, Harvey, the combine isn't a
                        mistake, and the old way wasn't the best." On the other
                        hand Burbank was becoming restless. He had so cleverly taken advantage of
                        the chances to do popular things, which I had either made for him or pointed
                        out to him, that he had become something of a national figure. When he got
                        eightyone votes for the presidential nomination in our party's
                        national convention his brain was dizzied. Now he was in a tremor lest my
                        clients should demand of him things that would diminish or destroy this
                        sapling popularity which, in his dreams, he already saw grown into a mighty
                        tree obscuring the national heavens.
                    I gave many and many an hour to anxious 
                        thought and careful planning that summer and fall. It was only a few days
                        before Doc Woodruff appeared at Fredonia with the winter's
                        legislative program that I saw my way straight to what I hoped was broad
                        day. The program he brought was so outrageous that it was funny. There was
                        nothing in it for the Ramsay interests, but each of the other ten had
                        apparently exhausted the ingenuity of its lawyers in concocting demands that
                        would have wrecked for ever the party granting them.
                    "Our friends are modest," said I.
                    "They've gone clean crazy," replied Woodruff.
                        "And if you could have heard them talk! It's impossible to
                        make them see that anybody has any rights but themselves."
                    "Well, let me have the details," said I. "Explain
                        every item on this list; tell me just what it means, and just how the
                        lawyers propose to disguise it so the people won't catch
                        on."
                    When he finished, I divided the demands into three classes,the impossible,
                        the possible, and the practicable. "Strike out all the
                        impossible," I directed. "Cut down the possible to the ten
                             that are least outrageous. Those ten and
                        the practicable must be passed."
                    He read off the ten which were beyond the limits of prudence, but not
                        mob-and-hanging matters. "We can pass them, of course,"
                        was his comment. "We could pass a law ordering the state house
                        burned, but"
                    "Precisely," said I. "I think the consequences
                        will be interesting." I cross-marked the five worst of the ten
                        possibilities. "Save those until the last weeks of the
                        session."
                    Early in the session Woodruff began to push the five least bad of the bad
                        measures on to the calendar of the legislature, one by one. When the third
                        was introduced, Burbank took the Limited for Washington. He arrived in time
                        to join my wife and my little daughter Frances and me at breakfast. He was
                        so white and sunkeneyed and his hands were so unsteady that Frances tried in
                        vain to take her solemn, wondering, pitying gaze from his face. As soon as
                        my study door closed behind us, he burst out, striding up and down.
                    "I don't know what to think,
                        Sayler," he  cried, "I
                        don't know what to think! The demands of these
                        corporations have been growing, growing, growing! And nowYou have seen the
                        calendar?"
                    "Yes," said I. "Some of the bills are pretty
                        stiff, aren't they? But the boys tell me they're for our
                        best friends, and that they're all necessary."
                    "No doubt, no doubt," he replied, "but it will be
                        impossible to reconcile the people." Suddenly he turned on me, his
                        eyes full of fear and suspicion. "Have you laid a
                        plot to ruin me, Sayler? It certainly looks that way. Have you a secret
                        ambition for the presidency"
                    "Don't talk rubbish, James," I interrupted. Those
                        few meaningless votes in the national convention had addled his common
                        sense. "Sit down,calm yourself,tell me all about it."
                    He seated himself and ran his fingers up and down his temples and through his
                        wet hair that was being so rapidly thinned and whitened by the struggles and
                        anxieties of his ambition. "My God!" he cried out,
                        "how I am punished! When I started in my public career, I looked
                        forward  and saw just this time,when I should
                        be the helpless tool in the hands of the power I sold myself to.
                        Governor!" He almost shouted the word, rising and pacing the floor
                        again. "Governor!"and he laughed in wild derision.
                    I watched him, fascinated. I, too, at the outset of my career, had looked
                        forward, and had seen the same peril, but I had avoided it. Wretched figure
                        that he was!what more wretched, more pitiable than a man groveling and
                        moaning in the mire of his own self-contempt? "Governor!"
                        I said to myself, as I saw awful thoughts flitting like demons of despair
                        across his face. And I shuddered, and pitied, and rejoiced,shuddered at the
                        narrowness of my own escape; pitied the man who seemed myself as I might
                        have been; and rejoiced that I had had my mother with me and in me to impel
                        me into another course.
                    "Come, come, Burbank," said I, "you're
                        not yourself; you've lost sleep"
                    "Sleep!" he interrupted, "I have not closed my
                        eyes since I read those cursed bills."
                    "Tell me what you want done," was my suggestion.  "I'll help in any way I
                        can,any way that's practicable."
                    "Oh, I understand your position, Sayler," he answered, when
                        he had got control of himself again, "but I see plainly that the
                        time has come when the power that rules me,that rules us both,has decided to
                        use me to my own destruction. If I refuse to do these things, it will
                        destroy me,and a hundred are eager to come forward and take my place. If I
                        do these things, the people will destroy me,and neither is that of the
                        smallest importance to our master."
                    His phrases, "the power that rules us both," and
                        "our master," jarred on me. So far as he knew, indeed, so
                        far as "our master" knew, were not he and I in the same
                        class? But that was no time for personal vanity. All I said was:
                        "The bills must go through. This is one of those crises that test a
                        man's loyalty to the party."
                    "For the good of the party!" he muttered with a bitter
                        sneer. "Crime upon crimeyes, crime, I saythat the party may keep
                        the favor of the powers! And to what end? to what good? Why, that the party
                        may continue in control and so  may be of
                        further use to its rulers." He rested his elbows on the table and
                        held his face between his hands. He looked terribly old, and weary beyond
                        the power ever to be rested again. "I stand with the party,what am
                        I without it?" he went on in a dull voice. "The people may
                        forget, but, if I offend the master,he never forgives or forgets.
                        I'll sign the bills, Sayler,if they come to me as
                        party measures."
                    Burbank had responded to the test.
                    A baser man would have acted as scores of governors, mayors, and judges have
                        acted in the same situationwould have accepted popular ruin and would have
                        compelled the powers to make him rich in compensation. A braver man would
                        have defied it and the powers, would have appealed to the peoplewith one
                        chance of winning out against ten thousand chances of being disbelieved and
                        laughed at as a "man who thinks he's too good for his
                        party." Burbank was neither too base nor too brave; clearly, I
                        assured myself, he is the man I want. I felt that I might safely relieve his
                        mind, so far as I could do so without letting him too far into my secret
                        plans.
                    
                    I had not spent five minutes in explanation before he was up, his face
                        radiant, and both hands stretched out to me.
                    "Forgive me, Harvey!" he cried. "I shall never
                        distrust you again. I put my future in your hands."
                
                
                
                    XII
                    BURBANK FIRES THE POPULAR HEART
                    That was, indeed, a wild winter at the state capital,a "carnival of
                        corruption," the newspapers of other states called it. One of the
                        first of the "black bills" to go through was a disguised
                        street railway grab, out of which Senator Croffut got a handsome
                        "counsel fee" of fiftyodd thousand dollars. But as the
                        rout went on, ever more audaciously and recklessly, he became uneasy. In
                        mid-February he was urging me to go West and try to do something to
                        "curb those infernal grabbers." I refused to interfere. He
                        went himself, and Woodruff reported to me that he was running round the
                        state house and the hotels like a crazy man; for when he got into the thick
                        of it, he realized that it was much worse than it seemed from Washington. In
                        a few days he was back and at me again.
                    "It's very strange," said he suspiciously.
                        "The boys say they're getting nothing out of it. They
                        declare they're simply obeying orders."
                    
                    "Whose orders?" I asked.
                    "I don't know," he answered, his eyes sharply upon
                        me. "But I do know that, unless something is done, I'll
                        not be returned to the Senate. We'll lose the legislature, sure,
                        next fall."
                    "It does look that way," I said with a touch of melancholy.
                        "That street railway grab was the beginning of our rake's
                        progress. We've been going it, hell bent, ever since."
                    He tossed his handsome head and was about to launch into an angry defense of
                        himself. But my manner checked him. He began to plead. "You can stop it, Sayler. Everybody out there says you can.
                        And, if I am relected, I've got a good chance for the presidential
                        nomination. Should I get it and be elected, we could form a combination that
                        would interest you, I think."
                    It was a beautiful irony that in his conceit he should give as his reason why
                        I should help him the very reason why I was not sorry he was to be beaten.
                        For, although he was not dangerous, still he was a rival public figure to
                        Burbank in our state, and,well, accidents sometimes happen, unless
                        they're guarded against.
                    
                    "What shall I do?" I asked him.
                    "Stop them from passing any more black bills. Why, they've
                        got half a dozen ready, some of them worse even than the two they passed
                        over Burbank's veto, a week ago."
                    "For instance?"
                    He cited three Power Trust bills.
                    "But why don't you stop those
                        three?" said I. "They're under the special
                        patronage of Dominick. You have influence with him."
                    "Dominick!" he groaned. "Are you sure?"
                        And when I nodded emphatically, he went on: "I'll do what
                        I can, but" He threw up his hands.
                    He was off for the West that night. When he returned, his face wore the look
                        of doom. He had always posed for the benefit of the galleries, especially
                        the women in the galleries. But now he became sloven in dress, often issued
                        forth unshaven, and sat sprawled at his desk in the Senate, his chin on his
                        shirt bosom, looking vague and starting when any one spoke to him.
                    Following my advice on the day when I sent him away happy, Burbank left the
                        capital and  the state just before the five
                        worst bills left the committees. He was called to the bedside of his wife
                        who, so all the newspapers announced, was at the point of death at Colorado
                        Springs.
                    While he was there nursing her as she "hovered between life and
                        death," the bills were jammed through the senate and the assembly.
                    He telegraphed the lieutenant governor not to sign them, as he was returning
                        and wished to deal with them himself. He reached the capital on a Thursday
                        morning, sent the bills back with a "ringing" veto
                        message, and took the late afternoon train for Colorado Springs. It was as
                        good a political "grand-stand play" as ever thrilled a
                        people.
                    The legislature passed the bills over his veto and adjourned that night.
                    Press and people, without regard to party lines, were loud in their
                        execrations of the "abandoned and shameless wretches" who
                        had "betrayed the state and had covered themselves with eternal
                        infamy." I quote from an editorial in the newspaper that was
                        regarded as my personal organ. But there was only praise for Burbank; his
                             enemies, and those who had doubted his
                        independence and had suspected him of willingness to do anything to further
                        his personal ambitions, admitted that he had shown "fearless
                        courage, inflexible honesty, and the highest ideals of private sacrifice to
                        public duty." And they eagerly exaggerated him, to make his white
                        contrast more vividly with the black of the "satanic
                        spawn" in the legislature. His fame spread, carried far and wide by
                        the sentimentality in that supposed struggle between heart and conscience,
                        between love for the wife of his bosom and duty to the people.
                    Carlotta, who like most women took no interest in politics because it lacks
                        "heart-interest," came to me with eyes swimming and cheeks
                        aglow. She had just been reading about Burbank's heroism.
                    "Isn't he splendid!" she cried. "I always
                        told you he'd be President. And you didn't believe
                        me."
                    "Be patient with me, my dear," said I. "I am not a
                        woman with seven-league boots of intuition. I'm only a heavy-footed
                        man."
                
                
                
                    XIII
                    ROEBUCK & CO. PASS UNDER THE YOKE
                    And now the stage had been reached at which my ten mutinous clients could be,
                        and must be, disciplined.
                    As a first step, I resigned the chairmanship of the state committee and
                        ordered the election of Woodruff to the vacancy. I should soon have
                        substituted Woodruff for myself, in any event. I had never wanted the place,
                        and had taken it only because to refuse it would have been to throw away the
                        golden opportunity Dunkirk so unexpectedly thrust at me. Holding that
                        position, or any other officially connecting me with my party's
                        machine, made me a target; and I wished to be completely hidden, for I
                        wished the people of my state to think me merely one of the party servants,
                        in sympathy with the rank and file rather than with the machine. Yet, in the
                        chairmanship, in the targetship, I must have a man whom I could trust
                        through and through;  and, save Woodruff, who
                        was there for the place?
                    When my resignation was announced, the independent and the opposition press
                        congratulated me on my high principle in refusing to have any official
                        connection with the machine responsible for such infamies. When
                        Woodruff's election was announced it came as a complete surprise.
                        Such of the newspapers as dared, and they were few, denounced it as
                        infamy's crown of infamy; and the rank and file of the party was
                        shocked,as I had known it would be. He made not a murmur, but I knew what
                        must be in his mind. I said nothing until six weeks or two months had
                        passed; then I went straight at him.
                    "You are feeling bitter against me," said I. "You
                        think I dropped out when there was danger of heavy firing, and put you up to
                        take it."
                    "No, indeed, Senator," he protested, "nothing like
                        that. Honestly, I have not had a bitter thought against you. I'm
                        depressed simply because, just as I had a chance to get on my feet again,
                        they won't let me."
                    "But," I rejoined, "I did resign and put you  in my place because I didn't want to
                        take the fire and thought you could."
                    "And so I can," said he. "I haven't any
                        reputation to lose. I'm no worse off than I was before. Let
                        'em do their damnedest."
                    "Your first campaign will probably be a failure," I went
                        on, "and, the day after election, there'll be a shout for
                        your head."
                    He shrugged his shoulders. "I'm enlisted for the
                        war," said he. "You're my general. I go where you
                        order."
                    I hope the feelings that surged up in me showed in my face, as I stretched
                        out my hand. "Thank you, Doc," said I.
                        "Andthere's another side to it. It isn't all
                        black."
                    "It isn't black at all," he replied stoutly.
                    I explained: "I've wanted you to have the place from the
                        outset. But I shouldn't dare give it to you except at a time like
                        this, when our party has done so many unpopular things that one more
                        won't count; and there's so much to be said against us, so
                        much worse things than they can possibly make out your election to be, that
                        it'll soon be almost neglected."
                    
                    "They're beginning to drop me already and go back to
                        harrying those poor devils of ours in the legislature," said
                        Woodruff.
                    "A few weeks more," I went on, "and
                        you'll be safe and you are to stay chairman, no matter what
                        happens. When they have leisure to attack you, there'll be nothing
                        to attack. The people will have dismissed the matter from their minds. They
                        don't care to watch the thresing of old straw."
                    I saw that I had lifted a weight from him, though he said nothing.
                    So much for my first move toward the chastening of my clients. Further and
                        even more effective in the same direction, I cut down our campaign fund for
                        the legislative ticket to one-fifth what it usually was; and, without even
                        Woodruff's knowing it, I heavily subsidized the opposition machine.
                        Wherever it could be done with safety I arranged for the trading off of our
                        legislative ticket for our candidate for governor. "The legislature
                        is hopelessly lost," I told Woodruff; "we must concentrate
                        on the governorship. We must save what we can." In fact, so
                        over-whelmingly  was our party in the
                        majority, and so loyal were its rank and file, that it was only by the most
                        careful arrangement of weak candidates and of insufficient campaign funds
                        that I was able to throw the legislature to the opposition. Our candidate
                        for governor, WalbrookBurbank was ineligible to a second successive termwas
                        elected by a comfortable plurality. And, by the way, I saw to it that the
                        party organs gave Woodruff enthusiastic praise for rescuing so much from
                        what had looked like utter ruin.
                    My clients had been uneasy ever since the furious popular outburst which had
                        followed their breaking away from my direction and restraint. When they saw
                        an opposition legislature, they readily believed what they read in the
                        newspapers about the "impending reign of radicalism."
                        Silliman, the opposition leader, had accepted John Markham's offer
                        of one hundred and fifty thousand dollars for Croffut's seat in the
                        Senate; but I directed him to send Veerhoft, one of the wildest and
                        cleverest of the opposition radicals. He dared not disobey me. Veerhoft
                        went, and Markham never saw again the seventy-five  thousand he had paid Silliman as a
                        "retainer."
                    Veerhoft in the United States Senate gave my clients the chills; but I was
                        preparing the fever for them also. I had Silliman introduce bills in both
                        houses of the legislature that reached for the privileges of the big
                        corporations and initiated proceedings to expose their corruption. I had
                        Woodruff suggest to Governor Walbrook that, in view of the popular clamor,
                        he ought to recommend measures for equalizing taxation and readjusting the
                        prices of franchises. As my clients were bonded and capitalized on the basis
                        of no expense either for taxes or for franchises, the governor's
                        suggestion, eagerly adopted by Silliman's
                        "horde," foreshadowed ruin. If the measures should be
                        passed, all the dividends and interest they were paying on
                        "water" would go into the public treasury.
                    My clients came to me, singly and in pairs, to grovel and to implore. An
                        interesting study these arrogant gentlemen made as they cringed, utterly
                        indifferent to the appearance of self-respect, in their agony for their
                        imperiled millions.  A mother would shrink
                        from abasing herself to save the life of her child as these men abased
                        themselves in the hope of saving their dollars. How they fawned and
                        flattered! They begged my pardon for having disregarded my advice; they
                        assured me that, if I would only exert that same genius of mine which had
                        conceived the combine, I could devise some way of saving them from this
                        tidal wave of popular clamor,for they hadn't a suspicion of my part
                        in making that tidal wave.
                    Reluctantly I consented to "see what I can do."
                    The instant change in the atmosphere of the capital, the instant outcry from
                        the organs of both parties that "the people had voted for reform,
                        not for confiscatory revolution," completed my demonstration. My
                        clients realized who was master of the machines. The threatening storm
                        rapidly scattered; the people, relieved that the Silliman program of
                        upheaval was not to be carried out, were glad enough to see the old
                        "conservative" order restored,our people always reason
                        that it is better to rot slowly by corruption 
                        than to be frightened to death by revolution.
                    "Hereafter, we must trust to your judgment in these political
                        matters, Harvey," said Roebuck. "The manager must be
                        permitted to manage."
                    I smiled at the ingenuousness of this speech. It did not ruffle me. Roebuck
                        was one of those men who say their prayers in a patronizing tone.
                    Yes, I was master. But it is only now, in the retrospect of years, that I
                        have any sense of triumph; for I had won the supremacy with small effort,
                        comparatively,with the small effort required of him who sees the conditions
                        of a situation clearly, and, instead of trying to combat or to change them,
                        intelligently uses them to his ends. Nor do I now regard my achievement as
                        marvelous. Everything was in my favor; against me, there was nothing,no
                        organization, no plan, no knowledge of my aim. I wonder how much of their
                        supernal glory would be left to the world's men of action, from its
                        Alexanders and Napoleons down to its successful bandits and ward-bosses, if
                        mankind were in the habit of  looking at what
                        the winner had opposed to him,Alexander faced only by flocks of sheep-like
                        Asiatic slaves; Napoleon routing the badly trained, wretchedly officered
                        soldiers of decadent monarchies; and the bandit or ward-boss overcoming
                        peaceful and unprepared and unorganized citizens. Who would erect statues or
                        write eulogies to a man for mowing a field of corn-stalks with a scythe?
                        Mankind is never more amusing than in its hero-workship.
                    No, I should simply have been stupid had I failed.
                    Buteven had I been disposed to rein in and congratulate myself at the
                        quarter-stretch, I could not have done it. A man has, perhaps, some choice
                        as to his mount before he enters the race for success. But once in the
                        saddle and off, he must let the reins go; his control is confined to whip
                        and spur.
                
                
                
                    XIV
                    'A "BOOM-FACTORY"
                    In the early autumn of that last year of his as governor, Burbank's
                        wife dieda grim and unexpected fulfilment of their pretended anxieties of
                        six months before.
                    It was, in some respects, as great a loss to me as to himhow great to us both
                        I did notindeed, could notmeasure until several years passed. She was what I
                        regard as a typical American wifedevoted to her husband, jealously guarding
                        his interests, yet as keen to see his short-comings as she was to see her
                        own. And how much more persistent and intelligent in correcting her faults
                        than he in correcting his! Like most men, he was vainthat is, while he would
                        probably have admitted in a large, vague way that he wasn't
                        perfect, when it came to details he would defend his worst fault against any
                        and all criticism. Like most women, she, too, was vainbut an intelligent
                        woman's vanity, instead of making 
                        her self-complacent, somehow spurs her on to hide her weak points and to
                        show her best points in the best light. For example, Mrs. Burbank, a pretty
                        woman and proud of it, was yet conscious of her deficiencies in dress and in
                        manners through her plain and rural early surroundings. It was interesting,
                        and instructive, too, to watch her studying and cleverly copying, or rather,
                        adapting Carlotta; for she took from Carlotta only that which could be
                        fitted without visible joint into her own pattern.
                    Latterly, whenever I was urging upon Burbank a line of action requiring
                        courage or a sacrifice of some one of his many insidious forms of personal
                        vanity, I always arranged for her to be present at our conferences. And she
                        would sit there, apparently absorbed in her sewing; but in reality she was
                        seeing not only the surface reasons I gave him, but also those underlying
                        and more powerful reasons which we do not utter, sometimes because we like
                        to play the hypocrite to ourselves, again because we must give the other
                        person a chance to play the hypocrite before himselfand us. And often I left
                        him reluctant and trying to  muster courage to
                        refuse or finesse to evade, only to find him the next day consenting,
                        perhaps enthusiastic. Many's the time she spared me the
                        disagreeable necessity of being peremptorydoubly disagreeable because show
                        of authority has ever been distasteful to me and because an order can never
                        be so heartily executed as is an assimilated suggestion.
                    When I went to him a month after her death, I expected he would still be
                        crushed as he was at the funeral. I listened with a feeling of revulasion to
                        his stilted and, as it seemed to me, perfunctory platitudes on his
                        "irreparable loss"stale rhetoric about her, and to her most intimate friend and his! I had thought he would
                        be imagining himself done with ambition for ever; I had feared his strongly
                        religious nature would lead him to see a "judgment" upon
                        him and her for having exaggerated her indisposition to gain a political
                        point. And I had mapped out what I would say to induce him to go on.
                        Instead, after a few of those stereotyped mortuary sentences, he shifted to
                        politics and was presently showing me that her death had hardly interrupted
                        his plannings for  the presidential
                        nomination. As for the "judgment," I had forgotten that in
                        his religion his deity was always on his side, and his misfortunes were
                        always of the evil one. These deities of men of action! Man with his god a
                        ventriloquist puppet in his pocket, and with his conscience an old dog Tray
                        at his heels, needing no leading string!
                    However, it gave me a shock, this vivid reminder from Burbank of the slavery
                        of ambitionambition, the vice of vices. For it takes its victims'
                        allmoral, mental, physical. And, while other vices rarely wreck any but
                        small men or injure more than what is within their small circles of
                        influence, ambition seizes only the superior and sets them on to use their
                        superior powers to blast communities, states, nations, continents. Yet it is
                        called a virtue. And men who have sold themselves to it and for it to the
                        last shred of manhood are esteemed and, mystery of mysteries, esteem
                        themselves!
                    I had come to Burbank to manufacture him into a President. His wife and I had
                        together produced an excellent raw material. Now, to make it up into the
                        finished product!
                    
                    He pointed to the filing-cases that covered the west wall of his library from
                        floor to ceiling, from north window to south. "I base my hope on
                        thosenext to you, of course," said he. Then with his
                        "woeful widower" pose, he added: "They were her suggestions."
                    I looked at the filing-cases and waited for him to explain.
                    "When we were first married," he went on presently,
                        "she said, 'It seems to me, if I were a public man, I
                        should keep everything relating to myselfevery speech, all that the
                        newspapers said, every meeting and the lists of the important people who
                        were there, notes of all the people I ever met anywhere,
                        every letter or telegram or note I received. If you do, you may find after a
                        few years that you have an enormous list of acquaintances. You've
                        forgotten them because you meet so many, but they will not have forgotten
                        you, who were one of the principal figures at the meeting or
                        reception.' That's in substance what she said. And so, we
                        began and kept it up"he paused in his deliberate manner, compressed
                        his lips, then added"together."
                    
                    I opened one of the filing-cases, glanced at him for permission, took out a
                        slip of paper under the M's. It was covered with notes, in Mrs.
                        Burbank's writing, of a reception given to him at the
                        Manufacturers' Club in St. Louis three years before. A lot of
                        names, after each some reminders of the standing and the personal appearance
                        of the man. Another slip, taken at random from the same box, contained
                        similar notes of a trip through Montana eight years before.
                    "Wonderful!" I exclaimed, as the full value of these
                        accumulations loomed in my mind. "I knew she was an extraordinary
                        woman. Now I see that she had genius for politics."
                    His expressiona peering through that eternal pose of hismade me revise my
                        first judgment of his mourning. For I caught a glimpse of a real human
                        being, one who had loved and lost, looking grief and pride and gratitude.
                        "If she had left me two or three years earlier," he said
                        in that solemn, posing tone, "I doubt if I should have got one step
                        further. As it is, I may be able to go on, thoughI have lostmy
                        staff."
                    What fantastic envelopes does man, after he 
                        has been finished by Nature, wrap about himself in his efforts to improve
                        her handiwork! Physically, even when most dressed, we are naked in
                        comparison with the enswathings that hide our real mental and moral selves
                        from one anotherand from ourselves.
                    My campaign was based on the contents of those filing-cases. I learned all
                        the places throughout the Westcities, towns, centrally-located villageswhere
                        he had been and had made an impression; and by simple and obvious means we
                        were able to convert them into centers of "the Burbank
                        boom." I could afterward trace to the use we made of those
                        memoranda the direct getting of no less than one hundred and seven delegates
                        to the national conventionand that takes no account of the vaster indirect
                        value of so much easily worked-up, genuine, unpurchased and unpurchasable
                        "Burbank sentiment." The man of only local prominence,
                        whom Burbank remembered perfectly after a chance meeting years before, could
                        have no doubt who ought to be the party's nominee for President.
                    The national machine of our party was then  in
                        the custody, and supposedly in the control, of Senator Goodrich of New
                        Jersey. He had a reputation for Machiavellian dexterity, but I found that he
                        was an accident rather than an actuality.
                    The dominion of the great business interests over politics was the rapid
                        growth of about twenty yearsthe consolidations of business naturally
                        producing concentrations of the business world's political power in
                        the hands of the few controllers of the big railway, industrial and
                        financial combines. Goodrich had happened to be acquainted with some of the
                        most influential of these business "kings"; they naturally
                        made him their agent for the conveying of their wishes and their bribes of
                        one kind and another to the national managers of both parties. They knew
                        little of the details of practical politics, knew only what they needed in
                        their businesses; and as long as they got that, it did not interest them
                        what was done with the rest of the power their "campaign
                        contributions" gave.
                    With such resources any man of good intelligence and discretion could have
                        got the same results as Goodrich's. He was simply a lackey,  strutting and cutting a figure in his
                        master's clothes and under his master's name. He was
                        pitifully vain of his reputation as a Machiavelli and a go-between. Vanity
                        is sometimes a source of great strength; but vanity of that sort, and about
                        a position in which secrecy is the prime requisite, could mean only
                        weakness.
                    Throughout his eight years of control of our party it had had possession of
                        all departments of the national administrationexcept of the House of
                        Representatives during the past two years. This meant the uninterrupted and
                        unchecked reign of the interests. To treat with consideration the interests,
                        the strong men of the country, they who must have a free hand for developing
                        its resources, to give them privileges and immunities beyond what can be
                        permitted the ordinary citizen or corporationthat is a course which, however
                        offensive to abstract justice, still has, as it seems to me, a practical
                        justice in it, and, at any rate, must be pursued so long as the masses of
                        the voters are short-sighted, unreasoning and in noserings to political
                        machines. A man's rights, whatever they may be in theory, are in
                        practice only  what he has the intelligence
                        and the power to compel. But, for the sake of the nation, for the upholding
                        of civilization itself, these over-powerful interests should never be given
                        their heads, should be restrained as closely as may be to their rightstheir
                            practical rights. Goodrich had neither the sagacity
                        nor the patriotismnor the force of will, for that matterto keep them within
                        the limits of decency and discretion. Hence the riot of plunder and
                        privilege which revolted and alarmed me when I came to Washington and saw
                        politics in the country-wide, yes, history-wide, horizon of that view-point.
                    Probably I should have been more leisurely in bringing my presidential plans
                        to a focus, had I not seen how great and how near was the peril to my party.
                        It seemed to me, not indeed a perfect or even a satisfactory, but the best
                        available, instrument for holding the balances of order as even as might be
                        between our country's two opposing elements of disorderthe greedy
                        plunderers and the rapidly infuriating plundered. And I saw that no time was
                        to be lost, if the party was not to be blown to fragments. The first
                        mutterings of the  storm were in our summary
                        ejection from control of the House in the midway election. If the party were
                        not to be dismembered, I must oust Goodrich, must defeat his plans for
                        nominating Cromwell, must nominate Burbank instead. If I should succeed in
                        electing him, I reasoned that I could through him carry out my policy of
                        moderation and practical patriotismto yield to the
                        powerful few a minimum of what they could compel, to give to the prostrate
                        but potentially powerful many at least enough to keep them quieta
                        stomachful. The world may have advanced; but patriotism still remains the
                        art of restraining the arrogance of full stomachs and the anger of empty
                        ones.
                    In Cromwell, Goodrich believed he had a candidate with sufficient hold upon
                        the rank and file of the party to enable him to carry the election by the
                        usual meansa big campaign fund properly distributed in the doubtful states.
                        I said to Senator Scarborough of Indiana soon after Cromwell's
                        candidacy was announced: "What do you think of Goodrich's
                        man?"
                    Scarborough, though new to the Senate then, 
                        had shown himself far and away the ablest of the opposition Senators. He had
                        as much intellect as any of them; and he had what theorists, such as he,
                        usually lack, skill at "grand tactics"the management of
                        men in the mass. His one weaknessand that, from my standpoint, a great
                        onewas a literal belief in democratic institutions and in the inspiring but
                        in practice pernicious principle of exact equality before the law.
                    "Cromwell's political sponsors," was his reply,
                        "are two as shrewd bankers as there are in New York. I have heard
                        it said that a fitting sign for a bank would be: 'Here we do
                        nothing for nothing for nobody.'"
                    An admirable summing up of Cromwell's candidacy. And I knew that it
                        would so appear to the country, that no matter how great a corruption fund
                        Goodrich might throw into the campaign, we should, in that time of public
                        exasperation, be routed if Cromwell was our standard-bearerso utterly routed
                        that we could not possibly get ourselves together again for eight, perhaps
                        twelve years. There might even be a re-alignment of parties with some sort
                        of socialism in control of  one of them. If
                        control were to be retained by the few who have the capital and the
                        intellect to make efficient the nation's resources and energy, my
                        projects must be put through at once.
                    I had accumulated a fund of five hundred thousand dollars for my
                        "presidential flotation"half of it contributed by Roebuck
                        in exchange for a promise that his son-in-law should have an ambassadorship
                        if Burbank were elected; the other half set aside by me from the
                        "reserve" I had formed out of the year-by-year
                        contributions of my combine. By the judicious investment of that capital I
                        purposed to get Burbank the nomination on the first ballotat least four
                        hundred and sixty of the nine hundred-odd delegates.
                    In a national convention the delegates are, roughly speaking, about evenly
                        divided among the three sections of the countrya third from east of the
                        Alleghanies; a third from the West; a third from the South. It was hopeless
                        for us to gun for delegates in the East; that was the especial bailiwick of
                        Senator Goodrich. The most we could do there would be to keep him occupied
                        by quietly encouraging any anti-Cromwell sentiment  and it existed a-plenty. Our real efforts were to be in the
                        West and South.
                    I organized under Woodruff a corps of about thirty traveling agents. Each man
                        knew only his own duties, knew nothing of the general plan, not even that
                        there was a general plan. Each was a trained political worker, a personal
                        retainer of ours. I gave them their instructions; Woodruff equipped them
                        with the necessary cash. During the next five months they were incessantly
                        on the godealing with our party's western machines where they
                        could; setting up rival machines in promising localities where Goodrich
                        controlled the regular machines; using money here, diplomacy there, both
                        yonder, promises of patronage everywhere.
                    Such was my department of secrecy. At the head of my department of publicity
                        I put De Milt, a sort of cousin of Burbank's and a newspaper man.
                        He attended to the subsidizing of news agencies that supplied thousands of
                        country papers with boiler-plate matter to fill their inside pages. He also
                        subsidized and otherwise won over many small town organs of the party.
                        Further,  he and three assistants wrote each
                        week many columns of "boom" matter, all of which was
                        carefully revised by Burbank himself before it went out as
                        "syndicate letters." If Goodrich hadn't been
                        ignorant of conditions west of the Alleghanies and confident that his will
                        was law, he would have scented out this department of publicity of mine and
                        so would have seen into my "flotation." But he knew
                        nothing beyond his routine. I once asked him how many country newspapers
                        there were in the United States, and he said: "Oh, I don't
                        know. Perhaps three or four thousand." Even had I enlightened him
                        to the extent of telling him that there were about five times that number,
                        he would have profited nothing. Had he been able to see the importance of
                        such a fact to capable political management, he would have learned it long
                        before through years of constant use of the easiest avenue into the heart of
                        the people.
                    He did not wake up to adequate action until the fourth of that group of
                        states whose delegations to our national conventions were habitually bought
                        and sold, broke its agreement with him  and
                        instructed its delegation to vote for Burbank. By the time he had a corps of
                        agents in those states, Doc Woodruff had "acquired" more
                        than a hundred delegates. Goodrich was working only through the regular
                        machinery of the party and was fighting against a widespread feeling that
                        Cromwell shouldn't, and probably couldn't, be elected; we,
                        on the other hand, were manufacturing presidential sentiment for a candidate
                        who was already popular. Nor had Goodrich much advantage over us with the
                        regular machines anywhere except in the East.
                    Just as I was congratulating myself that nothing could happen to prevent our
                        triumph at the convention, Roebuck telegraphed me to come to Chicago. I
                        found with him in the sitting-room of his suite in the Auditorium Annex,
                        Partridge and Granby, next to him the most important members of my combine,
                        since they were the only ones who had interests that extended into many
                        states. It was after an uneasy silence that Granby, the uncouth one of the
                        three, said:
                    "Senator, we brought you here to tell you this Burbank nonsense has
                        gone far enough."
                
                
                
                    XV
                    MUTINY
                    It was all I could do not to show my astonishment and sudden fury.
                        "I don't understand," said I, in a tone which I
                        somehow managed to keep down to tranquil inquiry.
                    But I did understand. It instantly came to me that the three had been brought
                        into line for Cromwell by their powerful business associates in Wall Street,
                        probably by the great bankers who loaned them money. Swift upon the surge of
                        anger I had suppressed before it flamed at the surface came a surge of
                        triumphwhich I also suppressed. I had often wished, perhaps as a matter of
                        personal pride, just this opportunity; and here it was!
                    "Crowmwell must be nominated," said Granby in his insolent
                        tone. He had but two tonesthe insolent and the cringing.
                        "He's safe and sound. Burbank isn't trusted in
                        the East. And we didn't  like his
                        conduct last year. He caters to the demagogues."
                    Roebuck, through his liking for me, I imagine, rather than through refined
                        instinct, now began to speak, thinly disguising his orders as requests. I
                        waited until he had talked himself out. I waited with the same air of calm
                        attention until Partridge had given me his jerky variation. I waited, still
                        apparently calm, until the silence must have been extremely uncomfortable to
                        them. I waited until Granby said sharply, "Then it is
                        settled?"
                    "Yes," said I, keeping all emotion out of my face and
                        voice. "It is settled. Ex-Governor Burbank is to be nominated. I am
                        at a loss to account for this outbreak. However, I shall at once take
                        measures to prevent its occurring again. Good day."
                    And I was gonestraight to the train. I did not pause at Fredonia but went on
                        to the capital. The next morning I had the legislature and the
                        attorney-general at work demolishing Granby's business in my
                        statefor I had selected him to make an example of, incidentally because he
                        had insulted me, but chiefly because he was the most  notorious of my ten, was about the greediest and cruelest
                        "robber baron" in the West. My legislature was to revoke
                        his charter; my attorney-general was to enforce upon him the laws I had put
                        on the statute books against just such emergencies. And it had never entered
                        their swollen heads cies. And it had never entered their swollen heads that
                        I might have taken these precautions that are in the primer of political
                        management.
                    My three mutineers pursued me to the capital, missed me, were standing
                        breathless at the door of my house near Fredonia on the morning of the third
                        day. I refused to be seen until the afternoon of the fourth day, and then I
                        forbade Granby. But when I descended to the reception-room he rushed at me,
                        tried to take my hand, pouring out a stream of sickening apologies. I rang
                        the bell. When a servant appeared, I said, "Show this man the
                        door."
                    Granby turned white and, after a long look into my face, said in a broken
                        voice to Roebuck: "For God's sake, don't go back
                        on me, Mr. Roebuck. Do what you can for me."
                    As the curtain dropped behind him, I looked expectantly at Roebuck, sweating
                        with fright for  his imperiled millions.
                        Probably his mental state can be fully appreciated only by a man who has
                        also felt the dread of losing the wealth upon which he is wholly dependent
                        for courage, respect and self-respect.
                    "Don't misunderstand me, Harvey," he began to
                        plead, forgetting that there was anybody else to save besides himself.
                        "I didn't mean"
                    "What did you mean?" I interrupted, my
                        tone ominously quiet.
                    "We didn't intend" began Partridge.
                    "What did you intend?" I interrupted as
                        quietly as before.
                    They looked nervously each at the other, then at me. "If you think
                        Burbank's the man," Roebuck began again, "why,
                        you may go ahead"
                    There burst in me such a storm of anger that I dared not speak until I could
                        control and aim the explosion. Partridge saw how, and how seriously, Roebuck
                        had blundered. He thrust him aside and faced me. "What's
                        the use of beating around the bush?" he said bluntly.
                        "We've made damn fools of ourselves, Senator. We thought
                        we had the whip. We see that we haven't. We're  mighty sorry we didn't do a little
                        thinking before Roebuck sent that telegram. We hope you'll let us
                        off as easy as you can, and we promise not to meddle in your business
                        againand you can bet your life we'll keep our promise."
                    "I think you will," said I.
                    "I am a man of my world," said he. "And so is
                        Roebuck."
                    "Oh, I don't mean that," was my answer.
                        "I mean, when the Granby object-lesson in the stupidity of premature ingratitude is complete, you shan't be
                        able to forget it."
                    They drifted gloomily in the current of their unpleasant thoughts; then each
                        took a turn at wringing my hand. I invited them up to my sitting-room where
                        we smoked and talked amicably for a couple of hours. It would have amused
                        the thousands of employs and dependents over whom these two lorded it
                        arrogantly to have heard with what care they weighed their timid words, how
                        nervous they were lest they should give me fresh provocation. As they were
                        leaving, Roebuck said earnestly: "Isn't there anything I can do for you, Harvey?"
                    
                    "Why, yes," said I. "Give out a statement next
                        Sunday in Chicagofor the Monday morning papersindorsing Crowwell's
                        candidacy. Say you and all your associates are enthusiastic for it because
                        his election would give the large enterprises that have been the object of
                        demagogic attack a sense of security for at least four years more."
                    He thought I was joking him, being unable to believe me so lacking in
                        judgment as to fail to realize what a profound impression in
                        Cromwell's favor such a statement from the great Roebuck would
                        produce. I wrote and mailed him an interview with himself the following day;
                        he gave it out as I had requested. It got me Burbank delegations in
                        Illinois, South Dakota and Oregon the same week.
                
                
                
                    XVI
                    A VICTORY FOR THE PEOPLE
                    I arrived at Chicago the day before the convention and, going at once to our
                        state headquarters in the Great Northern, shut myself in with Doc Woodruff.
                        My door-keeper, the member of the legislature from Fredonia, ventured to
                        interrupt with the announcement that a messenger had come from Senator
                        Goodrich.
                    "Let him in," said I.
                    As the door-man disappeared Doc Woodruff glanced at his watch, then said with
                        a smile: "You've been here seven minutes and a halfjust
                        time for a lookout down stairs to telephone to the Auditorium and for the
                        messenger to drive from there here. Goodrich is on the anxious-seat, all
                        right."
                    The messenger was Goodrich's handy-man, Judge Dufour. I myself have
                        always frowned on these public exhibitions of the intimacy of judges in
                        practical politics; but Goodrich had many small  vanitieshe liked his judges to hold his coat and his governors to carry
                        his satchel. One would say that such petty weaknesses would be the undoing
                        of a man. Fortunately, we are not as weak as our weakness but as strong as
                        our strength; and while the universal weaknesses are shared by the strong,
                        their strength is peculiar and rare. After Dufour had introduced himself and
                        we had exchanged commonplaces he said: "Senator, there's a
                        little conference of some of the leaders at headquarters and it
                        isn't complete without you. So, Senator Goodrich has sent me over
                        to escort you."
                    "Thank youvery courteous of you and of him," said I without
                        hesitation, for I knew what was coming as soon as his name had been brought
                        in, and my course was laid out. "But I can't leave just
                        now. Please ask him if he won't come overany time within the next
                        four hours." This blandly and without a sign that I was conscious
                        of Dufour's stupefactionfor his vanity made him believe that the
                        god the great Dufour knelt to must be the god of gods.
                    There is no more important branch of the art of successful dealing with men
                        than the etiquette of  who shall call upon
                        whom. Many a man has in his very hour of triumph ruined his cause with a
                        blunder thereby going to see some one whom he should have compelled to come
                        to him, or by compelling some one to come to him when he should have made
                        the concession of going. I had two reasons for thus humiliating Goodrich,
                        neither of them the reason he doubtless attributed to me, the desire to feed
                        my vanity. My first reason was his temperament; I knew his having to come to
                        me would make him bow before me in spirit, as he was a tyrant, and tyrants
                        are always cringers. My second reason was that I thought myself near enough
                        to control of the convention to be able to win control by creating the
                        atmosphere of impending success. There is always a lot of fellows who wait
                        to see who is likely to win, so that they may be on the side of the man in
                        the plum tree; often there are enough of these to gain the victory for him
                        who can lure them over at just the right moment.
                    As soon as Dufour had taken his huge body away I said to Woodruff:
                        "Go out with your men and gather in the office down stairs as many
                        members  of the doubtful delegations as you
                        can. Keep them where they'll be bound to see Goodrich come in and
                        go out."
                    He rushed away, and I waitedworking with the leaders of three far-western
                        states. At the end of two hours, I won them by the spectacle of the arriving
                        Goodrich. He came in, serene, smiling, giving me the joyously shining eyes
                        and joyously firm hand-clasp of the politician's greeting; not an
                        outward sign that he would like to see me tortured to death by some slow
                        process then and there. Hypocritical preliminaries were not merely
                        unnecessary but even highly ridiculous; yet, so great was his anger and
                        confusion that he began with the "prospects for an old-time
                        convention, with old-time enthusiasm and that generous rivalry which is the
                        best sign of party health."
                    "I hope not, Senator," said I pleasantly. "Here,
                        we think the fight is overand won."
                    He lifted his eyebrows; but I saw his maxillary muscles twitching.
                        "We don't figure it out just that way at
                        headquarters," he replied oilily. "But, there's
                        no doubt about it, your man has developed strength in the West."
                    
                    "And South," said I, with deliberate intent to inflame, for
                        I knew how he must feel about those delegates we had bought away from him.
                    There were teeth enough in his smilebut little else. "I think
                        Burbank and Cromwell will be about even on the first ballot," said
                        he. "May the best man win! We're all working for the good
                        of the party and the country. ButI came, rather, to get your ideas about
                        platform."
                    I opened a drawer in the table at which I was sitting and took out a paper.
                        "We've embodied our ideas in this," said I,
                        holding the paper toward him. "There's a complete
                        platform, but we only insist on the five paragraphs immediately after the
                        preamble."
                    He seemed to age as he read. "Impossible!" he finally
                        exclaimed. "Preposterous! It would be difficult enough to get any
                        money for Cromwell on such a platform, well as our
                        conservative men know they can trust him. But for Burbankyou couldn't get a centnot a damn cent! A rickety
                        candidate on a rickety platformthat's what they'd
                        say."
                    I made no answer.
                    
                    "May I ask," he presently went on, "has
                        ex-Governor Burbank seen thisthis astonishing document?"
                    Burbank had written it. I confess when he first showed it to me, it had
                        affected me somewhat as it was now affecting Goodrich. For, a dealer with
                        business men as well as with public sentiment, I appreciated instantly the
                        shock some of the phrases would give the large interests. But Burbank had
                        not talked to me five minutes before I saw he was in the main right and that
                        his phrases only needed a little "toning down" so that
                        they wouldn't rasp too harshly on "conservative"
                        ears. "Yes, Mr. Burbank has seen it," said I. "He
                        approves itthough, of course, it does not represent his personal views, or his intentions."
                    "If Mr. Burbank approves this," exclaimed
                        Goodrich, red and tossing the paper on the table, "then my gravest
                        doubts about him are confirmed. He is an utterly unsafe man. He could not
                        carry a single state in the East where there are any large centerings of
                        capital or of enterprisenot even our yellow-dog states."
                    "He can and will carry them all," said I. "They
                            
                        must go for him, because after the opposition have
                        nominated, and have announced their platform, your people will regard him
                        as, at any rate, much the less of two evils. We have decided on that
                        platform because we wish to make it possible for him to carry the necessary
                        Western states. We can't hold our rank and file out here unless we
                        have a popular platform. The people must have their way before election, Senator, if the interests are to continue to have
                        their way after election."
                    "I'll never consent to that platform," said he,
                        rising.
                    "Very well," said I with a mild show of regret, rising also
                        as if I had no wish to prolong the interview.
                    He brought his hand down violently upon the paper. "This,"
                        he exclaimed, "is a timely uncovering of a most amazing plota plot
                        to turn our party over to demagoguery."
                    "To rescue it from the combination of demagoguery and plutagoguery
                        that is wrecking it," said I without heat, "and make it
                        again an instrument of at least sanity, perhaps of patriotism."
                    "We control the platform committee," he went  on, "and I can tell you now, Senator
                        Sayler, that that there platform, nor nothing like it, will never be
                        reported." In his agitation he went back to the grammar of his
                        youthful surroundings.
                    "I regret that you will force us to a fight on the floor of the
                        convention," I returned. "It can't but make a bad
                        impression on the country to see two factions in the partyone for the
                        people, the other against them."
                    Goodrich sat down.
                    "But," I went on, "at least, such a fight will
                        insure Burbank all the delegates except perhaps the two or three hundred you
                        directly control. You are courageous, Senator, to insist upon a count of
                        noses on the issues we raise there."
                    He took up the platform again, and began to pick it to pieces phrase by
                        phrase. That was what I wanted. Some phrases I defended, some I conceded
                        might be altered to advantage, others I cheerfully agreed to discard
                        altogether. Presently he had a pencil in his hand and was going over the
                        crucial paragraphs, was making interlineations. And he grew more and more
                        reasonable. At last I suggested that he take the platform away with  him, make the changes agreed upon and such
                        others as he might think wise, and send it back for my criticism and
                        suggestions. He assented, and we parted on excellent
                        terms"harmony" in the convention was assured.
                    When the amended platform came back late in the afternoon, I detained
                        Goodrich's messenger, the faithful Dufour again. It was still the
                        Burbank platform, with no changes we could not concede. I had a copy made
                        and gave it to Dufour, saying: "Tell the Senator I think this
                        admirable, a great improvement. But I'll try to see him tonight and
                        thank him."
                    I did not try to see him, however. I took no risk of lessening the effect
                        created by his having to come to me. He had entered through groups of
                        delegates from all parts of the country. He had passed out through a crowd,
                        so well did my men employ the time his long stay with me gave them.
                    On the next day the platform was adopted. On the following day, amid
                        delirious enthusiasm in the packed galleries and not a little agitation
                        among the delegateswho, even to the "knowing ones," were
                        as ignorant of what was really  going on as
                        private soldiers are of the general's plan of battleamid waving of
                        banners and crash of band and shriek of crowd Burbank was nominated on the
                        first ballot. Our press hailed the nomination as a "splendid
                        victory of the honest common sense of the entire party over the ultra
                        conservatism of a faction associated in the popular mind with segregated
                        wealth and undue enjoyment of the favors of laws and law-makers."
                    When I saw Burbank he took me graciously by the hand. "I thank you,
                        Harvey," he said, "for your aid in this glorious victory
                        of the people."
                    I did not realize then that his vanity was of the kind which can in an
                        instant spring into a Redwood colossus from the shriveled stalk to which the
                        last glare of truth has wilted it. Still his words and manner jarred on me.
                        As our eyes met, something in mineperhaps something he imagined he sawmade
                        him frown in the majesty of offended pose. Then his timidity took fright and
                        he said apologetically, "How can I repay you? After all, it is your
                        victory."
                    I protested.
                    "Then ours," said he. "Yours,
                        for us."
                
                
                
                    XVII
                    SCARBOROUGH
                    Now came the problemto elect.
                    We hear much of many wonders of combination and concentration of industrial power which railway and telegraph have wrought. But
                        nothing is said about what seems to me the greatest wonder of them allhow
                        these forces have resulted in the concentration of the political power of upwards of twelve millions of our fifteen
                        million voters; how the few can impose their ideas and their will upon
                        widening circles, out and out, until all are included. The are scattered;
                        the powers confer, man to man, day by day. The people are divided by
                        partizan and other prejudices; the powers are bound together by the one
                        self-interest. The people must accept such political organizations as are
                        provided for them; the powers pay for, and their agents make and direct,
                        those organizations. The people are poor; the powers are rich. The people
                        have not even offices  to bestow; the powers
                        have offices to give and lucrative employment of all kinds, and material and
                        social advancement,everything that the vanity or the appetite of man craves.
                        The people punish but feeblyusually the wrong personsand soon forget; the
                        powers relentlessly and surely pursue those who oppose them, forgive only
                        after the offender has surrendered unconditionally, and they never forget
                        where it is to their interest to remember. The powers know both what they
                        want and how to get it; the people know neither.
                    Back in March, when Goodrich first suspected that I had outgeneraled him, he
                        opened negotiations with the national machine of the opposition party. He
                        decided that, if I should succeed in nominating Burbank, he would save his
                        masters and himself by nominating as the opposition candidate a man under
                        their and his control, and by electing him with an enormous campaign fund.
                    Beckett, the subtlest and most influential of the managers of the national
                        machine of the opposition party, submitted several names to him. He selected
                        Henry J. Simpson, Justice of the Supreme 
                        Court of Ohioa slow, shy, ultra-conservative man, his brain spun full in
                        every cell with the cobwebs of legal technicality. He was, in his way,
                        almost as satisfactory a candidate for the interests as Cromwell would have
                        been. For, while he was honest, of what value is honesty when combined with
                        credulity and lack of knowledge of affairs? They knew what advisers he would
                        select, men trained in their service and taken from their legal staffs. They
                        knew he would shrink from anything "radical" or
                        "disturbing"that is, would not molest the two packs of
                        wolves, the business and the political, at their feast upon the public. He
                        came of a line of bigoted adherents of his party; he led a simple, retired
                        life among sheep and cows and books asleep in the skins of sheep and cows.
                        He wore old-fashioned rural whiskers, thickest in the throat, thinning
                        toward the jawbone, scant about the lower lip, absent from the upper. These
                        evidences of unfitness to cope with up-to-date corruption seemed to endear
                        him to the masses.
                    As soon as those big organs of the opposition that were in the control of the
                        powers began to  talk of Simpson as an ideal
                        candidate, I suspected what was in the wind. But I had my hands full; the
                        most I could then do was to supply my local "left-bower,"
                        Silliman, with funds and set him to work for a candidate for his party more
                        to my taste. It was fortunate for me that I had cured myself of the habit of
                        worrying. For it was plain that, if Goodrich and Beckett succeeded in
                        getting Simpson nominated by the opposition, I should have a hard fight to
                        raise the necessary campaign money. The large interests either would finance
                        Simpson or, should I convince them that Burbank was as good for their
                        purposes as Simpson, would be indifferent which won.
                    I directed Silliman to work for Rundle of Indiana, a thoroughly honest man,
                        in deadly earnest about half a dozen deadly wrong things, and capable of
                        anything in furthering themafter the manner of fanatics. If he had not been
                        in public life, he would have been a camp-meeting exhorter. Crowds liked to
                        listen to him; the radicals and radically inclined throughout the West swore
                        by him; he had had two terms in Congress, had got a  hundred-odd votes for the nomination for President at the last
                        national convention of the opposition. A splendid scare-crow for the Wall
                        Street crowd, but difficult to nominate over Goodrich's man Simpson
                        in a convention of practical politicians.
                    In Mayit was the afternoon of the very day my mutineers got back into the
                        harnessWoodruff asked me if I would see a man he had picked up in a
                        delegate-hunting trip into Indiana. "An old pal of mine, much the
                        better for the twelve years' wear since I last saw him. He has
                        always trained with the opposition. He's a full-fledged graduate of
                        the Indiana school of politics, and that's the best. It's
                        almost all craft therethey hate to give up money and don't use it
                        except as a last resort."
                    He brought in his manMerriweather by name. I liked the first look at himkeen,
                        cynical, indifferent. He had evidently sat in so many games of chance of all
                        kinds that play roused in him only the ice-cold passion of the purely
                        professional.
                    "There's been nothing doing in our state for  the last two or three yearsat least nothing
                        in my line," said he. "A rank outsider,
                        Scarborough"
                    I nodded. "Yes, I know him. He came into the Senate from your state
                        two years ago."
                    "Well, he's built up a machine of his own and runs things
                        to suit himself."
                    "I thought he wasn't a politician," said I.
                    Merriweather's bony face showed a faint grin. "The best
                        ever," said he. "He's put the professionals out
                        of business, without its costing him a cent. I've got tired of
                        waiting for him to blow over."
                    Tiredand hungry, I thought. After half an hour of pumping I sent him away,
                        detaining Woodruff. "What does he really think about
                        Rundle?" I asked.
                    "Says he hasn't the ghost of a chancethat
                        Scarborough'll control the Indiana delegation and that Scarborough
                        has no more use for lunatics than for grafters."
                    This was not encouraging. I called Merriweather back. "Why
                        don't you people nominate Scarborough at St. Louis?" said
                        I.
                    
                    Behind his surface of attention, I saw his mind traveling at lightning speed
                        in search of my hidden purpose along every avenue that my suggestion opened.
                    "Scarborough'd be a dangerous man for you," be a
                        dangerous man for you," he replied. "He's got a
                        nasty way of reaching across party lines for votes."
                    I kept my face a blank.
                    "You've played politics only in your own state or against
                        the Eastern crowd, these last few years," he went on, as if in
                        answer to my thoughts. "You don't realize what a hold
                        Scarborough's got through the entire West. He has split your party
                        and the machine of his own in our state, and they know all about him and his
                        doings in the states to the west. The people like a fellow that knocks out
                        the regulars."
                    "A good many call him a demagogue, don't they?"
                        said I.
                    "Yesand he is, in sort of a way," replied Merriweather.
                        "Butwell, he's got a knack of telling the truth so that it
                        doesn't scare folks. And he's managed to convince them
                        that he isn't looking out for number one. It can't be
                        denied  that he made a good governor. For
                        instance, he got after the monopolies, and the cost of living is twenty per
                        cent. lower in Indiana than just across the line in Ohio."
                    "Then I should say that all the large interests in the country would
                        line up against him," said I.
                    "Every one," said Merriweather, and an expression of
                        understanding flitted across his face. He went on: "But it
                        ain't much use talking about him. He couldn't get the
                        nominationat least, it wouldn't be easy to get it for
                        him."
                    "I suppose not," said I. "That's a job
                        for a first-class manand they're rare." And I shook hands
                        with him.
                    About a week later he returned, and tried to make a report to me. But I sent
                        him away, treating him very formally. I appreciated that, being an
                        experienced and capable man, he knew the wisdom of getting intimately in
                        touch with his real employer; but, as I had my incomparable Woodruff, better
                        far than I at the rough work of politics, there was no necessity for my
                        entangling myself. Merriweather went to Woodruff, and Woodruff reported to
                        meScarborough's friends  in
                        Indianapolis all, agreed that he did not want the nomination and would not
                        have it.
                    "We must force it on him," said I. "We must have
                        Scarborough."
                    Immediately after Burbank's nomination, Goodrich concentrated upon
                        nominating Judge Simpson. He had three weeks, and he worked hard and well. I
                        think he overdid it in the editorials in our party organs under his
                        influence in New York, Boston and other eastern citiesnever a day without
                        lugubrious screeds on the dismal outlook for Burbank if the other party
                        should put up Simpson. But his Simpson editorials in big opposition papers
                        undoubtedly produced an effect. I set for De Milt and his bureau of
                        underground publicity the task of showing up, as far as it was prudent to
                        expose intimate politics to the public, Goodrich and his crowd and their
                        conspiracy with Beckett and his crowd to secure the opposition nomination
                        for a man of the same offensive type as Cromwell. And I directed Woodruff to
                        supply Silliman and Merriweather and that department of my
                        "bi-partizan" machine with all the money they wanted.
                        "They  can't spend much to
                        advantage at this late day except for traveling expenses," said I.
                        "Our best plan, anyhow, is good honest missionary work with the
                        honest men of the other party who wish to see its best man
                        nominated."
                    While Goodrich's agents and Beckett's agents were
                        industriously arranging the eastern machinery of the opposition party for
                        Simpson, Merriweather had Silliman's men toiling in the West and
                        South to get Rundle delegates or uninstructed delegations. And, after our
                        conversation, he was reinforced by Woodruff and such men of his staff as
                        could be used without suspicion. Woodruff himself could permeate like an
                        odorless gas; you knew he was there only by the results. Nothing could be
                        done for Rundle in his own state; but the farther away from his home our men
                        got, the easier it was to induceby purchase and otherwisethe politicians of
                        his party to think well of him. This the more because they regarded Simpson
                        as a "stuff" and a "stiff"and they
                        weren't far wrong.
                    "It may not be Scarborough, and it probably won't be
                        Rundle," Woodruff said in his final report  to me, "but it certainly won't be Simpson.
                        He's the dead one, no matter how well he does on the first
                        ballot."
                    But I would not let him give me the detailsthe story of shrewd and slippery
                        plots, stratagems, surprises. "I am worn out, mind and
                        body," said I in apology for my obvious weariness and indifference.
                    For six months I had been incessantly at work. The tax upon memory alone, to
                        say nothing of the other faculties, had been crushing. Easy as political
                        facts always were for me, I could not lightly bear the strain of keeping
                        constantly in mind not merely the outlines, but also hundreds of the
                        details, of the political organizations of forty-odd states with all their
                        counties. And the tax on memory was probably the least. Then added to all my
                        political work was business care; for while I was absorbed in politics, Ed
                        Ramsay had badly muddled the business. Nor had I, like Burbank and Woodruff,
                        the power to empty my mind as I touched the pillow and so to get eight hours
                        of unbroken rest each night.
                    Woodruff began asking me for instructions.  But
                        my judgment was uncertain, and my imagination barren. "Do as you
                        think best," said I. "I must rest. I've reached
                        my limit,"my limit of endurance of the sights and odors and
                        befoulings of these sewers of politics I must in person adventure in order
                        to reach my goal. I must pause and rise to the surface for a breath of
                        decent air or I should not have the strength to finish these menial and even
                        vile tasks which no man can escape if he is a practical leader in the
                        practical activities of practical life.
                
                
                
                    XVIII
                    A DANGEROUS PAUSE
                    I took train for my friend Sandys' country place near Cleveland,
                        forbiding Woodruff or Burbank or my secretaries to communicate with me.
                        Sandys had no interest in politicshis fortune was in real estate and,
                        therefore, did not tempt or force him into relations with political
                        machines.
                    Early in the morning after my arrival I got away from the others and, with a
                        stag-hound who remembered me with favor from my last visit, struck into
                        woods that had never been despoiled by man. As I tramped on and on, my mind
                        seemed to revive, and I tried to take up the plots and schemes that had been
                        all-important yesterday. But I could not. Instead, as any sane man must when
                        he and nature are alone and face to face, I fell to marveling that I could
                        burn up myself, the best of me, the best years of my one life, in such a
                        fever of folly and fraud as this  political
                        career of mine. I seemed to be in a lucid interval between paroxysms of
                        insanity. I reviewed the men and things of my world as one recalls the
                        absurd and repellent visions of a nightmare. I shrank from passing from this
                        mood of wakefulness and reason back into the unreal reality of what had for
                        years been my all-in-all. I wandered hour after hour, sometimes imagining
                        that I was flying from the life I loathed, again that somewhere in those
                        cool, green, golden-lighted mazes I should findmy lost youth, and her. For,
                        how could I think of it without thinking of her also? It had been lighted by her; it had gone with her; it
                        lived in memory, illumined by her.
                    The beautiful, beautiful world-that-ought-to-be! The hideous, the horrible
                        world-that-is!
                    I did not return to the house until almost dinner-time. "I have to
                        go away to-morrow morning," I announced after dinner. For I felt
                        that, if I did not fly at once, I should lose all heart for the task which
                        must be finished.
                    "Why," protested Sandys, "you came to stay until
                        we all started with you for St. Louis."
                    "I must go," I repeated. I did not care to invent  an excuse; I could not give the reason. Had I
                        followed my impulse, I should have gone at once, that night.
                    By noon the next day I had again flung myself into the vexed political ocean
                        whose incessant buffetings give the swimmers small chance to think of
                        anything beyond the next oncoming wave.
                
                
                
                    XIX
                    DAVID SENT OUT AGAINST GOLIATH
                    I was almost master of myself again when, a week later, I got aboard the car
                        in which Carlotta and I were taking our friends to look on at the
                        opposition's convention at St. Louis.
                    When we arrived, I went at once to confer with Merriweather in a room at the
                        Southern Hotel which no one knew he had. "Simpson has under, rather
                        than over, five hundred delegates," was his first item of good
                        news. "It takes six hundred and fifty to nominate. As his sort of
                        boom always musters its greatest strength on the first ballot, I'm
                        putting my money two to one against him."
                    "And Scarborough?" I asked, wondering at my indifference to
                        this foreshadowing of triumph.
                    "My men talk him to every incoming delegation. It's well
                        known that he don't want the nomination and has forbidden his
                        friends to vote for him and has pledged them to work against  him. Then, too, the bosses and the boys
                        don't like himto put it mildly. But I think we're making
                        every one feel he's the only man they can put up, with a chance to
                        beat Burbank."
                    My wife and our friends and I dined at the Southern that night. As we were
                        about to leave, the streets began to fill. And presently through the
                        close-packed masses came at a walk an open carriagethe storm-center of a
                        roar that almost drowned the music of the four or five bands. The electric
                        lights made the scene bright as day.
                    "Who is he?" asked the woman at my sideMrs. Sandys.
                    She was looking at the man in that carriagethere were four,
                        but there was no mistaking him. He was seated, was giving not the slightest
                        heed to the cheering throngs. His soft black hat was pulled well down over
                        his brows; his handsome profile was stern, his face pale. If that crowd had
                        been hurling curses at him and preparing to tear him limb from limb he would
                        not have looked different. He was smooth-shaven, which made him seem younger
                        than I knew him to be. And over him was the glamour of the
                        world-that-ought-to-be  in which he lived and
                        had the power to compel others to live as long as they were under the spell
                        of his personality.
                    "That," I replied to Mrs. Sandys, "is Senator
                        Scarborough of Indiana."
                    "What's he so stern about?"
                    "I'm sure I don't knowperhaps to hide his
                        joy," said I.
                    But I did know, and my remark was the impulsive fling of envy. He had found
                        out, several weeks before, what a strong undercurrent was running toward
                        him. He was faced by a dilemmaif he did not go to the convention, it would
                        be said that he had stayed away deliberately, and he would be nominated; if
                        he went, to try to prevent his nomination, the enthusiasm of his admirers
                        and followers would give the excuse for forcing the nomination upon him. And
                        as he sat there, with that ominous tumult about him, he was realizing how
                        hard his task was to be.
                    His companions pushed him a passage through the crowds on the sidewalk and in
                        the lobby, and he shut himself away in the upper part of the hotel. When we
                        left, half an hour later, the people 
                        
                            "THAT," I REPLIED TO MRS. SANDYS,
                                "IS SENATOR SCARBOROUGH OF INDIANA" p. 226
                            
                        
                         were packed before that face of the hotel
                        which displayed the banner of the Indiana delegation, were cheering
                        Scarborough, were clamoringin vainfor him to show himself.
                    "But won't he offend them?" asked my wife.
                    "A crowd loves like a woman," said I.
                        "Indifference only excites it."
                    "Oh, I never loved that way," protested
                        Mrs. Sandys.
                    "Then," said my wife, rather sourly I thought,
                        "you and Mr. Sandys have something to live for."
                    And so we talked no more politics. There may be American women who really like to talk politics, but I never happened to know
                        one with so little sense. It's a pity we men do not imitate our
                        women more closely in one respect. In season and out of season, they never
                        talk anything but businesswoman's one business. When other things
                        are being discussed, they listen, or rather, pretend to listen; in reality,
                        their minds are still on their business, and how they shall contrive to
                        bring it back into the conversation with advantage to themselves.
                    Next day the convention adopted a wishy-washy 
                        platform much like Burbank'sif anything, weaker. I saw
                        Goodrich's blight upon it. But the victory cost him dear. That
                        night the delegates realized what a blunder they had madeor thought they
                        realized it after Merriweather and his staff had circulated among them. Few
                        of them had been trusted by Beckett with the secret that, with that platform
                        and with Simpson as the nominee, their party would have the interests behind
                        it, would almost certainly win. They only saw ahead a dull campaign, and no
                        real issue between the parties, and their candidate, if he was Simpson, much
                        the less attractive personality of the two.
                    The following morning the voting began; and after seven ballots Simpson had
                        thirty-nine votes less than on the first ballot. "It was like a
                        funeral," was the verdict of my disappointed guests that evening. A
                        night of debate and gloom among the politicians and other delegates, and on
                        the opening ballot Merriweather sprung his trap.
                    The first big doubtful state in the alphabetical list of states is Illinois.
                        When the secretary of  the convention called
                        for Illinois' vote, it was cast solidly for Scarborough.
                    There was straightway pandemonium. It was half an hour before any one could
                        get a hearing. Then Indiana was called, and Pierson, attorney general of
                        that state and chairman of its delegation, cast its vote as in the other
                        ballots, for Hitchens, its governor. From my box I was watching Scarborough
                        and his immediate friends going from delegation to delegation, and I knew
                        what he was about. When Iowa was called and cast its vote solidly for him I
                        knew he had failed.
                    "How white he is!" said Mrs. Sandys, who was looking at him
                        through opera-glasses.
                    I borrowed them and saw that his gaze was fixed on a box on the other side of
                        the huge auditorium, on a woman in that boxI had only to look at her to see
                        which woman. She was beautiful, of that type of charm which the French sum
                        up in the phrase "the woman of thirty." I have heard
                        crowds bellow too often to be moved by itthough the twenty or thirty
                        thousand gathered under that roof were outdoing the cannonade of any
                        thunderstorm. But that woman's look in response  to Scarborough'sthere was sympathy
                        and understanding in it, and more, infinitely more. He had been crushed for
                        the momentand I understood enough of his situation to understand what a blow
                        to all his plans this untimely apparent triumph was. She was showing that
                        she too felt the blow, but she was also sending a message of courage to
                        himone of those messages that transcend words, like music, like the perfumes
                        of flowers and fields, like that which fills us as we look straight up into
                        a clear night sky. I lowered the glasses and looked awayI could not bear it.
                        For the moment I hated himhating myself for it.
                    I heard Carlotta asking a woman in the box next ours the name of
                        "the woman with the white plume in the big black hat in the seventh
                        box on the other side."
                    "Mrs. Scarborough," was the answer.
                    "Oh, is that she?" exclaimed Mrs. Sandys,
                        almost snatching her glasses from me in her eagerness. "You know
                        who she wasJohn Dumont's widowyou remember him? She must be an
                        unusual person to have attracted two such men."
                    
                    But Scarborough was nominated now. He waved aside those who tried to take him
                        up and bear him to the platform. He walked down the aisle alone and ascended
                        amid a tense silence; he stood looking calmly out. His face had lost its
                        whiteness of a few minutes before. As he stood there, big and still, a sort
                        of embodiment of fearlessness, I wonderedand I fancy many others were
                        wonderingwhether he was about to refuse the nomination. But an
                        instant's thought drove the wild notion from my mind. He could not
                        strike that deadly blow at his party.
                    "Fellow delegates," said hea clearer, more musical voice
                        than his I have never heard"I thank you for this honor. As you
                        know, I opposed the platform you saw fit to adopt. I have nothing to
                        retract. I do not like it. But, after all, a candidate must be his own
                        platform. And I bring my public record as proof of my pledgethat"
                        he paused and the silence was tremendous. He went on, each word distinct and
                        by itself"if I am elected"a long pause"I shall
                        obey the Constitution"another long pause"I shall enforce
                        the laws!"
                    
                    He was descending to the aisle before the silence was brokena feeble,
                        rippling applause, significant of disappointment at what seemed an
                        anti-climax. He had merely repeated in condensed form the oath of office
                        which a President takes at his inauguration. But somehowno doubt, it was the
                        magic of his voice and his manner and superb presencethose simple words kept
                        on ringing; and all at oncefull half a minute must have elapsed, a long time
                        in such circumstancesall at once the enormous meaning of the two phrases
                        boomed into the brains of those thousands: If this man is elected, there
                        will be a President without fear or favor, and he will really obey the
                        Constitution, will really enforce the laws! That little speech, though only
                        a repetition of an oath embodied in our century-old supreme law, was a
                        firebrand to light the torch of revolution, of revolution back toward what
                        the republic used to be before differences of wealth divided its people into
                        upper, middle and lower classes, before enthroned corporate combinations
                        made equality before the law a mockery, before the development of our vast
                        material resources restored  to the
                        intelligent and energetic few their power over the careless and purposeless
                        many.
                    As the multitude realized his meaning,I doubt if many times in all history
                        such a sight and sound has burst upon mortal ears and eyes. For the moment I
                        was daunted; it was impossible not to think that here was the whole people,
                        not to feel that Scarborough had been chosen President and was about to
                        fulfil his pledge. Daunted, yet thrilled too. For, at bottom, are we not all
                        passionate dreamers of abstract right and justice?
                    Then I remembered; and I said to myself, "He has defied the
                        interests. David has gone out against Goliathbut the Davids do not win
                        nowadays. I can elect Burbank."
                    But where was the elation that thought would have set to swelling in the me of less than two weeks before? And then I began clearly
                        to see that, for me at least, the prize, to be prized, must be fairly won
                        from start to goal; and to be enjoyed, must gladden eyes that would in turn
                        gladden me with the approval and sympathy which only a woman can give and
                        without which a man is alone and indeed forlorn.
                
                
                
                    XX
                    PILGRIMS AND PATRIOTS
                    From St. Louis I went direct to Burbank.
                    His heart had been set upon a grand speech making tour. He was fond of
                        wandering about, showing himself to cheering crowds; and he had a deep, and
                        by no means unwarranted, confidence in his platform magnetism. At first I
                        had been inclined to give him his way. But the more I considered the matter,
                        the stronger seemed to become the force of the objectionsit takes a far
                        bigger man than was Burbank at that stage of his growth not to be cheapened
                        by "steeple-chasing for votes"; also, the coming of the
                        candidate causes jealousy and heart-burnings over matters of precedence,
                        reception and entertainment among the local celebrities, and so he often
                        leaves the party lukewarm where he found it enthusiastic. Further, it uses
                        up local campaign money that ought to be spent in hiring workers at the
                        polls, which is the polite phrase for vote-buying as
                        "retainingfee" is the polite phrase, for bribe.
                    
                    I decided against the tour and for the highly expensive but always admirable
                        and profitable "pilgrimage plan".
                    Burbank's own home was at Rivington, and I should have had him
                        visited there, had it not been on a single-track branch-railway which could
                        not handle without danger and discomfort the scores of thousands we were
                        planning to carry to and from him almost daily. So, it was given out that he
                        purposed as far as possible to withdraw from the strife of the campaign and
                        to await the results in the dignified calm in which he wished the voters to
                        determine it. He tookafter Woodruff had carefully selected ita
                        "retired" house "in the country."
                    And it was in the open country. A farm garden adjoined it on the one side, a
                        wheat field on the other, a large orchard to the rear. The broad meadow in
                        front gave plenty of room for delegations visiting the "standard
                        bearer of the party of patriotism" in his "rural
                        seclusion," to hear his simple, spontaneous words of welcome. But
                        for all the remote aspect of the place, it was only five minutes'
                        drive and ten minutes' walk from a 
                        station through which four big railroads passed. One of the out-buildings
                        was changed into a telegraph office from which accounts of the enthusiasm of
                        the delegations and of his speeches could be sent to the whole country. On
                        his desk in his little study stood a private-wire telephone that, without
                        danger of leakage, would put him in direct communication either with my
                        study at Fredonia or with Doc Woodruff's privatest private room in
                        the party national headquarters at Chicago. Thus, our statesman, though he
                        seemed to be aloof, was in the very thick of the fray; and the tens of
                        thousands of his fellow citizens, though they seemed to come almost on their
                        own invitation inspired by uncontrollable enthusiasm for the great
                        statesman, were in fact free excursionistsand a very troublesome, critical,
                        expensive lot they were. Butthe public was impressed. It sits in its seat in
                        the theater of action and believes that the play is real, and ignores and
                        forgets the fact that there is a behind-the-scenes.
                    The party distributed from various centers tons of
                        "literature." And in addition to meetings arranged by
                        state and local committees, a series of  huge
                        demonstrations was held in the cities of every doubtful state. Besides the
                        party's regular speakers, we hired as many
                        "independent" orators as we could. But all these other
                        branches of the public side of the campaign were subsidiary to the work at
                        the "retreat." It might be called the headquarters of the
                        rank and file of the partythose millions of "principle"
                        voters and workers who were for Burbank because he was the standard-bearer
                        of their party. No money, no bribes of patronage have to be given to them;
                        but it costs several millions to raise that mass to the pitch of hot
                        enthusiasm which will make each individual in it certain to go to the polls
                        on election day and take his neighbors, instead of staying at home and
                        hoping the party won't lose.
                    Burbank's work was, therefore, highly important. But the seat of the
                        real campaign was Woodruff's privatest private room in the Chicago
                        headquarters. For, there were laid and were put in the way of execution the
                        plans for acquiring those elements that, in the doubtful states, have the
                        balance of power between the two opposing and about evenly matched masses of
                        "principle"  voters. I just
                        now recall a talk I had with my wife, about that time. She took no interest
                        in politics and rarely spoke of political mattersand both of us discouraged
                        political talk before the children. One day she said to me: "This
                        campaign of yours and Mr. Burbank's must be costing an awful lot of
                        money."
                    "A good deal," said I.
                    "Several millions?"
                    "This is a big country, and you can't stir it up
                        politically for nothing. Why do you ask?"
                    "Who gives the money?" she persisted.
                    "The rich menthe big corporationsgive most of it."
                    "Why?"
                    "Patriotism," said I. "To save the nation from our
                        wicked opponent."
                    "How do Mr. Roebuck and the others get it back?" she
                        pursued, ignoring my pleasantry.
                    "Get what back?"
                    "Why the money they advance. They aren't the men to give anything."
                    I answered with a smile only.
                    She lapsed into thoughtfulness. When I was 
                        assuming that her mind had wandered off to something else she said:
                        "The people must be very stupidnot to suspect."
                    "Or, the rich men and the corporations very stupid to
                        give," I suggested.
                    "Do you mean that they don't get it back?" she
                        demanded.
                    "Of course," said I, "their patriotism must be
                        rewarded. We can not expect them to save the country year after year for
                        nothing."
                    "I should think not!" she said, adding disgustedly,
                        "I think politics is very silly. And men get excited about it! But
                            I never listen."
                    Arriving at the "retreat" from the Scarborough convention,
                        I found Burbank much perturbed because Scarborough had been nominated. He
                        did not say soon the contrary, he expressed in sonorous phrases his
                        satisfaction that there was to be "a real test of strength between
                        conservatism and radicalism." He never dropped his pose, even with
                        menot even with himself.
                    "I confess I don't share your cheerfulness," said
                        I. "If Scarborough were a wild man, we'd have a walkover.
                        But he isn't, and I fear he'll be  more and more attractive to the wavering voters, to many of
                        our own people. Party loyalty has been overworked in the last few
                        presidential campaigns. He'll go votehunting in the doubtful
                        states, but it won't seem undignified. He's one of those
                        men whose dignity comes from the inside and can't be
                        lost."
                    Burbank was unable to conceal his annoyancehe never could bear praise of
                        another man of his own rank in public life. Also he showed surprise.
                        "Why, I understoodI had been led to believethat youfavored his
                        nomination," was his guarded way of telling me he knew I had a hand
                        in bringing it about.
                    "So I did," replied I. "He was your only chance.
                        He won't be able to get a campaign fund of so much as a quarter of
                        a million, and the best workers of his party will at heart be against him.
                        Simpson would have hadwell, Goodrich could and would have got him enough to
                        elect him."
                    Burbank's eyes twitched. "I think you're
                        prejudiced against Senator Goodrich, Harvey," said he in his
                        gentlest tone. "He is first of all a loyal party man."
                    
                    "Loyal fiddlesticks!" replied I. "He is agent of
                        the Wall Street crowdthey're his party. He's just the
                        ordinary machine politician, with no more party feeling thanthan" I
                        smiled"than any other man behind the scenes."
                    Burbank dodged this by taking it as a jest. He always shed my frank speeches
                        as humor. "Prejudice, prejudice, Harvey!" he said in mild
                        reproof. "We need Goodrich, and"
                    "Pardon me," I interrupted. "We do not need him.
                        On the contrary, we must put him out of the party councils. If we
                        don't, he may try to help Scarborough. The Senate's safe,
                        no matter who's elected President; and Goodrich will rely on it to
                        save his crowd. He's a mountain of vanity and the two defeats
                        we've given him have made every atom of that vanity quiver with
                        hatred of us."
                    "I wish you could have been here when he called," said
                        Burbank. "I am sure you would have changed your mind."
                    "When does he resign the chairmanship of the national
                        committee?" I asked. "He agreed to plead bad health and
                        resign within two weeks after the convention."
                    
                    Burbank gave an embarrassed cough. "Don't you think,
                        Harvey," said he, "that, to soothe his vanity, it might be
                        well for usfor youto let him stay on therenominally, of course? I know you care nothing for titles."
                    Instead of being angered by this attempt to cozen me, by this exhibition of
                        treachery, I felt disgust and pityhow nauseating and how hopeless to try to
                        forward one so blind to his own interests, so easily frightened into
                        surrender to his worst enemies! But I spoke very quietly to him.
                        "The reason you want me to be chairmanfor it is you that want and
                        need it, not Ithe reason I must be chairman is because the
                        machine throughout the country must know that Goodrich is out and that your
                        friends are in. In what other way can this be accomplished?"
                    He did not dare try to reply.
                    I went on: "If he stays at the head of the national committee
                        Scarborough will be elected."
                    "You are prejudiced, Harvey"
                    "Please don't say that again, Governor," I
                        interrupted coldly. "I repeat, Goodrich must give place to me, or
                        Scarborough will be elected."
                    
                    "You don't mean that you would turn against me?"
                        came from him in a queer voice after a long pause.
                    "While I was in St. Louis, working to make you President,"
                        said I, "you were plotting behind my back, plotting against me and
                        yourself."
                    "You were at St. Louis aiding in the nomination of the strongest
                        candidate," he retorted, his bitterness distinct though guarded.
                    "Strongestyes. But strongest with whom?"
                    "With the people," he replied.
                    "Precisely," said I. "But the people are not going
                        to decide this election. The party lines are to be so closely drawn that
                        money will have the deciding vote. The men who organize and direct industry
                        and enterprisethey are going to decide it. And, in spite
                        of Goodrich's traitorous efforts, the opposition has put up the man
                        who can't get a penny from them."
                    In fact, I had just discovered that Scarborough had instructed Pierson, whom
                        he had made chairman of his campaign, not to take any money from any
                        corporation even if it was offered. But I thought it wiser to keep this from
                        Burbank.
                    
                    He sat folding a sheet of paper again and again. I let him reason it out.
                        Finally he said: "I see your point, Harvey. But I practically
                        promised Goodrichpractically asked him to remain"
                    I waited.
                    "For the sake of the cause," he went on when he saw he was
                        to get no help from me, "any and all personal sacrifices must be
                        made. If you insist on having Goodrich's head, I will break my
                        promise, and"
                    "Pardon me again," I interrupted. My mood would not
                        tolerate twaddle about "the cause" and
                        "promises" from BurbankBurbank, whose
                        "cause," as he had just shown afresh, was himself alone,
                        and who promised everything to everybody and kept only the most advantageous
                        promises after he had made absolutely sure how his advantage lay.
                        "It's all a matter of indifference to me. If you wish to
                        retain Goodrich, do so. He must not be dismissed as a personal favor to me.
                        The favor is to you. I do not permit any man to thimblerig his debts to me
                        into my debts to him."
                    Burbank seemed deeply moved. He came up to  me
                        and took my hand. "It is not like my friend Sayler to use the word
                        indifference in connection with me," he said. And then I realized
                        how completely the nomination had turned his head. For his tone was that of
                        the great man addressing his henchman.
                    I did not keep my amusement out of my eyes. "James," said
                        I, "indifference is precisely the word. I should welcome a chance
                        to withdraw from this campaign. I have been ambitious for power, you want place. If you think the time has come to dissolve
                        partnership, say soand trade yourself off to Goodrich."
                    He was angry through and through, not so much at my bluntness as at my having
                        seen into his plot to help himself at my expensefor, not even when I showed
                        it to him, could he see that it was to his interest to destroy Goodrich.
                        Moral coward that he was, the course of conciliation always appealed to him,
                        whether it was wise or not, and the course of courage always frightened him.
                        He bit his lip and dissembled his anger. Presently he began to pace up and
                        down the room, his head bent, his hands clasped behind him. After perhaps
                             five minutes he paused to say:
                        "You insist on taking the place yourself, Harvey?"
                    I stood before him and looked down at him. "Your suspicion that I
                        have also a personal reason is well-founded, James," said I.
                        "I wouldn't put myself in a position where I should have
                        to ask as a favor what I now get as a right. If I help you to the
                        presidency, I must be master of the national machine of the party, able to
                        use it with all its power and against any one"
                        here I looked him straight in the eye"who shall try to build
                        himself up at my expense. Personally, we are friends, and it has been a
                        pleasure to me to help elevate a man I liked. But there is no friendship in
                        affairs, except where friendship and interest point the same way. It is
                        strange that a man of your experience should expect friendship from me at a
                        time when you are showing that you haven't for me even the
                        friendship of enlightened selfinterest."
                    "Your practice is better than your theory, Harvey," said
                        he, putting on an injured, forgiving look and using his chest tones.
                        "A better friend never lived than you, and I know no other man  who gets the absolute loyalty you
                        get." He looked at me earnestly. "What has changed
                        you?" he asked. "Why are you so bitter and soso unlike
                        your even-tempered self?"
                    I waved his question aside,I had no mind to show him my uncovered coffin with
                        its tenant who only slept, or to expose to him the feelings which the erect
                        and fearless figure of Scarborough had set to stirring in me.
                        "I'm careful to choose my friends from among those who can
                        serve me and whom I can therefore serve," I said. "And
                        that is the sentimentalism of the wise. I wish us to remain
                        friendstherefore, I must be able to be as useful to you as you can be useful
                        to me."
                    "Goodrich shall go," was the upshot of his thinking.
                        "I'll telephone him this afternoon. Is my old friend
                        satisfied?"
                    "You have done what was best for yourself," said I, with
                        wholly good-humored raillery. And we shook hands, and I went.
                    I was glad to be alone where I could give way to my weariness and disgust;
                        for I had lost all the joy of the combat. The arena of ambition had now
                        become to me a ring where men are devoured  by
                        the beast-in-man after hideous battles. I turned from it, heart-sick.
                        "If only I had less intelligence, less insight," I
                        thought, "so that I could cheat myself as Burbank cheats himself.
                        Or, if I had the relentlessness or the supreme egotism, or whatever it is,
                        that enables great men to trample without a qualm, to destroy without pity,
                        to enjoy without remorse."
                
                
                
                    XXI
                    AN INTERLUDE
                    My nerves began to feel as if some one were gently sliding his fingers along
                        their bared lengthnot a pain, but as fear-inspiring as the sound of the
                        stealthy creep of the assassin moving up behind to strike a sudden and
                        mortal blow. I dismissed business and politics and went cruising on the
                        lakes with restful, non-political Fred Sandys.
                    After we had been knocking about perhaps a week, we landed one noon at the
                        private pier of the Liscombes to lunch with them. As Sandys and I strolled
                        toward the front of the house, several people, also guests for lunch, were
                        just descending from a long buckboard. At sight of one of them I stopped
                        short inside, though I mechanically continued to walk toward her. I
                        recognized her instantlythe curve of her shoulders, the poise of her head,
                        and her waving jet-black hair to confirm. And without the slightest warning
                        there came tumbling and roaring up in me a torrent  of longings, regrets; and I suddenly had a clear understanding
                        of my absorption in this wretched game I had been playing year in and year
                        out with hardly a glance up from the table. That wretched game with its
                        counterfeit stakes; and the more a man wins, the poorer he is.
                    She seemed calm enough as she faced me. Indeed, I was not sure when she had
                        first caught sight of me, or whether she had recognized me, until Mrs.
                        Liscombe began to introduce us. "Oh, yes," she then
                        interrupted, "I remember Senator Sayler very well. We used to live
                        in the same town. We went to the same school." And with a friendly
                        smile she gave me her hand.
                    What did I say? I do not know. But I am sure I gave no sign of the clamor
                        within. I had not cultivated surface-calm all those years in vain. I talked,
                        and she talkedbut I saw only her face, splendid fulfilment of the promise of
                        girlhood; I hardly heard her words, so greatly was her voice moving me. It
                        was an unusually deep voice for a woman, sweet and with a curious carrying
                        quality that made it seem stronger than it was. In figure she was delicate,
                        but radiant of life and  healthaglow, not
                        ablaze. She was neither tall nor short, and was dressed simply, but in the
                        fashionI heard the other women discussing her clothes after she left. And
                        she still had the mannerism that was most fascinating to meshe kept her eyes
                        down while she was talking or listening, and raised them now and then with a
                        full, slow look at you.
                    When Mrs. Liscombe asked her to come to dinner the next evening with the
                        people she was visiting, she said: "Unfortunately, I must start for
                        Washington in the morning. I am overhauling my school and building an
                        addition."
                    It had not occurred to me to think where she had come from or how she
                        happened to be there, or of anything in the years since I was last with her.
                        The reminder that she had a school came as a shockshe was so utterly unlike
                        my notion of the head of a school. I think she saw or felt what was in my
                        mind, for she went on, to me: "I've had it six years
                        nowthe next will be the seventh."
                    "Do you like it?" I asked.
                    "Don't I look like a happy woman?"
                    
                    "You do," said I, after our eyes had met. "You
                        are."
                    "There were sixty girls last yearsixty-three," she went on.
                        "Next year there will be moreabout a hundred. It's like a
                        garden, and I'm the gardener, busy from morning till night, with no
                        time to think of anything but my plants and flowers."
                    She had conjured a picture that made my heart ache. I suddenly felt old and
                        sad and lonelya forlorn failure. "I too am a gardener,"
                        said I. "But it's a sorry lot of weeds and thistles that
                        keeps me occupied. And in the midst of the garden is a plum treethat bears
                        Dead Sea fruit."
                    She was silent.
                    "You don't care for politics?" said I.
                    "No," she replied, and lifted and lowered her eyes in a
                        slow glance that made me wish I had not asked. "It is, I think,
                        gardening with weeds and thistles, as you say." Then, after a
                        pause: "Do you like it?"
                    "Don't ask me," I said with a bitterness that made
                        us both silent thereafter.
                    
                    That evening I got Fred to land me at the nearest town. The train she must
                        have been on had just gone. In the morning I took the express for the East.
                        Arrived at Washington, I drove straight to her school.
                    A high iron fence, not obstructing the view from the country road; a long
                        drive under arching maples and beeches; a rambling, fascinating old house
                        upon the crest of a hill; many windows, a pillared porch, a low, very wide
                        doorway. It seemed like her in its dark, cool, odorous beauty.
                    She herself was in the front hall, directing some workmen. "Why,
                        Senator Sayler, this is a surprise," she said,
                        advancing to greet me. But there was no suggestion of surprise in her tone
                        or her look, only a friendly welcome to an acquaintance.
                    She led the way into the drawing-room to the left. The furniture and pictures
                        were in ghostly draperies; everything was in confusion. We went on to a side
                        veranda, seated ourselves. She looked inquiringly at me.
                    "I do not know why," was my answer. "I only knowI
                        had to come."
                    
                    She studied me calmly. I remember her look, everything about herthe
                        embroidery on the sleeves and bosom of her blouse, the buckles on her white
                        shoes. I remember also that there was a breeze, and how good it felt to my
                        hot face, to my eyes burning from lack of sleep. At last she said:
                        "Wellwhat do you think of my little kingdom?"
                    "It is yoursentirely?"
                    "House, gardenseverything. I paid the last of my debts in
                        June."
                    "I'm contrasting it with my own," I said.
                    "But that isn't fair," she protested with a smile.
                        "You must remember, I'm only a woman."
                    "With my own," I went on, as if she had not interrupted.
                        "Yours isyours, honestly got. It makes you proud, happy.
                        Mine" I did not finish.
                    She must have seen or felt how profoundly I was moved, for I presently saw
                        her looking at me with an expression I might have resented for its pity from
                        any other than her. "Why do you tell me
                        this?" she asked.
                    "There is always for every one," was my answer,  "some person to whom he shows
                        himself as he is. You are that person for me becauseI'm surrounded
                        by people who care for me for what I can give. Even my children care to a
                        great extent for that reason. It's the penalty for having the power
                        to give the material things all human beings crave. Only two persons ever
                        caredcared much for me just because I was myself. They were my motherand
                        you."
                    She laughed in quiet raillery. "Two have cared for you, but you have
                        cared for only one. And what devotion you have given him!"
                    "I have cared for my motherfor my children"
                    "Yesyour children. I forgot them."
                    "Andfor you."
                    She made what I thought a movement of impatience.
                    "For you," I repeated. Then: "Elizabeth, you were
                        right when you wrote that I was a coward."
                    She rose and stoodnear enough to me for me to catch her faint, elusive
                        perfumeand gazed out into the distance.
                    "In St. Louis the other day," I went on, "I  saw a man who has risen to power greater than
                        I can ever hope to have. And he got it by marching erect in the
                        open."
                    "Yet you have everything you used to want," she said
                        dreamily.
                    "Yeseverything. Only to learn how worthless what I wanted was. And
                        for this trash, this dirt, I have givenall I had that was of
                        value."
                    "All?"
                    "All," I replied. "Your love and my own
                        selfrespect."
                    "Why do you think you've not been brave?" she
                        asked after a while.
                    "Because I've won by playing on the weaknesses and fears of
                        men which my own weaknesses and fears enabled me to understand."
                    "You have done wrongdeliberately?"
                    "Deliberately."
                    "But that good might come?"
                    "So I told myself."
                    "And good has come? I have heard that figs do grow on
                        thistles."
                    "Good has come. But, I think, in spite of me, not through
                        me."
                    
                    "But now that you see," she said, turning her eyes to mine
                        with appeal in them, and something more, I thought, "you willyou
                        will not go on?"
                    "I don't know. Is there such a thing as remorse without
                        regret?" And then my self-control went and I let her see what I had
                        commanded myself to keep hid: "I only know clearly one thing,
                        Elizabethonly one thing matters. You are the whole world
                        to me. You and I couldwhat could we not do together!"
                    Her color slowly rose, slowly vanished. "Was that
                        what you came to tell me?" she asked.
                    "Yes," I answered, not flinching.
                    "That is the climax of your moralizings?"
                    "Yes," I answered. "And of my cowardice."
                    A little icy smile just changed the curve of her lips. "When I was a
                        girl, you won my loveor took it when I gave it to you, if you prefer. And
                        thenyou threw it away. For an ambition you weren't brave enough to
                        pursue honorably, you broke my heart."
                    "Yes," I answered. "ButI loved you."
                    "And now," she went on, "after your years of  self-indulgence, of getting what you wanted,
                        no matter about the cost, you see me again. You find I have mended my heart,
                        have coaxed a few flowers of happiness to bloom. You find there was
                        something you did not destroy, something you think it will make you happier
                        to destroy."
                    "Yes," I answered, "I came to try to make you as
                        unhappy as I am. For I love you."
                    She drew a long breath. "Well," she said evenly,
                        "for the first time in your life you are defeated. I learned the
                        lesson you so thoroughly taught me. And I built the wall round my garden
                        high and strong. You" she smiled, a little raillery, a little
                        scorn"you can't break in, Harveynor slip in."
                    "No need," I said. "For I am
                        inI've always been in."
                    Her bosom rose and fell quickly, and her eyes shifted. But that was for an
                        instant only. "If you were as brave as you are bold!" she
                        scoffed.
                    "If I were as brave without you as I should be with you!" I
                        replied. Then: "But you love as a woman lovesherself first, the man
                        afterward."
                    "Harvey Sayler denouncing selfishness!"
                    
                    "Do not sneer," I said. "ForI love you as a man
                        loves. A poor, pale shadow of ideal love, no doubt, but a man's
                        best, Elizabeth."
                    I saw that she was shaken; but even as I began to thrill with a hope so high
                        that it was giddy with fear, she was once more straight and strong and calm.
                    "You have come. You have tried. You have failed," she went
                        on after a long pause. And in spite of her efforts, that deep voice of hers
                        was gentle and wonderfully sweet. "Nowyou will return to your life,
                        I to mine." And she moved toward the entrance to the drawing-room,
                        I following her. We stood in silence at the front doorway waiting for my
                        carriage to come up. I watched hermaddeningly mistress of herself.
                    "How can you be so cold!" I cried. "Don't
                        you see, don't you feel, how I, who love you, suffer?"
                    Without a word she stretched out her beautiful, white hands, long and narrow
                        and capable. In each of the upturned palms were four deep and bloody prints
                        where her nails had been crushing into them.
                    
                    Before I could lift my eyes to her face she was turning to rejoin her
                        workmen. As I stood uncertain, dazed, she glanced at me with a bright smile.
                        "Good-by again," she called. "A pleasant
                        journey!"
                    "Thank you," I replied. "Good-by."
                    Driving toward the road gates, I looked at the house many times, from window
                        to window, everywhere. Not a glimpse of her until I was almost at the road
                        again. Then I saw her backthe graceful white dress, the knot of blue-black
                        hair, the big white hat, and she directing her workmen with her closed white
                        parasol.
                
                
                
                    XXII
                    MOSTLY ABOUT MONEY
                    I went up to New York, to find confusion and gloom at our headquarters there.
                    Senator Goodrich had subtly given the impression, not only to the workers but
                        also to the newspaper men, who had given it to the public, that with his
                        resignation the Burbank campaign had fallen to pieces. "And I fear
                        you'll have some difficulty in getting any money at all down
                        town," said Revell, the senior Senator from New York state, who
                        envied and hated Goodrich and was therefore, if not for personal reasons,
                        amiably disposed toward me. "They don't like our
                        candidate."
                    "Naturally," said I. "That's why
                        he's running and that's why he may win."
                    "Of course, he'll carry everything here in the East. The
                        only doubt was in this state, but I had no difficulty in making a deal with
                        the opposition machine as soon as they had sounded Scarborough  and had found that if he should win,
                        there'd be nothing in it for themnothing but trouble. I judged he
                        must have thrown them down hard, from their being so sore. How do things
                        look out West?"
                    "Bad," said I. "Our farmers and workingmen have
                        had lots of idle time these last four years. They've done too much
                        of what they call thinking."
                    "Then you need money?" asked Revell, lengthening his sly,
                        smug old face.
                    "We must have four millions, at least. And we must get it from those
                        people down town."
                    He shook his head.
                    "I think not," was my careless reply. "When they
                        wake up to the danger in Scarborough's election, the danger to
                        business, especially to their sort of business, they'll give me
                        twice four millions if I ask it."
                    "What do you wish me to do?"
                    "Nothing, except look after these eastern states. We'll
                        take care of the West, and also of raising money here for our campaign
                        during October out there."
                    
                    "Can I be of any service to you in introducing you down
                        town?" he asked.
                    "No, thank you," said I. "I have a few
                        acquaintances there. I'm not going to fry any fat this trip. My
                        fire isn't hot enough yet."
                    And I did not. I merely called on two of the big bankers and four heads of
                        industrial combinations and one controller of an ocean-to-ocean railway
                        system. I stayed a very few minutes with each, just long enough to set him
                        thinking and inquiring what the election of Scarborough would mean to him
                        and to his class generally. "If you'll read his
                        speeches," said I to each, "you'll see he intends
                        to destroy your kind of business, that he regards it as brigandage.
                        He's honest, afraid of nothing, and an able lawyer, and he
                        can't be fooled or fooled with. If he's elected
                        he'll carry out his program, Senate or no Senateand no matter what
                        scares you people cook up in the stock market." To this they made
                        no answer beyond delicately polite insinuations about being tired of paying
                        for that which was theirs of right. I did not argue; it is never necessary
                        to puncture the pretenses of men of affairs with a view to saving  them from falling into the error of
                        forgetting that whatever "right" may mean on Sunday, on
                        week days it means that which a man can compel.
                    I returned to Fredonia and sent Woodruff East to direct a campaign of
                        calamity-howling in the eastern press, for the benefit of the New York,
                        Boston and Philadelphia "captains of industry." At the end
                        of ten days I recalled him, and sent Roebuck to Wall Street to confirm the
                        fears and alarms Woodruff's campaign had aroused. And in the West I
                        was laying out the money I had been able to collect from the leading men of
                        Minnesota, Illinois, Ohio and western Pennsylvaniaexcept a quarter of a
                        million from Howard of New York, to whom we gave the vice-presidential
                        nomination for that sum, and about half a million more given by several
                        eastern men, to whom we promised cabinet offices and posts abroad. I put all
                        this money, not far from two millions, into our "campaign of
                        education" and into those inpourings of delegations upon Burbank at
                        his "rural retreat."
                    To attempt to combat Scarborough's popularity with the rank and file
                        of his own party, was hope-less.  I contented
                        myself with restoring order and arousing enthusiasm in the main body of our
                        partizans in the doubtful and uneasy states. So ruinous had been
                        Goodrich's management that even at that comparatively simple task
                        we should not have succeeded but for the fortunate fact that the great mass
                        of partizans refuses to hear anything from the other side; they regard
                        reasoning as disloyaltywhich, curiously enough, it so often is. Then, too,
                        few newspapers in the doubtful states printed the truth about what
                        Scarborough and his supporters were saying and doing. The cost of this
                        perversion of publicity to usdirect money cost, I meanwas almost nothing.
                        The big papers and news associations were big properties, and their rich
                        proprietors were interested in enterprises to which Scarborough's
                        election meant disaster; a multitude of the smaller papers, normally of the
                        opposition, were dependent upon those same enterprises for the advertising
                        that kept them alive.
                    Perhaps the most far-sightedcertainly, as the event showed, the most
                        fortunatesingle stroke of my campaign was done in Illinois. That state  was vital to our success; also it was one of
                        the doubtful states where, next to his own Indiana, Scarborough's
                        chances were best. I felt that we must put a heavy handicap on his
                        popularity there. I had noticed that in Illinois the violently radical wing
                        of the opposition was very strong. So I sent Merriweather to strengthen the
                        radicals still further. I hoped to make them strong enough to put through
                        their party's state convention a platform that would be a scarecrow
                        to timid voters in Illinois and throughout the West; and I wished for a
                        "wild man" as the candidate for governor, but I
                        didn't hope it, though I told Merriweather it must be done.
                        Curiously enough, my calculation of the probabilities was just reversed. The
                        radicals were beaten on platform; but, thanks to a desperate effort of
                        Merriweather's in "coaxing" rural delegates, a
                        frothing, wild-eyed, political crank got the nomination. And he never spoke
                        during the campaign that he didn't drive voters away from his
                        ticketand, therefore, from Scarborough. And our machine there sacrificed the
                        local interests to the general by nominating a popular and not insincere
                        reformer.
                    
                    When Roebuck and I descended upon Wall Street on October sixteenth, three
                        weeks before election, I had everything in readiness for my final and real
                        campaign.
                    Throughout the doubtful states, Woodruff was in touch with local machine
                        leaders of Scarborough's party, with corruptible labor and
                        fraternal order leaders, with every element that would for a cash price
                        deliver a body of voters on election day. Also he had arranged in those
                        states for the "right sort" of election officers at upward
                        of five hundred polling places, at least half of them places where several
                        hundred votes could be shifted without danger or suspicion. Also, Burbank
                        and our corps of "spellbinders" had succeeded beyond my
                        hopes in rousing partizan passionbut here again part of the credit belongs
                        to Woodruff. Never before had there been so many free barbecues,
                        distributions of free uniforms to well-financed Burbank and Howard Campaign
                        Clubs, and arrangings of those expensive parades in which the average
                        citizen delights. The wise Woodruff spent nearly one-third of my
                        "education" money in this way.
                    
                    One morning I found him laughing over the bill for a grand Burbank rally at
                        Indianapolisabout thirty-five thousand dollars, as I remember the figures.
                    "What amuses you?" said I.
                    "I was thinking what fools the people are, never to ask themselves
                        where all the money for these free shows comes from, and why those who give
                        are willing to give so much, and how they get it back. What an ass the
                        public is!"
                    "Fortunately," said I.
                    "For us," said he.
                    "And for itself," I rejoined.
                    "Perhaps," he admitted. "It was born to be
                        plucked, and I suppose our crowd does do the plucking more scientifically
                        than less experienced hands would."
                    "I prefer to put it another way," said I.
                        "Let's say that we save it from a worse
                        plucking."
                    "That is better," said Doc. For, on his
                        way up in the world, he was rapidly developing what could, and should, be
                        called conscience.
                    I looked at him and once more had a qualm like shame before his moral
                        superiority to me.  We were plodding along on
                        about the same moral level; but he hadascended to that level, while I had
                        descended to it. There were politicians posing as pure before the world and
                        even in the party's behind-the-scene, who would have sneered at
                        Doc's "conscience." Yet, to my notion, they, who
                        started high and from whatever sophistry of motive trailed down into the
                        mire, are lower far than they who began deep in the mire and have been
                        struggling bravely toward the surface. I know a man who was born in the
                        slums, was a pickpocket at eight years of age, was a boss at forty-five,
                        administering justice according to his lights. I know a man who was born
                        what he calls a gentleman and who, at forty-five, sold himself for the
                        "honors" of a high office. And once, after he had shaken
                        hands with that boss, he looked at me, furtively made a wry face, and wiped
                        his hand with his pocket handkerchief!
                    The other part of our work of preparationgetting the Wall Street whales in
                        condition for the "fat-frying"was also finished. The Wall
                        Street Roebuck and I adventured was in a state of quake from fear of the
                        election of "the scourge  of
                        God," as our subsidized socialist and extreme radical papers had
                        dubbed Scarboroughand what invaluable campaign material their praise of him
                        did make for us!
                    Roebuck and I went from office to office among the great of commerce,
                        industry and finance. We were received with politeness, deferential
                        politeness, everywhere. But not a penny could we get. Everywhere the same
                        answer: "We can not see our way to contributing just yet. But if
                        you will call early next weeksay Monday or Tuesday" four or five
                        days away"we'll let you know what we can do." The
                        most ardent eagerness to placate us, to keep us in good humor; but not a
                        centuntil Monday or Tuesday.
                    When I heard "Monday or Tuesday" for the third time, my
                        suspicions were rousing. When I heard it for the fifth time, I understood.
                        Wall Street was negotiating with the other side, and would know the result
                        by Monday, or at the latest Tuesday.
                
                
                
                    XXIII
                    IN WHICH A MOUSE HELPS A LION
                    I did not dare communicate my suspicions to my "dear
                        friend" Roebuck. As it was, with each refusal I had seen his
                        confidence in me sink; if he should get an inkling how near to utter
                        disaster I and my candidate were, he would be upon me like a tiger upon its
                        trainer when he slips. I reasoned out my course while we were descending
                        from the fifth "king's" office to our cab: If the
                        negotiations with the opposition should be successful, I should not get a
                        cent; if they should fail, Wall Street would be frantic to get its
                        contributions into my hand; therefore, the only sane thing to do was to go
                        West, and make such preparations as I could against the worst.
                    "Let's go back to the Holland," said I to Roebuck,
                        in a weary, bored tone. "These people are a waste of time.
                        I'll start home to-night, and when they see in the morning papers
                        that I've left for good, they may come to their senses. But  they'll have to hunt me out.
                        I'll not go near them again. And when they come dragging themselves
                        to you, don't forget how they've treated us
                        to-day."
                    Roebuck was silent, glancing furtively at me now and then, not knowing what
                        to think. "How is it possible to win without them?" he
                        finally said. "This demagogue Scarborough has set the people crazy.
                        I can't imagine what possesses these men of property with interests
                        throughout the country. They are inviting ruin."
                    I smiled. "My dear Roebuck," I replied, "do you
                        suppose I'm the man to put all my eggs into one basketand that
                        basket Wall Street?"
                    And I refused to talk any more politics with him. We dined together, I calm
                        and in the best of spirits; we went to a musical farce, and he watched me
                        glumly as I showed my lightness of heart. Then I went alone, at midnight, to
                        the Chicago Express sleeperto lie awake all night staring at the phantoms of
                        ruin that moved in dire panorama before me. In every great affair there is a
                        crisis at which one must stake all upon a single throw. I had staked all
                        upon Wall Street.  Without its contributions,
                        Woodruff's arrangements could not be carried out.
                    When I descended at the Fredonia station I found De Milt waiting for me. He
                        had news that was indeed news. I shall give it here more consecutively than
                        my impatience for the event permitted him to give it to me.
                    About ten days before, a paragraph in one of Burbank's
                        "pilgrimage" speeches had been twisted by the reporter so
                        that it seemed a personal attack upon Scarborough. As Burbank was a stickler
                        for the etiquette of campaigning, he not only sent out a denial and a
                        correction but also directed De Milt to go to Scarborough's home at
                        Saint X, Indiana, and convey the explanation in a personal message. De Milt
                        arrived at Saint X at eight in the evening. As he was leaving the parlor car
                        he saw a man emerge from its drawing-room, make a hasty descent to the
                        platform, hurriedly engage a station hack and drive away. De Milt had an
                        amazing memory for identitiessomething far rarer than memory merely for
                        faces. He was convinced he knew that man; and being shrewd  and quick of thought, he jumped into a trap
                        and told the driver to follow the hack which was just disappearing. A few
                        minutes' driving and he saw it turn in at a gateway.
                    "Whose place is that?" he asked.
                    "The old Gardiner homestead," was the answer.
                        "President Scarborough lives there."
                    De Milt did not discuss this rather premature entitling of Senator
                        Scarborough. He said: "OhI've made a mistake,"
                        descended and sent his trap away. Scarborough's house was quiet,
                        not a soul about, lights in only a few windows. De Milt strolled in at the
                        open gates and, keeping out of view, made a detour of the gardens, the
                        "lay" of which he could see by the starlight. He was soon
                        in line with the front doorhis man was parleying with a servant.
                        "Evidently he's not expected," thought my chief
                        of publicity.
                    Soon his man entered. De Milt, keeping in the shadows, moved round the house
                        until he was close under open windows from which came light and
                        men's voices. Peering through a bush he saw at a table-desk a man
                        whom he recognized as Senator Scarborough. Seated opposite him,  with a very uneasy, deprecating expression on
                        his face, was John Thwing, president of the Atlantic and Western System, and
                        Senator Goodrich's brother-in-law.
                    De Milt could not hear what Thwing was saying, so careful was that
                        experienced voice to reach only the ears for whom its insinuating subtleties
                        were intended. But he saw a puzzled look come into Scarborough's
                        face, heard him say: "I don't think I understand you,
                        John."
                    Thwing unconsciously raised his voice in his reply, and De Milt
                        caught"satisfactory assurances from you that these alarming views
                        and intentions attributed to you are false, and they'll be glad to
                        exert themselves to elect you."
                    Scarborough smiled. "Impossible," he said. "Very
                        few of them would support me in any
                        circumstances."
                    "You are mistaken, Hampden," was Thwing's answer.
                        "On the contrary, they will"
                    Scarborough interrupted with an impatient motion of his head.
                        "Impossible!" he repeated. "But in any case, why
                        should they send you to me? My speeches speak for themselves. Surely  no intelligent man could fancy that my
                        election would mean harm to any legitimate business, great or small, East or
                        West. You've known me for twenty years, Thwing. You
                        needn't come to me for permission to reassure your friendssuch of
                        them as you can honestly reassure."
                    "I have been reassuring them," Thwing answered. "I
                        tell them that you are about the last man in the world to permit mob
                        rule."
                    "Precisely," said Scarborough. "I purpose to
                        continue to do what I can to break up the mob that is being led on by
                        demagogues disguised as captains of industry and advance agents of
                        prosperityled on to pillage the resources of the country, its riches and its
                        character."
                    This ought to have put Thwing on his guard. But, convinced that the gods he
                        worshiped must be the gods of all men, whatever they might profess, he held
                        to his purpose.
                    "Still, you don't quite follow me," he persisted.
                        "You've said some very disquieting things against some of
                        my friendsof course, they understand that the exigencies of campaigning, the
                        necessity of rousing the party spirit, the"
                    
                    Thwing stopped short; De Milt held his breath. Scarborough was leaning
                        forward, was holding Thwing's eyes with one of those looks that
                        grip. "Do you mean," said he, "that, if
                        I'll assure these friends of yours that I don't mean what
                        I say, they'll buy me the presidency?"
                    "My dear Hampden," expostulated Thwing, "nothing
                        of the sort. Simply that the campaign fund which Burbank must get to be
                        elected won't go to him, but will be at the disposal of your
                        national committee. My friends, naturally, won't support their
                        enemies."
                    De Milt, watching Scarborough, saw him lower his head, his face flushing
                        deeply.
                    "Believe me, Hampden," continued Thwing, "without
                        our support Burbank is beaten, and you are triumphantly electednot
                        otherwise. But on know politics; I needn't tell you. You know that
                        the presidency depends upon getting the doubtful element in the doubtful
                        states."
                    Scarborough stood, and, without lifting his eyes, said in a voice very
                        different from his strong, clear tones of a few minutes before: "I
                        suppose in this day no one is beyond the reach of insult. I  have thought I was. I see I have been
                        mistaken. And it is a man who has known me twenty years and has called me
                        friend, who has taught me the deep meaning of the word shame. The servant
                        will show you the door." And he left Thwing alone in the room.
                    I had made De Milt give me the point of his story as soon as I saw its drift.
                        While he was going over it in detail, I was thinking out all the bearings of
                        Scarborough's refusal upon my plans.
                    "Has Senator Goodrich seen Governor Burbank yet?" I asked
                        De Milt in a casual tone, when he had told how he escaped unobserved in
                        Thwing's wake and delivered Burbank's message the next
                        morning.
                    "I believe he's to see him by appointment
                        tomorrow," replied De Milt.
                    So my suspicion was well-founded. Goodrich, informed of his
                        brother-in-law's failure, was posting to make peace on whatever
                        terms he could honeyfugle out of my conciliation-mad candidate.
                    A few minutes later I shut myself in with the long-distance telephone and
                        roused Burbank from bed and from sleep. "I am coming by the first
                             train to-morrow," I said.
                        "I thought you'd be glad to know that I've made
                        satisfactory arrangements in New Yorkunexpectedly satisfactory."
                    "That's goodexcellent," came the reply. I noted an
                        instant change of tone which told me that Burbank had got, by some
                        underground route, news of my failure in New York and had been preparing to
                        give Goodrich a cordial reception.
                    "If Goodrich comes, James," I went on,
                        "don't see him till I've seen you."
                    A pause, then in a strained voice: "But I've given him an
                        appointment at nine to-morrow."
                    "Put him off till noon. I'll be there at eleven.
                        It'simperative." That last word with an accent I did not
                        like to use, but knew how to useand when.
                    Another pause, then: "Very well, Harvey. But we must be careful
                        about him. De Milt has told you how dangerous he is, hasn't
                        he?"
                    "Yeshow dangerous he tried to be." I was about to add that
                        Goodrich was a fool to permit any one to go to such a man as Scarborough
                        with such a proposition; but I bethought me of Burbank's acute
                        moral sensitiveness and how it would  be
                        rasped by the implication of his opponent's moral superiority.
                        "We're past the last danger, James. That's all.
                        Sleep sound. Good night."
                    "Good night, old man," was his reply in his pose's
                        tone for affection. But I could imagine him posing there in his night shirt,
                        the anger against me snapping in his eyes.
                    On the train the next morning, De Milt, who had evidently been doing a little
                        thinking, said, "I hope you won't let it out to Cousin
                        James that I told you Goodrich was coming to see him."
                    "Certainly not," I replied, not losing the opportunity to
                        win over to myself one so near to my political ward. "I'm
                        deeply obliged to you for telling me." And presently I went on:
                        "By the way, has anything been done for you for your brilliant work
                        at Saint X?"
                    "Oh, that's all right," he said, "I guess
                        Cousin James'll look after meunless he forgets about it."
                        "Cousin James" had always had the habit of taking favors
                        for granted unless reward was pressed for; and since he had become a
                        presidential candidate, he was inclining more than ever to  look on a favor done him as a high privilege
                        which was its own reward.
                    I made no immediate reply to De Milt; but just before we reached the capital,
                        I gave him a cheque for five thousand dollars. "A little expression
                        of gratitude from the party," said I. "Your reward will
                        come later." From that hour he was mine, for he knew now by
                        personal experience that "the boys" were right in calling
                        me appreciative.
                    It is better to ignore a debt than to pay with words.
                
                
                
                    XXII
                    MOSTLY ABOUT MONEY
                    Burbank had grown like a fungus in his own esteem.
                    The adulation of the free excursionists I had poured in upon him, the
                        eulogies in the newspapers, the flatteries of those about him, eager to make
                        themselves "solid" with the man who might soon have the
                        shaking of the huge, richly laden presidential boughs of the plum treethis
                        combination of assaults upon sanity was too strong for a man with such
                        vanity as his, a traitor within. He had convinced his last prudent doubt
                        that he was indeed a "child of destiny." He was resentful
                        lest I might possibly think myself more important than he to the success of
                        the campaign. And his resentment was deepened by the probably incessant
                        reminders of his common sense that all this vast machine, public and secret,
                        could have been set in motion just as effectively for any one  of a score of "statesmen"
                        conspicuous in the party.
                    I saw through his labored cordiality; and it depressed me againstarted me
                        down toward those depths of self-condemnation from which I had been held up
                        for a few days by the excitement of the swiftly thronging events and by the
                        necessity of putting my whole mind upon moves for my game.
                    "I am heartily glad you were successful," he began when we
                        were alone. "That takes a weight off my mind."
                    "You misunderstood me, I see," said I. "I
                        haven't got anything from those people in New York as yet. But
                        within a week they'll be begging me to take whatever I need.
                        Thwing's report will put them in a panic."
                    His face fell. "Then I must be especially courteous to
                        Goodrich," he said, after thinking intently. "Your hopes
                        might be disappointed."
                    "Not the slightest danger," was my prompt assurance.
                        "And if you take my advice, you will ask Goodrich how his agent
                        found Senator Scarborough's health, and then order him out of this
                             house. Why harbor a deadly snake that can
                        be of no use to you?"
                    "But you seem to forget, Harvey, that he is the master of at least
                        the eastern wing of the party. And you must now see that he will stop at
                        nothing, unless he is pacified."
                    "He is the fetch-and-carry of an impudent and cowardly crowd in Wall
                        Street," I retorted, "that is all. When they find he can
                        no longer do their errands, they'll throw him over and come to us.
                        And we can have them on our own terms."
                    We argued, with growing irritation on both sides, and after an hour or so, I
                        saw that he was hopelessly under the spell of his pettiness and his moral
                        cowardice. He had convinced himself that I was jealous of Goodrich and would
                        sacrifice anything to gratify my hate. And Goodrich's sending an
                        agent to Scarborough had only made him the more formidable in
                        Burbank's eyes. As I looked in upon his mind and watched its weak,
                        foolish little workings, my irritation subsided. "Do as you think
                        best," said I wearily. "But when he presents the mortgage
                        you arc going to give him on your presidency, remember my warning."
                    
                    He laughed this off, feeling my point only in his vanity, not at all in his
                        judgment. "And how will you receive him, Harvey?
                        He will be sure to come to you nextmust, as you are in charge of my
                        campaign."
                    "I'll tell him straight out that I'll have nothing
                        to do with him," said I blandly. "The Wall Street
                        submission to the party must be brought to me by some other ambassador.
                        I'll not help him to fool his masters and to hide it from them that
                        he has lost control."
                    I could have insisted, could have destroyed Goodrichfor Burbank would not
                        have dared disobey me. But the campaign, politics in general, life itself,
                        filled me with disgust, a paralyzing disgust that made me almost lose
                        confidence in my theory of practical life.
                    "What's the use?" I said to myself. "Let
                        Burbank keep his adder. Let it sting him. If it so much as shoots a fang at
                        me, I can crush it."
                    And so, Burbank lifted up Goodrich and gave hostages to him; and Goodrich,
                        warned that I would not deal with him, made some excuse or other to his
                        masters for sending Senator Revell to  me.
                        "See Woodruff," said I to Revell, for I was in no mood for
                        such business. "He knows best what we need."
                    "They give up too damn cheerfully," Woodruff said to me,
                        when I saw him a week or ten days later, and he gave me an account of the
                        negotiations. "I suspect they've paid more
                        before."
                    "They have," said I. "In two campaigns where they
                        had to elect against hard times."
                    "But I've a notion," he warned me. "that
                        our candidate has promised them something privately."
                    "No doubt," I replied, as indifferently as I felt.
                    I had intended to make some speechesI had always kept the public side of my
                        career in the foreground, and in this campaign my enforced prominence as
                        director of the machine was causing the public to dwell too much on the real
                        nature of my political activity. But I could not bring myself to it.
                        Instead, I set out for home to spend the time with my children and to do by
                        telephone, as I easily could, such directing of Woodruff as might be
                        necessary.
                    My daughter Frances was driving me from the 
                        Fredonia station. A man darted in front of the horses, flung up his arms and
                        began to shriek curses at me. If she had not been a skilful driver, we
                        should both have been thrown from the cart. As it was, the horses ran
                        several miles before she got them under control, I sitting inactive, because
                        I knew how it would hurt her pride if I should interfere.
                    When the horses were quiet, she gave me an impetuous kiss that more than
                        repaid me for the strain on my nerves. "You are the dearest papa
                        that ever was!" she said. Then"Who was he? He looked like
                        a crazy man!"
                    "No doubt he is," was my reply. And I began complimenting
                        her on her skill with horses, chiefly to prevent her pressing me about the
                        man. I had heard, and had done, so much lying that I had a horror of it, and
                        tried to make my children absolutely truthfulmy boy Ed used to think up and
                        do mischief just for the pleasure of pleasing me by confessing. To make my
                        example effective, I was always strictly truthful with them. I did not wish
                        to tell her who the man was; but I instantly recognized, through the drunken
                        dishevelment,  my mutineer, Granbyless than a
                        year before one of the magnates of the state. My orders about him had been
                        swiftly and literally obeyed. Deserted by his associates, blacklisted at the
                        banks, beset by his creditors, harassed by the attorney general, his assets
                        chained with injunctions, his liabilities given triple fangs, he went
                        bankrupt, took to drink, became a sot and a barroom lounger. His dominant
                        passion was hatred of me; he discharged the rambling and frantic story of
                        his wrongs upon whoever would listen. And here he was in Fredonia!
                    I had one of my secretaries telephone the police to look after him; they
                        reported that he had disappeared.
                    The next morning but one, my daughter and I went for an early walk. At the
                        turn of the main drive just beyond view from the lodge, she exclaimed,
                        "Oh, father, oh!" and clung to me.
                        Somethinglike a scarecrow, but not a scarecrowswung from a limb a
                        overhanging the drive. The face was distorted and swollen; the arms and legs
                        were drawn up in sickening crookedness. Before I saw, I knew it was Granby.
                    
                    I took Frances home, then returned, passing the swaying horror far on the
                        other side of the road. I got the lodge-keeper, and he and I went back
                        together. I had them telephone from the lodge for the coroner and personally
                        saw to it that the corpse should be reported as found in the open woods a
                        long distance from my place. But Granby had left a message "to the
                        public" in his room at the hotel: "Senator Sayler ruined
                        me and drove me to death. I have gone to hang myself in his park. Down with
                        monopoly!" In spite of my efforts, this was published throughout
                        the countrythough not in Fredonia. Such of the big opposition papers as were
                        not under our control sent reporters and raked out the whole story; and it
                        was blown up hugely and told everywhere. Our organs retold it, giving the
                        true color and perspective; but my blundering attempt to avoid publicity had
                        put me in too bad a light.
                    It was the irony of fatemy power thus ludicrously thwarted by a triviality.
                        Within twentyfour hours I realized the danger to our campaign. I sent
                        Woodruff post-haste to the widow. He gave her convincing assurances that she
                        and  her children were to be lifted from the
                        slough of poverty into which Granby's drunkenness had thrust them.
                        And in return she wrote at his dictation and issued an apparently uninspired
                        public statement, exonerating me from all blame for her husband's
                        reverses, and saying that he had been acting strangely for over a year and
                        had been insane for several months. In brief, I did everything suggested by
                        sincere regret and such skill at influencing public opinion as I had and
                        commanded. But not until my reports began to show the good effects of the
                        million dollars Woodruff put into the last week of the campaign, did I begin
                        to hope again.
                    Another hope brightened toward confidence when, on the Saturday before
                        election, I sprung my carefully matured scheme for stiffening those of our
                        partizans who were wavering. The Scarborough speakers had, with powerful
                        effect, been taunting us with our huge campaign fund, daring us to disclose
                        its sources. On that Sunday morning, when it was too late for the opposition
                        to discount me, I boldly threw open a set of campaign
                        ledgers which showed that our fund was  just
                        under a million dollars, with the only large subscription, the hundred
                        thousand which I myself had given. Tens of thousands of our partizans,
                        longing for an excuse for staying with us, returned cheering to the
                        ranksenough of them in the doubtful states, we believed, to restore the
                        floating vote to its usual balance of power.
                    Each horse of my team had taken a turn at doing dangerous, even menacing,
                        threshing about; but both were now quietly pulling in the harness,
                        Partizanship as docile as Plutocracy. The betting odds were six to five
                        against us, but we of the "inside" began to plunge on
                        Burbank and Howard.
                
                
                
                    XXV
                    AN HOUR OF EMOTION
                    It was after midnight of election day before we knew the result, so close
                        were the two most important doubtful states.
                    Scarborough had swept the rural districts and the small towns. But we had
                        beaten him in the cities where the machines and other purchasable
                        organizations were powerful. His state gave him forty-two thousand
                        plurality, Burbank carried his own state by less than ten thousandand in
                        twenty-four years our majority there in presidential campaigns had never
                        before been less than forty thousand.
                    By half-past one, the whole capital city knew that Burbank had won. And they
                        flocked and swarmed out the road to his modest "retreat,"
                        until perhaps thirty thousand people were shouting, blowing horns, singing,
                        sending up rockets and Roman candles, burning red fire, lighting bonfires in
                        and near the grounds. I had come  down from
                        Fredonia to be in instant touch with Burbank and the whole national machine,
                        should there arise at the last minute necessity for bold and swift action.
                        When Burbank finally yielded to the mob and showed himself on his porch with
                        us, his immediate associates, about him, I for the first time unreservedly
                        admired him. For the man inside seemed at last to swell until the
                        presidential pose he had so long worn prematurely was filled to a perfect
                        fit. And in what he said as well as in the way he said it there was an
                        unexpected dignity and breadth and force. "I have made him
                        President," I thought, "and it looks as if the presidency
                        had made him a man."
                    After he finished, Croffut spoke, and Senator Berwick of Illinois. Then rose
                        a few calls for me. They were drowned in a chorus of hoots, toots and
                        hisses. Burbank cast a quick glance of apprehension at meagain that hidden
                        conviction of my vanity, this time shown in dread lest it should goad me
                        into hating him. I smiled reassuringly at himand I can say in all honesty
                        that the smile came from the bottom of my heart. An hour later, as I bade
                        him good night, I said:
                    
                    "I believe the man and the opportunity have met, Mr. President. God
                        bless you."
                    Perhaps it was the unusualness of my speaking with feeling that caused the
                        tears to start in his eyes. "Thank you, Harvey," he
                        replied, clasping my hand in both his. "I realize now the grave
                        responsibility. I need the help of every friendthe true
                        help of every true friend. And I know what I owe to you
                        just as clearly as if she were here to remind
                        me."
                    I was too moved to venture a reply. Woodruff and I drove to the hotel
                        togetherthe crowd hissing me wherever it recognized me. Woodruff looked
                        first on one side then on the other, muttering at them. "The
                        fools!" he said to me, with his abrupt, cool laugh. "Just
                        like them, isn't it? Cheering the puppet, hissing its
                        proprietor."
                    I made no answerwhat did it matter? Not for Burbank's position and
                        opportunity, as in that hour of emotion they appeared even to us who knew
                        politics from behind the scenes, not for the reality of what the sounding
                        title of President seems to mean, would I have changed with him, would I
                        have paid the degrading price he had 
                        
                            "I HAVE MADE HIM PRESIDENT," I
                                THOUGHT, "AND IT LOOKS AS IF THE PRESIDENCY HAD MADE HIM A
                                MAN" p. 203
                            
                        
                         paid. I preferred my own positionif I had
                        bowed the knee, at least it was not to men. As for hisses, I saw in them a
                        certain instinctive tribute to my power. The mob cheers its servant, hisses
                        its master.
                    "Doc," said I, "do you want to go to the Senate
                        instead of Croffut?"
                    By the flames on the torches on either side I saw his amazement.
                        "Me?" he exclaimed. "Why, you forget
                        I've got a past."
                    "I do," said I, "and so does every one else. All
                        we know is that you've got a future."
                    He drew in his breath hard and leaned back into the corner where the shadow
                        hid him. At last he said in a quiet earnest voice: "You've
                        given me self-respect, Senator. I can only sayI'll see that you
                        never regret it."
                    I was hissed roundly at the hotel entrance, between cheers for Croffut and
                        Berwick, and even for Woodruff. But I went to bed in the most cheerful,
                        hopeful humor I had known since the day Scarborough was nominated.
                        "At any rate"so I was thinking"my President, with
                        my help, will be a man."
                
                
                
                    XXVI
                    "ONLY AN OLD JOKE"
                    On the train going home, I was nearer to castlebuilding than at any time
                        since my boyhood castles collapsed under the rude blows of practical life.
                    My paths have not always been straight and open, said I to myself; like all
                        others who have won in the conditions of this world of man still thrall to
                        the brute, I have had to use the code of the jungle. In climbing I have had
                        to stoop, at times to crawl. But, now that I have reached the top, I shall
                        stand erect. I shall show that the sordidness of the struggle has not
                        unfitted me to use the victory. True, there are the many and heavy political
                        debts I've had to contract in getting Burbank the presidency; and
                        as we must have a second term to round out our work, we shall be compelled
                        to make some further compromises. We must have still deal with men on the
                        terms which human nature exacts. But in the main we can  and we will do what is just and right, what helps to realize
                        the dreams of the men and women who founded our countrythe men and women
                        like my father and mother.
                    And my mother's grave, beside my father's and among the
                        graves of my sisters and my grandparents, rose before me. And I recalled the
                        pledge I had made there, in the boyish beginnings of my manhood and my
                        career. "My chance and Burbank's," said I,
                        "comes just in time. We are now at the age where reputation is
                        fixed; and our children are growing up and will soon begin to judge us and
                        be judged from us."
                    Years of patient sowing, thought I, and at last the harvest! And what a
                        harvest it will be! For under the teachings of experience I have sown not
                        starlight and moonshine, but seeds.
                    The next morning I could not rise; it was six weeks before I was able to
                        leave my bed. During that savage illness I met each and every one of the
                        reckless drafts I had been drawing against my reserve vitality. Four times
                        the doctors gave me up; once even Frances lost hope. When I was getting well
                        she confessed to me how she had  warned God
                        that He need never expect to hear from her again if her prayer for me were
                        not answeredand I saw she rather suspected that her threat was not
                        unassociated with my recovery.
                    Eight weeks out of touch with affairs, and they the crucial eight weeks of
                        all my years of thought and action! At last the harvest, indeed; and I was
                        reaping what I had sown.
                    In the second week of January I revolted against the doctors and nurses and
                        had my political secretary, Wheelock, telephone for Woodruffthe legislature
                        had elected him to the Senate three days before. When he had sat with me
                        long enough to realize that I could bear bad news, he said:
                        "Goodrich and Burbank have formed a combination against
                        you."
                    "How do you know?" said I, showing no surprise, and feeling
                        none.
                    "Because"he laughed"I was in it. At least, they
                        thought so until they had let me be safely elected. As nearly as I can make
                        it out, they began to plot about ten days after you fell sick. At first they
                        had it on the slate to do me up,  too. Butthe
                        day after ChristmasBurbank sent for me"
                    "Wait a minute," I interrupted. And I began to think. It
                        was on Christmas day that Burbank telephoned for the first time in nearly
                        three weeks, inquiring about my condition. I remembered their telling me how
                        minute his questionings were. And I had thought his solicitude was proof of
                        his friendship! Instead, he had been inquiring to make sure about the
                        reports in the papers that I was certain to recover, in order that he might
                        shift the factors in his plot accordingly. "When did you say
                        Burbank sent for you?" I asked.
                    "On Christmas day," Woodruff replied.
                    I laughed; he looked at me inquiringly. "Nothing," said I.
                        "Only an old jokeas old as human nature. Go on."
                    "Christmas day," he continued; "I didn't
                        get to him until next morning. I can't figure out just why they
                        invited me into their combine."
                    But I could figure it out, easily. If I had died, my power would have
                        disintegrated and Woodruff would have been of no use to them. When  they were sure I was going to live, they had
                        to have him because he might be able to assassinate me, certainly could so
                        cripple me that I wouldas they reasonedbe helpless under their assaults. But
                        it wasn't necessary to tell Woodruff this, I thought.
                    "Well," said I, "and what happened?"
                    "Burbank gave me a dose of his 'great and gracious
                        way'you ought to see the 'side' he puts on
                        now!and turned me over to Goodrich. He had been mighty careful not to give
                        himself away any further than that. Then Goodrich talked to me for three
                        solid hours, showing me it was my duty to the party as well as to myself to
                        join him and Burbank in eliminating the one disturber of harmonythat meant
                        you."
                    "And didn't they tell you they'd destroy you if
                        you didn't?"
                    "Oh, that of course," he answered indifferently.
                    "Well, what did you do?"
                    "Played with 'em till I was elected. Then I dropped
                        Goodrich a line. 'You can go to hell,' I wrote.
                        'I travel only with men'."
                    "Very imprudent," was my comment.
                    
                    "Yes," he admitted, "but I had to do something to
                        get the dirt off my hands."
                    "So Burbank has gone over to Goodrich!" I went on
                        presently, as much to myself as to him.
                    "I always knew he was one of those chaps you have to keep scared to
                        keep straight," said Woodruff. "They think your politeness
                        indicates fear and your friendship fright. Besides, he's got a
                        delusion that his popularity carried the West for him and that you and I did
                        him only damage." Woodruff interrupted himself to laugh.
                        "A friend of mine," he resumed, "was on the train
                        with Scarborough when he went East to the meeting of Congress last month. He
                        tells me it was like a President-elect on the way to be inaugurated. The
                        people turned out at every crossroads, even beyond the Alleghanies. And
                        Burbank knows it. If he wasn't clean daft about himself
                        he'd realize that if it hadn't been for youwell,
                        I'd hate to say how badly he'd have got left. But then, if
                        it hadn't been for you, he'd never have been governor. He
                        was a dead one, and you hauled him out of the tomb."
                    True enough. But what did it matter now?
                    
                    "He's going to get a horrible jolt before many
                        months," Woodruff went on. "I can see you after
                        him."
                    "You forget. He's President," I answered.
                        "He's beyond our reach."
                    "Not when he wants a renomination," insisted Woodruff.
                    "He can get that without usif," I said.
                        "You must remember we've made him a fetish with our rank
                        and file. And he's something of a fetish with the country, now that
                        he's President. No, we can't destroy himcan't
                        even injure him. He'll have to do that himself, if it's
                        done. Besides"
                    I did not finish. I did not care to confess that since Frances and I saw
                        Granby swinging from that tree in my grounds I had neither heart nor stomach
                        for the relentless side of the game. Indeed, whether from calculation or
                        from sentimentality or from bothor, from a certain sympathy and fellow
                        feeling for all kinds of weaknessI have never pursued those who have played
                        me false, except when exemplary punishment was imperative.
                    "Well" Woodruff looked bitterly disappointed.  "I guess you're
                        right." He brightened. "I forgot Goodrich for a minute.
                        Burbank'll do himself up through thatI'd have to be in a
                        saloon to feel free to use the language that describes him."
                    "I fear he will," I said. And it was not a hypocrisyfor I
                        did not, and could not, feel anger toward him. Had I not cut this staff
                        deliberately because it was crooked? What more natural than that it should
                        give way under me as soon as I leaned upon it?
                    "Your sickness certainly couldn't have come at an unluckier
                        time," Woodruff observed just before he left.
                    "I'm not sure of that," was my reply. "It
                        would have been useless to have found him out sooner. And if he had hidden
                        himself until later, he might have done us some serious mischief."
                    As he was the President-elect, to go to him uninvited would have been
                        infringement of his dignity as well as of my pride. A few days later I wrote
                        him, thanking him for his messages and inquiries during my illness and
                        saying that I was once more taking part in affairs. He did not reply by
                        calling me up on the telephone, as he would 
                        have done in the cordial, intimate years preceding his grandeur. Instead he
                        sent a telegram of congratulation, following it with a note. He urged me to
                        go South, as I had planned, and to stay until I was fully restored.
                        "I shall deny myself the pleasure of seeing you until you
                        return." That sentence put off our meeting indefinitelyI could see
                        him smiling at its adroitness as he wrote it.
                    But he made his state of mind even clearer. His custom had been to begin his
                        notes "Dear Harvey," or "Dear Sayler,"
                        and to end them "James" or "Burbank."
                        This note began "My dear Senator"; it ended,
                        "Yours sincerely, James E. Burbank." As I stared at these
                        phrases my blood steamed in my brain. Had he spat in my face my fury would
                        have been less, far less. "So!" I thought in the first
                        gush of anger, "you feel that you have been using me, that you have
                        no further use for me. You have decided to take the advice of those idiotic
                        independent newspapers and 'wash your hands of the corruptionist
                        who almost defeated you'."
                    To make war upon him was in wisdom impossibleeven had I wished. And when
                        anger flowed  away and pity and contempt
                        succeeded, I really did not wish to war upon him. But there was Goodrichthe
                        real corruptionist, the wrecker of my plans and hopes, the menace to the
                        future of the party. I sent for Woodruff and together we mapped out a
                        campaign against the senior senator from New Jersey in all the newspapers we
                        could control or influence. I gave him a free hand to usewith his unfailing
                        discretion, of courseall the facts we had accumulated to Goodrich's
                        discredit. I put at his disposal a hundred thousand dollars. As every
                        available dollar of the party funds had been used in the campaign, I
                        advanced this money from my own pocket.
                    And I went cheerfully away to Palm Beach, there to watch at my ease the rain
                        of shot and shell upon my enemy.
                
                
                
                    XXVII
                    A DOMESTIC DISCORD
                    After a month in the South, I was well againyounger in feeling, and in looks,
                        than I had been for ten years. Carlotta and the children, except
                        "Junior" who was in college, had gone to Washington when I
                        went to Florida. I found her abed with a nervous attack from the double
                        strain of the knowledge that Junior had eloped with an
                        "impossible" woman he had met, I shall not say where, and
                        of the effort of keeping the calamity from me until she was sure he had
                        really entangled himself hopelessly.
                    She was now sitting among her pillows, telling the whole story. "If
                        he only hadn't married her!" she ended.
                    This struck me as ludicrousa good woman citing to her son's
                        discredit the fact that he had goodness' own ideals of honor.
                    "What are you laughing at?" she demanded.
                    I was about to tell her I was hopeful of the boy  chiefly because he had thus shown the splendid courage that more than
                        redeems folly. But I refrained. I had never been able to make Carlotta
                        understand me or my ideas, and I had long been weary of the resentful
                        silences or angry tirades which mental and temperamental misunderstandings
                        produce.
                    "Courage never gets into a man unless it's born
                        there," said I. "Folly is born into us all and can be
                        weeded out."
                    "What can be expected?" she went on after trying in vain to
                        connect my remark with our conversation. "A boy needs a father.
                        You've been so busy with your infamous politics that
                        you've given him scarcely a thought."
                    Painfully true, throughout; but it was one of those criticisms we can hardly
                        endure even when we make it upon ourselves. I was silent.
                    "I've no patience with men!" she went on.
                        "They're always meddling with things that would get along
                        better without them, and letting their own patch run to weeds."
                    Unanswerable. I held my peace.
                    "What are you going to do about it, Harvey?  How can you be so calm? Isn't there
                            anything that would rouse you?"
                    "I'm too busy thinking what to do to waste any energy in
                        blowing off steam," was my answer in my conciliatory tone.
                    "But there's nothing we can do,"
                        she retorted, with increasing anger, which vented itself toward me because
                        the true culprit, fate, was not within reach.
                    "Precisely," I agreed. "Nothing."
                    "That creature won't let him come to see me."
                    "And you musn't see him when he sends for you,"
                        said I. "He'll come as soon as his money gives out.
                        She'll see that he does."
                    "But you aren't going to cut him off!"
                    "Just that," said I.
                    A long silence, then I added in answer to her expression: "And you must not let him have a cent, either."
                    In a gust of anger, probably at my having read her thoughts, she blurted out:
                        "One would think it was your money."
                    I had seen that thought in her eyes, had watched her hold it back behind her
                        set teeth, many times  in our married years.
                        And I now thanked my stars I had had the prudence to get ready for the
                        inevitable moment when she would speak it. But at the same time I could not
                        restrain a flush of shame. "It is my
                        money," I forced myself to say. "Ask your brother.
                        He'll tell you what I've forbidden him to tell beforethat
                        I have twice rescued you and him from bankruptcy."
                    "With our own money," she retorted, hating herself for
                        saying it, but goaded on by a devil that lived in her temper and had got
                        control many a time, though never before when I happened to be the one with
                        whom she was at outs.
                    "Nowith my own," I replied tranquilly.
                    "Your own!" she sneered. "Every
                        dollar you have has come through what you got by marrying methrough what you
                        married me for. Where would you be if you hadn't married me? You
                        know very well. You'd still be fighting poverty as a small lawyer
                        in Pulaski, married to Betty Crosby or whatever her name was." And
                        she burst into hysterical tears. At last she was showing me the secrets that
                        had been tearing at her, was showing me her heart where they had torn it.
                    
                    "Probably," said I in my usual tone, when she was calm
                        enough to hear me. "So, that's what you brood
                        over?"
                    "Yes," she sobbed. "I've hated you and
                        myself. Why don't you tell me it isn't so? I'll
                        believe itI don't want to hear the truth. I know you don't
                        love me, Harvey. But just say you don't love her."
                    "What kind of middle-aged, maudlin moonshine is this,
                        anyway?" said I. "Let's go back to Junior.
                        We've passed the time of life when people can talk sentimentality
                        without being ridiculous."
                    "That's true of me, Harvey," she said miserably,
                        "but not of you. You don't look a day over
                        fortyyou're still a young man, while I"
                    She did not need to complete the sentence. I sat on the bed beside her and
                        patted her vaguely. She took my hand and kissed it. And I saidI tried to say
                        it gently, tenderly, sincerely: "People who've been
                        together, as you and I have, see each other always as at first, they
                        say."
                    She kissed my hand gratefully again. "Forgive me for what I
                        said," she murmured. "You know I didn't think it,
                        really. I've got such a  nasty
                        disposition and I felt so down, andthat was the only thing I could find to
                        throw at you."
                    "Pleaseplease!" I protested.
                        "Forgive isn't a word that I'd have the right to
                        use to any one."
                    "But I must"
                    "Now, I've known for years," I
                        went on, "that you were in love with that other man when I asked
                        you to marry me. I might have taunted you with it, might have told you how
                        I've saved him from going to jail for passing worthless
                        checks."
                    This delighted herthis jealousy so long and so carefully hidden. Under cover
                        of her delight I escaped from the witness-stand. And the discovery that
                        evening by Doc Woodruff that my son's ensnarer had a husband living
                        put her in high good humor. "If he'd only come
                        home," said she, adding: "Though, now I feel that
                        he's perfectly safe with her."
                    "Yeslet them alone," I replied. "He has at least
                        one kind of sensea sense of honor. And I suspect and hope that he has at
                        bottom common sense too. Let him find her out for himself. Then,
                        he'll be done with her, and her kind, for good."
                    "I must marry him off as soon as possible,"  said Carlotta. "I'll look
                        about for some nice, quiet young girl with character and looks and domestic
                        tastes." She laughed a little bitterly. "You men can
                        profit by experience and it ruins us women."
                    "Unjust," said I, "but injustice and stupidity are
                        the ground plan of life."
                    We had not long to wait. The lady, as soon as Junior reached the end of his
                        cash, tried to open negotiations. Failing and becoming convinced that he had
                        been cast off by his parents, she threw aside her mask. One straight look
                        into her real countenance was enough for the boy. He fled shudderingbut not
                        to me as I had expected. Instead, he got a place as a clerk in Chicago.
                    "Why not let him shift for himself a while?" suggested
                        Woodruff, who couldn't have taken more trouble about the affair if
                        the boy had been his own. "A man never knows whether his feet were
                        made to stand on and walk with, unless he's been down to his
                        uppers."
                    "I think the boy's got his grandmother in him,"
                        said I. "Let's give him a chance."
                    "He'll make a career for himself yetlike his
                        father's," said Woodruff.
                    
                    That, with the sincerest enthusiasm. But instinctively I looked at him for
                        signs of sarcasm. And then I wondered how many
                        "successful" men would, in the same circumstances, have
                        had the same curiously significant instinct.
                
                
                
                    XXVIII
                    UNDER A CRAYON PORTRAIT
                    It was now less than a month before inauguration. Daily the papers gave
                        probable selections for the high posts under the approaching administration;
                        and, while many of them were attributed to my influence, Roebuck's
                        son as ambassador to Russia was the only one I even approved of. As payments
                        for the services of the plutocracy they were unnecessary and foolishly
                        lavish; as preparations for a renomination and relection, the two guiding
                        factors in every plan of a President-elect, they were preposterous. They
                        were first steps toward an administration that would make
                        Scarborough's triumph inevitable, in spite of his handicap of
                        idealism.
                    I sent Woodruff west to find out what Burbank was doing about the places I
                        had pledgedall of them less "honorable" but more lucrative
                        offices which party workers covet. He returned in a few days with the news
                        that, according to the  best information he
                        could get through his spies in Burbank's entourage, all our pledges would be broken; the Sayler-Burbank machine
                        was to be made over into a Goodrich-Burbank.
                    I saw that I could not much longer delay action. But I resolved to put it off
                        until the very last minute, meanwhile trying to force Burbank to send for
                        me. My cannonade upon Goodrich in six thousand newspapers, great and small,
                        throughout the West and South, had been reinforced by the bulk of the
                        opposition press. I could not believe it was to be without influence upon
                        the timid Burbank, even though he knew who was back of the attack, and
                        precisely how I was directing it. I was relyingas I afterward learned, not
                        in vainupon my faithful De Milt to bring to "Cousin
                        James'" attention the outburst of public sentiment against
                        his guide, philosopher and friend, the Wall Street fetch-and-carry.
                    I had fixed on February fifteenth as the date on which I would telegraph a
                        formal demand for an interview. On February eleventh, he surrenderedhe
                        wired, asking me to come. I took a chance; I wired back a polite request to
                        be excused  as I had urgent business in
                        Chicago. And twenty-four hours later I passed within thirty miles of
                        Rivington on my way to Chicago with Carlottawe were going to see Junior,
                        hugely proud of himself and his twenty-seven dollars a week. At the
                        Auditorium a telegram waited from Burbank: He hoped I would come as soon as
                        I could; the matters he wished to discuss were most important.
                    Toward noon of the third day thereafter we were greeting each otherhe with an
                        attempt at his old-time cordiality, I without concealment of at least the
                        coldness I felt. But my manner apparently, and probably, escaped his notice.
                        He was now blind and drunk with the incense that had been whirling about him
                        in dense clouds for three months; he was incapable of doubting the bliss of
                        any human being he was gracious to. He shut me in with him and began
                        confiding the plans he and Goodrich had madecabinet places, foreign posts,
                        and so forth. His voice, lingering and luxuriating upon the
                        titles"my ambassador to his Brittanic Majesty,"
                        "my ambassador to the German Emperor," and so onamused and
                        a little,  but only a little, astonished me; I
                        had always known that he was a through-and-through snob. For nearly an hour
                        I watched his ingenuous, childish delight in bathing himself in himself, the
                        wonderful fountain of all these honors. At last he finished, laid down his
                        list, took off his nose-glasses. "Well, Harvey, what do you
                        think?" he asked, and waited with sparkling eyes for my
                        enthusiastic approval.
                    "I see Goodrich drove a hard bargain," said I.
                        "Yet he came on his knees, if you had but realized it."
                    Burbank's color mounted. "What do you mean,
                        Sayler?" he inquired, the faint beginnings of the insulted god in
                        his tone and manner.
                    "You asked my opinion," I answered, "I'm
                        giving it. I don't recall a single name that isn't
                        obviously a Goodrich suggestion. Even the Roebuck appointment"
                    "Sayler," he interrupted, in a forbearing tone, "I
                        wish you would not remind me so often of your prejudice against Senator
                        Goodrich. It is unworthy of you. But for my tactpardon my  franknessyour prejudice would have driven him
                        away, and with him a support he controls"
                    I showed my amusement.
                    "Don't smile, Sayler," he protested with some
                        anger in his smooth, heavy voice. "You are not the only strong man
                        in the party. And I venture to take advantage of our long friendship to
                        speak plainly to you. I wish to see a united party. One of my reasons for
                        sending for you was to tell you how greatly I am distressed and chagrined by
                        the attacks on Senator Goodrich in our papers."
                    "Did you have any other reason for sending for me?" said I
                        very quietly.
                    "That was the principal one," he confessed.
                    "Oh!" I exclaimed.
                    "What do you mean, Sayler?"
                    "I thought possibly you might also have wished to tell me how unjust
                        you thought the attacks on me in the eastern papers, and to assure me that
                        they had only strengthened our friendship."
                    He was silent.
                    I rose, threw my overcoat on my arm, took up my hat.
                    "Wait a moment, please," he said. "I have always
                             found you very impartial in your
                        judgmentsyour clear judgment has been of the highest usefulness to me many
                        times."
                    "Thank you," I said. "You are most kindmost
                        generous."
                    "So," he went on, not dreaming that he might find sarcasm
                        if he searched for it, "I hope you appreciate why I have refrained
                        from seeing you, as I wished. I know, Sayler, your friendship was loyal. I
                        know you did during the campaign what you thought wisest and best. But I
                        feel that you must see now what a grave mistake you made. Don't
                        misunderstand me, Harvey. I do not hold it against you. But you must see, no
                        doubt you do see, that it would not be fair for me, it would not be in
                        keeping with the dignity of the great office with which the people have
                        intrusted me, to seem to lend my approval."
                    I looked straight at him until his gaze fell. Then I said, my voice even
                        lower than usual: "If you will look at the election figures
                        carefully you will find written upon them a very interesting fact. That fact
                        is: In all the doubtful statesthe ones that elected youScarborough swept
                        everything  where our party has heretofore
                        been strongest; you were elected by carrying districts where our party has
                        always been weakest. And in those districts, James, our money
                            was spentas you well know."
                    
                    I waited for this to cut through his enswaddlings of self-complacence, waited
                        until I saw its acid eating into him. Then I went on: "I hope you
                        will never again deceive yourself, or let your enemies deceive you. As to
                        your plansthe plans for Goodrich and his crowdI have nothing to say. My only
                        concern is to have Woodruff's mattershis pledgesattended to. That I
                        must insist upon."
                    He lowered his brows in a heavy frown.
                    "I have your assent?" I insisted.
                    "Really, Harvey,"there was an astonishing change from the
                        complacent, superior voice of a few minutes before,"I'll
                        do what I canbutthe responsibilitiesthe duties ofof my position"
                    "You are going to take the office,
                        James," said I. "You can't cheat the men who gave it to you."
                    He did not answer.
                    
                    "I pledged my word," I went on. "You gave the
                        promises. I indorsed for you. The debts must be
                        met." Never before had I enjoyed using that ugliest of words.
                    "You ask me to bring myself into unpopularity with the entire
                        country," he pleaded. "Several of the men on your list are
                        ex-convicts. Others are about to be indicted for election frauds. Many are
                        men utterly without character"
                    "They did your work, James," said I.
                        "I guarantee that in no case will the unpleasant consequences to
                        you be more than a few disagreeable but soon forgotten newspaper articles.
                        You haggle over these trifles, andwhy, look at your cabinet list! There are
                        two names on ittwo of the four Goodrich menthat will cost you blasts of
                        public angerperhaps the renomination."
                    "Is this my friend Harvey Sayler?" he
                        exclaimed, grief and pain in that face which had been used by him for thirty
                        years as the sculptor uses the molding clay.
                    "It is," I answered calmly. "And never more your
                        friend than now, when you have ceased to be a friend to himand to
                        yourself."
                    
                    "Then do not ask me to share the infamy of those wretches,"
                        he pleaded.
                    "They are our allies and helpers," I said,
                        "wretches only as I and all of us in practical politics are
                        wretches. Difference of degree, perhaps; but not of kind. And, James, if our
                        promises to these invaluable fellow workers of ours are not kept, kept to
                        the uttermost, you will compel me and my group of Senators to oppose and
                        defeat your most important nominations. And I shall myself, publicly, from
                        the floor of the Senate, show up these Goodrich nominees of yours as
                        creatures of corrupt corporations and monopolies." I said this
                        without heat; every word of it fell cold as arctic ice upon his passion.
                    A long pause, then: "Your promises shall be kept," he
                        assented with great dignity of manner; "not because you threaten,
                        Harvey, but because I value your friendship beyond anything and everything.
                        And I may add I am sorry, profoundly sorry, my selections for the important
                        places do not please you."
                    "I think of your future," I said. "Your talk of friendship"
                    
                    "No, no, Harvey," he protested, with a vehemence of
                        reassurance that struck me as amusing.
                    "And," I went on, "it is in friendship, James,
                        that I warn you not to fill all your crucial places with creatures of the
                        Goodrich crowd. They will rule your administration, they will drive you, in
                        spite of yourself, on and on, from excess to excess. You will put the middle
                        West irrevocably against you. You will make even the East doubtful. You are
                        paying, paying with your whole future, for that which is already yours. If
                        you lose your hold on the people, the money-crowd will have none of you. If
                        you keep the people, the money-crowd will be your very humble
                        servant."
                    I happened just then to glance past him at a picture on the wall over his
                        chair. It was a crayon portrait of his wife, made from an enlarged
                        photographa poor piece of work, almost ludicrous in its distortions of
                        proportion and perspective. But it touched me the more because it was such a
                        humble thing, reminiscent of her and his and my lowly beginnings. And an
                        appeal seemed to go straight to my heart from those eyes that had so often
                             been raised from the sewing in
                        sympathetic understanding of the things I was struggling to make her husband
                        see.
                    I pointed to the picture; he slowly turned round in his chair until he too
                        was looking at it. "What would she say,
                        Burbank," I asked, "if she were with us now?"
                    And then I went on to analyze his outlined administration, to show him in
                        detail why I thought it would ruin him, to suggest men who were as good
                        party men as the Goodrich crowd and would be a credit to him and a help. And
                        he listened with his old-time expression, looking up at his dead
                        wife's picture all the while. "You must be popular, at any cost," I ended. "The industrial
                        crowd will stay with the party, no matter what we do. As long as Scarborough
                        is in control on the other side, we are their only hope. And so, we are free
                        to seek popularityand we must regain it or we're done for. Money
                        won't save us when we've lost our grip on the rank and
                        file. The presidency can't be bought again for you. If it must be bought next time, another figure-head will have to
                        be used."
                    
                    "I can't tell you how grateful I am," was his
                        conclusion after I had put my whole mind before him and he and I had
                        discussed it. "But there are certain pledges to Goodrich"
                    "Break them," said I. "To keep them is
                        catastrophe."
                    I knew the pledges he had in the foreground of his thoughtsa St. Louis
                        understrapper of the New York financial crowd for Secretary of the Treasury;
                        for Attorney General a lawyer who knew nothing of politics or public
                        sentiment or indeed of anything but how to instruct corporations in
                        law-breaking and law-dodging.
                    He thought a long time. When he answered it was with a shake of the head.
                        "Too late, I'm afraid, Harvey. I've asked the men
                        and they've accepted. That was a most untimely illness of yours.
                        I'll see what can be done. It's a grave step to offend
                        several of the most conspicuous men in the party."
                    "Not so serious as to offend the party itself," I replied.
                        "Money is a great power in politics, but partizanship is a
                        greater."
                    "I'll think it over," was the most he had the  courage to concede. "I must look at
                        all sides, you know. But, whatever I decide, I thank you for your
                        candor."
                    We separated, the best friends in the world, I trying to recover some few of
                        the high hopes of him that had filled me on election night.
                        "He's weak and timid," I said to myself,
                        "but at bottom he must have a longing to be President in fact as
                        well as in name. Even the meanest slave longs to be a man."
                    I should have excepted the self-enslaved slaves of ambition. Of all bondmen,
                        they alone, I believe, not only do not wish freedom, but also are ever
                        plotting how they may add to their chains.
                
                
                
                    XXIX
                    A LETTER FROM THE DEAD
                    I was living alone at the Willard.
                    Soon after the death of Burbank's wife, his sister and
                        brother-in-law, the Gracies, had come with their three children to live with
                        him and to look after his boy and girl. Trouble between his family and mine,
                        originating in some impertinences of the oldest Gracie girl, spread from the
                        children to the grown people until, when he went into the White House, he
                        and I were the only two on speaking terms. I see now that this situation had
                        large influence on me in holding aloof and waiting always for overtures from
                        him. At the time I thought, as no doubt he thought also, that the quarrel
                        was beneath the notice of men.
                    At any rate my family decided not to come to Washington during his first
                        winter in the White House. I lived alone at the Willard. One afternoon
                        toward the end of February I returned there from the Senate and found
                        Woodruff, bad news  in his face.
                        "What is it?" I asked indifferently, for I assumed it was
                        some political tangle.
                    "Your wifewas takenvery illvery suddenly," he said. His
                        eyes told me the rest.
                    If I had ever asked myself how this news would affect me, I should have
                        answered that it would give me a sensation of relief. But, instead of
                        relief, I felt the stunning blow of a wave of sorrow which has never wholly
                        receded. Not because I loved herthat I never did. Not because she was the
                        mother of my childrenmy likes and dislikes are direct and personal. Not
                        because she was my wifethat bond had been galling. Not because I was fond of
                        hershe had one of those cold, angry natures that forbid affection. No; I was
                        overwhelmed because she and I had been intimates, with all the closest
                        interests of life in common, with the whole world, even my children whom I
                        loved passionately, outside that circle which fate had drawn around us two.
                        I imagine this is not uncommon among married people,this unhealable break in
                        their routine of association when one departs. No doubt it often passes with
                        the unthinking for love belatedly discovered.
                    
                    "She did not suffer," said Woodruff gently. "It
                        was heart disease. She had just come in from a ride with your oldest
                        daughter. They were resting and talking in high spirits by the library fire.
                        And thenthe end camelike putting out the light."
                    Heart disease! Often I had noted the irregular beat of her hearta throb, a
                        long pause, a flutter, a short pause, a throb. And I could remember that
                        more than once the sound had been followed by the shadowy appearance, in the
                        door of my mind, of one of those black thoughts which try to tempt hope but
                        only make it hide in shame and dread. Now, the memory of those occasions
                        tormented me into accusing myself of having wished her gone. But it was not
                        so.
                    She had told me she had heart trouble; but she had confided to no one that
                        she knew it might bring on the end at any moment. She left a letter, sealed
                        and addressed to me: 
                            
                                
                                    Harvey
                                    I shall never have the courage to tell you, yet I feel you
                                        ought to know. I think every one attributes to every one
                                        else less shrewdness than he possesses. I know you have  never given me the credit of
                                        seeing that you did not love me. And you were so kind and
                                        considerate and so patient with my moods that no doubt I
                                        should have been deceived had I not known what love is. I
                                        think, to have loved and to have been loved develops in a
                                        woman a sort of sixth sensesensitiveness to love. And that
                                        had been developed in me, and when it never responded to
                                        your efforts to deceive me, I knew you did not love me.
                                    Well, neither did I love you, though I was able to hide it
                                        from you. And it has often irritated me that you were so
                                        unobservant. You know now the cause of many of my difficult
                                        moods, which have seemed causeless.
                                    I admired you from the first time we met. I have liked you, I
                                        have been proud of you, I would not have been the wife of
                                        any other man in the world, I would not have had any other
                                        father for my children. But I have kept on loving the man I
                                        loved before I met you.
                                    Why? I don't know. I despised him for his
                                        weaknesses. I should never have married him, though mother
                                        and Ed both feared I would. I think I loved him because I
                                        knew he loved me. That is the way it is with womenthey
                                        seldom love independently. Men like to love; women like to
                                        be loved. And, poor, unworthy creature that he was, still he
                                        would have died for me, though God had denied him the
                                        strength to live for me. But all that God gave himthe power
                                        to lovehe gave me. And so he was different in my eyes from
                                        what he was in any one's else in the world. And I
                                        loved him.
                                    I don't tell you this because I feel regret or
                                        remorse. I don't; there never was a wife truer than
                                        I, for I put him  completely
                                        aside. I tell you, because I want you to remember me right
                                        after I'm gone, Harvey dear. You may remember how I
                                        was silly and jealous of you, and think I am mistaken about
                                        my own feelings. But jealousy doesn't mean love.
                                        When people really love, I think it's seldom that
                                        they're jealous. What makes people jealous usually
                                        is suspecting the other person of having the same sort of
                                        secret they have themselves. It hurt my vanity that you
                                        didn't love me; and it stung me to think you cared
                                        for some one else, just as I did.
                                    I want you to remember me gently. And somehow I think that,
                                        after you've read this, you will, even if you did
                                        love some one else. If you ever see this at all, Harveyand I
                                        may tear it up some day on impulsebut if you ever do see it,
                                        I shall be dead, and we shall both be free. And I want you
                                        to come to me and look at me and"
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    It ended thus abruptly. No doubt she had intended to open the envelope and
                        finish itbut, what more was there to say?
                    I think she must have been content with the thoughts that were in my mind as
                        I looked down at her lying in death's inscrutable calm. I had one
                        of my secretaries hunt out the man she had loveda sad, stranded wreck of a
                        man he had become; but since that day he has been sheltered at  least from the worst of the buffetings to
                        which his incapacity for life exposed him.
                    There was a time when I despised incapables; then I pitied them; but latterly
                        I have felt for them the sympathetic sense of brotherhood. Are we not all
                        incapables? Differing only in degree, and how slightly there, if we look at
                        ourselves without vanity; like practice-sketches put upon the slate by
                        Nature's learning hand and impatiently sponged away.
                
                
                
                    XXX
                    A PHILOSOPHER RUDELY INTERRUPTED
                    After the funeral I lingered at our Fredonia place. There was the estate to
                        settle; my two daughters had now no one to look after them; Junior must be
                        started right at learning the business of which he would soon be the head,
                        as his uncle had shown himself far too easy-going for large executive
                        responsibility. So, I stayed on, doing just enough to keep a face of
                        plausibility upon my pretexts for not returning to Washington. The fact was
                        that Carlotta's death had deepened my mood of distaste into
                        disgust. It had set me to brooding over the futility and pettiness of my
                        activities in politics, of all activities of whatever kind. I watched Ed and
                        my children resuming the routine of their lives, swiftly adjusting
                        themselves to the loss of one who had been so dear to them and apparently so
                        necessary to their happiness. The cry of "man overboard,"
                        a few ripples, a few tears; the sailing on, with the surface  of the water smooth again and the faces keen
                        and bright.
                    Woodruff wrote, urging; then he sent telegram after telegram. Still I
                        procrastinated; for all the effect his letters and telegrams had upon me, I
                        might as well have left them unopened. My final answer was: "Act as
                        you would if I were dead."
                    Probably, what had given my pessimism its somberest tone was the attitude of
                        the public toward Burbank's high appointments. I had confidently
                        predicted that filling all the high offices with men who had no interest but
                        "the interests," men who were notoriously the agents and
                        servants of the great "campaign contributors," would cause
                        a public outcry that could not be ignored. The opposition press did make
                        perfunctory criticisms; but nowhere was there a sign that the people were
                        really angered.
                    I got the clue to this mystery from my gardener, who prided himself on being
                        strenuously of the opposition party. "What do you think of the new
                        administration?" said I when I came upon him one morning at the
                        rhododendron beds.
                    
                    "Much better than I allowed," said he.
                        "Burbank's got good men around him."
                    "You approve of his Cabinet?"
                    "Of course, they're all strong party men. I like a good
                        party man. I like a man that has convictions and principles, and stands up
                        for 'em."
                    "Your newspapers say some pretty severe things about those
                        men."
                    "So I read," said he, "but you know how that is,
                        Mr. Sayler. They've got to pound 'em to please the party.
                        But nobody believes much he sees in the newspapers. Whenever I read an item
                        about things I happen to know, it's all wrong. And I guess they
                        don't get it any nearer right about the things I don't
                        happen to know. Now, all this here talk of there being so many millionairesI
                        don't take no kind of stock in it."
                    "No?" said I.
                    "Of course, some's poor and some's
                        richthat's got to be. But I think it's all newspaper lies
                        about these here big fortunes and about all the leading men in politics
                        being corrupt. I know it ain't so about the leading men in my party, and I  reckon
                        there ain't no more truth in it about the leading men of
                        your'n. I was saying to my wife last night, 'It's
                        all newspaper lies,' says I, 'just like the story they
                        printed about Mrs. Timmins eloping with Maria Wilmerding's husband,
                        when she had only went over to Rabbit Forks to visit her married
                        daughter.' No, they can't fool methem papers."
                    "That's one way of looking at it," said I.
                    "It's horse sense," said he.
                    And I have no doubt that to the average citizen, leading a small, quiet life
                        and dealing with affairs in corner-grocery retail, the stupendous facts of
                        accumulations of wealth and wholesale, far-and-wide purchases of the
                        politicians, the vast system of bribery, with bribes adapted to every taste
                        and conscience, seem impossibilities, romancings of partizanship and envy
                        and sensationalism. Nor can he understand the way superior men play the
                        great games, the heartlessness of ambition, the cynicism of political and
                        commercial prostitution, the sense of superiority to the legal and moral
                        codes which comes to most men with success.
                    Your average citizen is a hero-worshiper too.
                    
                    He knows his own and his neighbor's weaknesses, but he gapes up at
                        the great with glamoured eyes, and listens to their smooth plausibilities as
                        to the reading of the Gospel from the pulpit. He belongs to the large mass
                        of those who believe, not to the small class of those who question. But for
                        the rivalries and jealousies of superior men which have kept them always
                        divided into two parties, the ins and the outs, I imagine the masses would
                        have remained for ever sunk in the most hopeless, if the most delight ful,
                        slaverythat in which the slave accepts his lowliness as a divine ordinance
                        and looks up to his oppressors and plunderers as hero-leaders. And no doubt,
                        so long as the exuberant riches of our country enable the triumphant class
                        to "take care of" all the hungry who have intellect enough
                        to make themselves dangerous, we shall have no changeexcept occasional
                        spasms whenever a large number of unplaced intelligent hungry are forcing
                        the full and fat to make room for them. How long will this be?
                    If our education did not merely feed prejudices instead of removing them, I
                        should say not long. As it is, I expect to "leave the world as
                        wicked  and as foolish as I found
                        it." At any rate, until the millenium, I shall continue to play the
                        game under the rules of human natureinstead of under the rules of human
                        ideals, as does my esteemed friend Scarborough. And I claim that we
                        practical men are as true and useful servants of our country and of our
                        fellow men as he. If men like him are the light, men like us are the lantern
                        that shields it from the alternating winds of rapacity and resentment.
                    But, in running on about myself, I have got away from my point, which was how
                        slight and even flimsy a pretense of fairness will shelter a man in high
                        placeand therefore a Burbank. "He will fool the people as easily as
                        he fools himself," said I. And more than ever it seemed to me that
                        I must keep out of the game of his administration. My necessity of party
                        regularity made it impossible for me to oppose him; my equal necessity of
                        not outraging my sense of the wise, not to speak of the decent, made it
                        impossible for me to abet him.
                    At last Woodruff came in person. When his name was brought to me, I regretted
                        that I could  not follow my strong impulse to
                        refuse to see him. But at sight of his big strong body and big strong face,
                        with its typically American careless good humorthe cool head, the warm
                        heart, the amused eyes and lips that could also harden into sternness of
                        resolutionat sight of this old friend and companion-in-arms, my mood began
                        to lift and I felt him stirring in it like sunshine attacking a fog.
                        "I know what you've come to say," I began,
                        "but don't say it. I shall keep to my tent for the
                        present."
                    "Then you won't have a tent to keep to," retorted
                        he.
                    "Very well," said I. "My private affairs will give
                        me all the occupation I need."
                    He laughed. "The general resigns from the command of the army to
                        play with a box of lead soldiers."
                    "That sounds well," said I. "But the better the
                        analogy, the worse the logic. I am going out of the business of making and
                        working off gold bricks and green goodsand that's no
                        analogy."
                    "Then you must be going to kill yourself," he replied.
                        "For that's life."
                    
                    "Public lifeactive life," said I. "Here, there are
                        other things." And I looked toward my two daughters, whose laughter
                        reached us from their pony-cart just rounding a distant curve in the drive.
                    His gaze followed mine and he watched the two children until they were out of
                        sight, watched them with the saddest, hungriest look in his eyes.
                        "Guess you're right," he said gruffly.
                    After a silence I asked: "What's the news?"
                    A quizzical smile just curled his lips, and it broadened into a laugh as he
                        saw my own rather shamefaced smile of understanding. "Seems to
                        me," said he, "that I read somewhere once how a king,
                        perhaps it was an emperor, so hankered for the quiet joys that he got off
                        the throne and retired to a monasteryand then established lines of
                        post-horses from his old capital to bring him the news every half-hour or
                        so. I reckon he'd have taken his job back if he could have got
                        it."
                    "I reckon," said I.
                    "Well," said he, "the news is that
                        they're about to oust you from the chairmanship of the national
                        committee and from control in this state."
                    
                    "Really?" said I, in an indifferent tonethough I felt
                        anything but indifferent.
                    "Really," said he. "Burbank is throwing out our
                        people throughout the country and is putting Goodrich men in place of
                        'emwherever our fellows won't turn traitor. And
                        they've got hold of Roebuck. He's giving a dinner at the
                        Auditorium to-morrow night. It's a dinner of eleven covers. I think
                        you can guess who ten of 'em are for. The eleventh is for
                        Dominick!"
                    That was enough. I grasped the situation instantly. The one weak spot in my
                        control of my state was my having left the city bosses their local power,
                        instead of myself ruling the cities from the state capital. Why had I done
                        this? Perhaps the bottom reason was that I shrank from permitting any part
                        of the machine for which I was directly responsible to be financed by
                        collections from vice and crime. I admit that the distinction between
                        corporate privilege and plunder and the pickings and stealings and
                        prostitutions of individuals is more apparent than real. I admit that the
                        kinds of vice and crime I tolerated are far more harmful than the other
                        sorts  which are petty and make loathed
                        outcasts of their wretched practitioners. Still, I was snob or Pharisee or
                        Puritan enough to feel and to act upon the imaginary distinction. And so, I
                        had left the city bosses locally independentfor, without the revenues and
                        other aids from vice and crime, what city political machine could be kept
                        up?
                    "Dominick!" I exclaimed.
                    "Exactly!" said Woodruff. "Now, Mr. Sayler, the
                        point is just here. I don't blame you for wanting to get out. If I
                        had any other game, I'd get out myself. But what's to
                        become of usof all your friends, not only in this state but throughout the
                        country? Are you going to stand by and see them slaughtered and not lift a
                        finger to help 'em?"
                    There was no answering him. Yet the spur of vanity, which clipped into me at
                        thought of myself thrown down and out by these cheap ingrates and
                        scoundrels, had almost instantly ceased to sting; and my sense of weary
                        disgust had returned. If I went into the battle again, what work faced me?
                        The same old monotonous  round. To outflank
                        Burbank and Goodrich by tricks as old as war and politics, and effective
                        only because human stupidity is infinite and unteachable. To beat down and
                        whip back into the ranks again these bandits of commerce disguised as
                        respectable, church-going, law-upholding men of propertyand to do this by
                        the same old methods of terror and force.
                    "You can't leave us in the lurch," said Doc.
                        "And the game promises to be interesting once more. I
                        don't like racing on the flat. It's the hurdles that make
                        the fun."
                    I pictured myself again a circus horse, going round and round the ring,
                        jumping the same old hurdles at the same old intervals. "Take my
                        place, Doc," said I.
                    He shook his head. "I'm a good second," said he,
                        "but a rotten bad first."
                    It was true enough. He mysteriously lacked that mysterious something which,
                        when a man happens to have been born with it, makes other men yield him the
                        commandgive it to him, force it on him, if he hangs back.
                    "What do you want me to do?" I asked.
                    
                    "That dinner to-morrow night is in Suite L. Go to itthat's
                        the shortest way to put Roebuck and Dominick out of business. Face
                        'em and they'll skulk."
                    "It's a risk," said I. I saw at once that he was
                        right, but I was in a reluctant humor.
                    "Not a bit of it," was his confident reply. "I had
                        a horse that was crazywould run away on any old provocation. But no matter
                        how busy he was at kicking up the dust and the dashboard, you could always
                        halt him by ringing a bell once. He'd been in the street-car
                        service. That's the way it is with men, especially strong men, that
                        have been broken to the bell. They hear it ring and they can't
                        resist. Go up and ring the bell."
                    "Go ring it yourself," said I.
                    "You're the bell," said he.
                
                
                
                    XXXI
                    HARVEY SAYLER, SWINEHERD
                    At a little after eight the following night, I was in Chicago, was knocking
                        at Suite L in the Auditorium Hotel; I was hearing sounds from within that
                        indicated that the dinner was under way. The door swung back and there stood
                        old Roebuck himself, napkin in hand, his shriveling old face showing that
                        his dollar sense was taking up the strength which his other senses were
                        losing. He was saying cordially, "Ah, Croffut, you are
                        late"
                    Then his dim eyes saw me; he pulled himself up like a train when the
                        air-brakes are clapped on.
                    "They told me at the office that you were at dinner," said
                        I in the tone of one who has unintentionally blundered. "As I was
                        looking for dinner, I rather hoped you'd ask me to join you. But I
                        see that"
                    "Come right in," he said smoothly, but gray  as a sheep. "You'll find
                        some old friends of yours. We're taking advantage of the convention
                        of western manufacturers to have a little reunion."
                    I now had a full view of the table. There was a silence that made the
                        creaking of starched evening shirt-bosoms noisy as those men drew long
                        stealthy breaths when breathing became imperative. All my
                        "clients" and Dominickhe at Roebuck's right. At
                        Roebuck's left there was a vacant chair. "Shall I sit
                        here?" said I easily.
                    "That place was reservedwas forbut" stammered Roebuck.
                    "For Granby's ghost?" said I pleasantly.
                    His big lips writhed. And as my glance of greeting to these old friends of
                        mine traveled down one side of the table and up the other, it might have
                        been setting those faces on fire, so brightly did they flare. It was hard
                        for me to keep my disgust beneath the surface. Those
                        "gentlemen" assembled there were among the
                        "leading citizens" of my state; and Roebuck was famous on
                        both sides of the Atlantic as a king of commerce and a philanthropist. Yet,
                        every  one of those brains was busy most of
                        its hours with assassin-like plottingsand for what purpose? For ends so
                        petty, so gross and stupid that it was inconceivable how intelligence could
                        waste life upon them, not to speak of the utter depravity and lack of
                        manliness. Liars, cheats, bribers; and flaunting the fruits of infamy as
                        honors, as titles to respect, as gifts from Almighty God! And here they
                        were, assembled now for silly plottings against the man whose only offense
                        in their eyes was that he was saving them from themselveswas preventing them
                        from killing the goose that would cheerfully keep on laying golden eggs for
                        the privilege of remaining alive. It was pitiful. It was nauseating. I felt
                        my degradation in stooping to such company.
                    I spoke to Dominick last. To my surprise he squarely returned my gaze. His
                        eyes were twinkling, as the eyes of a pig seem to be, if you look straight
                        into its face when it lifts its snout from a full trough. Presently he could
                        contain the huge volume of his mirth no longer. It came roaring from him in
                        a great coarse torrent, shaking  his vast bulk
                        and the chair that sustained it, swelling the veins in his face, resounding
                        through the silent room while the waiters literally stood aghast. At last he
                        found breath to ejaculate: "Well, I'll be good
                        anddamned!"
                    This gale ripped from the others and whirled away their cloaks of
                        surface-composure. Naked, they suggested a lot of rats in a trapDominick
                        jeering at them and anticipating the pleasure of watching me torment them. I
                        choked back the surge of repulsion and said to Roebuck: "Then where
                            shall I sit?"
                    Roebuck looked, almost wildly, toward the foot of the table. He longed to
                        have me as far from him as possible. Partridge, at the foot of the table,
                        cried outin alarm: "Make room for the Senator between you and Mr.
                        Dominick, Roebuck! He ought to be as near the head of the table as
                        possible."
                    "No matter where Senator Sayler sits, it's the head of the
                        table," said Roebuck. His commonplace of courtesy indicated, not
                        recovered selfcontrol, but the cunning of his rampant instinct of
                        self-preservationthat cunning which men  so
                        often exhibit in desperate straits, thereby winning credit for cool courage.
                    "We're a merry company," said I, as we sat. This,
                        with a glance at Dominick heaving in the subsiding storm of his mirth. My
                        remark set him off again. I glanced at his place to see if he had abandoned
                        his former inflexible rule of total abstinence. There stood his invariable
                        pot of tea. Clearly, it was not drink that enabled him to enjoy a situation
                        which, as it seemed to me, was fully as unattractive for him as for his
                        fellows.
                    Soon the door opened and in strode Croffut; handsome, picturesque, with his
                        pose of dashing, brave manhood, which always got the crowds into the mood
                        for the frenzy his oratory conjured. Croffut seemed to me to put the climax
                        upon this despicable companyCroffut, one of the great orators of the party,
                        so adored by the people that, but for our overwhelming superiority in the
                        state, I should never have dared eject him from office. Since I ejected him
                        he had not spoken to me. Dominick looked at him, said in a voice that would
                        have flared even the warm ashes of manhood into a furious blaze:
                        "Go  and shake hands with Senator
                        Sayler, Croffut, and sit down."
                    Croffut advanced, smiling. "I am fit for my company,"
                        thought I as I let him clasp my hand.
                    "Better tilt Granby's ghost out of that chair,
                        Croffut," said Dominick, as the ex-Senator was seating himself. And
                        in his animal exuberance of delight at his joke and at the whole situation
                        he clapped Roebuck on the shoulder.
                    Roebuck shrank and winced. Moral humiliation he could shed as an armor-plated
                        turret sheds musket-balls. But a physical humiliation, especially with
                        spectators, sank in and sank deep. Instantly, alarmed lest Dominick had seen
                        and understood, he smiled and said: "That's a vigorous arm
                        of yours, Mr. Dominick."
                    "Not bad for a man of sixty," said Dominick.
                    I ate because to eat was a necessary part of my pose of absolute calmness;
                        but I had to force down the food. It seemed to me to embody the banquet
                        there set before my mental appetite. I found I had no stomach for that
                        banquet. It takes the coarse palate of youth or the depraved palate of a
                        more debauched manhood than mine  to enjoy
                        such a feast. Yet, less than a year before, I had enjoyed, had delighted in,
                        a far less strenuous contest with these mutineers. As I sat holding down my
                        gorge and acting as if I were at ease, I suddenly wondered what Elizabeth
                        Crosby would think of me if she could see. And then I saw her, with a
                        reality of imagining that startled meit was as if she were in the doorway;
                        and her eyes lifted to mine in that slow, steady, searching gaze of hers.
                    I suppose, if a soldier thrusting his saber into the bowels of his enemy on
                        the battle-field were suddenly to see before him his mother or the good and
                        gentle wife or daughter he loved, he would drop the saber and fly to hide
                        himself like a murderer. So, I, overwhelmed, said to myself: "I can
                        not go on! Let these wretches wallow in their own vileness. I shall not
                        wallow with them. I am no swineherd!"
                    As I was debating how to escape and what one of the many other ways of saving
                        my friends and lieutenants I should adopt, Dominick touched me on the arm.
                        "A word with you, Senator," said he.
                    
                    He glanced at the others as if he were debating whether he should order them
                        from the table while he talked with me. If he had ordered it, they would
                        have gone. But restrained, perhaps by his crude though reverent sense of
                        convention, he rose and led the way over to a corner.
                    "I want to tell you, Senator, that as soon as I got on to what this
                        here push was plottin', I wired you askin' an appointment.
                        You'll find the telegram at your house when you go home. I
                        don't stand for no foulin'. I play the game straight. I
                        came because I thought you'd want the party to be represented at
                        such a getherin'."
                    I saw that he had come to the dinner, doubtful whether any enterprise against
                        me, promising enough for him to risk embarking, could be launched; as soon
                        as I entered the room he, like the rat when the cat interrupted the
                        rat-and-mouse convention to discuss belling it, unceremoniously led the way
                        to safety. But this was not one of those few occasions on which it is wise
                        to show a man that his lies do not fool you. "I am glad to hear you
                        say these things, Dominick," said I. "I am glad you are
                        loyal to the party."
                    
                    "You can trust me, Senator," said he earnestly.
                    "I can trust your common sense," said I. And I proceeded to
                        grasp this lucky chance to get away. "I am leaving," I
                        went on, "as soon as the coffee is served. I shall look to you to
                        send these gentlemen home in a proper frame of mind toward the
                        party."
                    His eyes glistened. Except his growing fortune, nothing delighted him so much
                        as a chance to "rough-house" his eminently respectable
                        "pals." He felt toward them that quaint mixture of envy,
                        contempt and a desire to fight which fills a gamin at sight of a fashionably
                        dressed boy. He put out his big hand and dampened mine with it.
                        "You can count on me, Senator," he said gratefully.
                        "I'll trim 'em, comb and tailfeathers."
                    "Don't overlook their spurs," said I.
                    "They ain't got none," said he, "except
                        those you lend 'em."
                    We returned to a table palled by sullen dreaddread of me, anger against
                        Dominick who, in the courage of his ignorance of the conventionalities which
                        restrained them, had taken the  short,
                        straight cut to me and peace. And, as veterans in the no-quarter warfare of
                        ambition, they knew I had granted him peace on no less terms than their
                        heads.
                    They had all, even Roebuck, been drinking freely in the effort to counteract
                        the depression. But the champagne seemed only to aggravate their gloom
                        except in the case of young Jamieson. He had just succeeded, through the
                        death of his father, to the privilege of levying upon the people of eleven
                        counties by means of trolley franchises which the legislature had granted
                        his father in perpetuity in return for financial services to "the
                        party." It is, by the way, an interesting illustration of the human
                        being's lack of thinking power that a legislature could not give
                        away a small gold-mine belonging to the public to any man for even a brief
                        term of years without causing a revolution, but could and does give away far
                        more valuable privileges to plunder and to tax, and give them away for ever,
                        without causing any real stir. Howeveryoung Jamieson's liquor,
                        acting upon a mind that had not had enough experience to appreciate the
                        meaning of  the situation, drove him on to
                        insolent taunts and boasts, addressed to his neighbors but intended for me.
                        I ignored him and, when the coffee was served, rose to depart.
                    Roebuck urged me to stay, followed me to the coat-room, took my coat away
                        from the servant and helped me with it. "I want to see you the
                        first thing in the morning, Harvey," said he.
                    "I'll call you up, if I have time," said I.
                    We came out of the cloak-room, his arm linked in mine, and crossed the corner
                        of the diningroom toward the outside door. Jamieson threw up his arm and
                        fluttered his hand in an impertinent gesture of farewell. "So long,
                        Senator Swollenhead," he cried in a thick voice.
                        "We'll teach you a lesson in how to treat
                        gentlemen."
                    The last wordgentlemenwas just clearing his mouth when Dominick's
                        tea-pot, flung with all the force of the ex-prize-fighter's big
                        muscles and big body, landed in the midst of his broad white shirt-bosom.
                        And with the tea-pot Dominick hurled his favorite epithet from his garbage
                        barrel of language. With a yell Jamieson crashed over backward; his flying
                        legs, caught by the  table, tilted it; his
                        convulsive kicks sent it over, and half the diners, including Dominick, were
                        floored under it.
                    All this in a snap of the fingers. And with the disappearance of the physical
                        semblance of a company of civilized men engaged in dining in civilized
                        fashion, the last thin veneer over hate and fury was scraped away. Curses
                        and growling roars made a repulsive mess of sound over that repulsive mess
                        of unmasked, half-drunken, wholly infuriated brutes. There is shrewd, sly
                        wisdom snugly tucked away under the fable of the cat changed into a queen
                        and how she sprang from her throne at sight of a mouse to pursue it on all
                        fours. The best of us are, after all, animals changed into men by the spell
                        of reason; and in some circumstances, it doesn't take much of a
                        blow to dissolve that spell.
                    For those men in those circumstances, that blow proved sufficient. Partridge
                        extricated himself, ran round the table and kicked Jamieson in the
                        headpartly in punishment, perhaps, and because he needed just that vent for
                        his rage, but chiefly to get credit with me, for he glanced  toward me as he did it. Men, sprawling and
                        squirming side by side on the floor, lashed out with feet and fists,
                        striking each other and adding to the wild dishevelment. The candles set
                        fire to the table-cloth and before the blaze was extinguished burned several
                        in the hair and mustaches.
                    Dominick, roaring with laughter, came to Roebuck and me standing at the door,
                        both dazed at this magic shift of a "gentlemen's"
                        dinner into a bear-pit. "Granby's ghost is
                        raisin' hell," said he.
                    But I had no impulse to laugh or to gloat. "Good night,"
                        said I to Roebuck and hastened away.
                    It was the end of the attempt to mine the foundations of my power. But I did
                        not neglect its plain warning. As soon as the legislature assembled, I
                        publicly and strongly advocated the appointment of a joint committee
                        impartially to investigate all the cities of the state, those ruled by my
                        own party no less than those ruled by the opposition. The committee was
                        appointed and did its work so thoroughly that there was a popular  clamor for the taking away of the charters of
                        the cities and for ruling them from the state capital. It is hardly
                        necessary to say that my legislature and governor yielded to this clamor.
                        And so the semi-independent petty princes, the urban bosses, lost their
                        independence and passed under my control; and the
                        "collections" which had gone directly to them reached them
                        by way of Woodruff as grants from my machine, instead of as revenues of
                        their own right.
                    Before this securing of my home power was complete, I had my counter-attack
                        upon the Burbank-Goodrich combine well under way. Immediately on my return
                        to Fredonia from the disastrous dinner, I sent for the attorney general of
                        the state, Ferguson. He was an ideal combination of man and politician. He
                        held to the standards of private morality as nearly as it is possible for a
                        man in active public life to hold to themfar more nearly than most men dare
                        or, after they have become inured, care, to hold. He always maintained with
                        me a firm but tactful independence; he saw the necessity for the sordid side
                        of politics, but he was careful personally to 
                        keep clear of smutched or besmutching work. He had as keen an instinct for
                        popularity as a bee has for blossoms; he knew how to do or to direct
                        unpopular things on dark nights with a dark lantern, how to do or to direct
                        popular things in full uniform on a white horse. I have never ordered any
                        man to a task that was not morally congenial; and I was careful to respect
                        Ferguson's notion of self-respect. I sent for him now, and outlined
                        my planto bring suits, both civil and criminal, in the Federal courts in the
                        name of the state, against Roebuck and his associates of the Power Trust.
                    When he had heard, he said: "Yes, Mr. Sayler, we can break up the
                        Power Trust, can cause the indictment and conviction of Mr. Roebuck. I can
                        prevent the United States Attorney General from playing any of the usual
                        tricks and defending the men whom the people think he is vigorously
                        prosecuting. But"
                    "But?" said I encouragingly.
                    "Is this on the level? If I undertake these prosecutions, shall I be
                        allowed to push them honestly? Or will there be a private
                        settlement  as soon as Roebuck and his crowd
                        see their danger?"
                    "No matter what happens," I replied, "you shall
                        prosecute at least the civil suits to the end. I give you my word for
                        that."
                    He thanked me warmly, for he appreciated that I was bestowing upon him an
                        enormous opportunity for national fame.
                    "And you?" said I. "If you succeed in this
                        prosecution, will you remain in the public service or will you accept the
                        offers the interests will make, and remove to New York and become a rich
                        corporation lawyer?"
                    He reflected before answering. "That depends," said he.
                        "If you are going to stay on in control in this
                        state, I shall stick to public life, for I believe you will let me have what
                        I call a career. But, if you are going to get out and leave me at the mercy
                        of those fellows, I certainly shan't stay where they can fool the
                        people into turning on me."
                    "I shall stay on," said I; "and after me, there
                        will be Woodruffunless, of course, there's some sort of
                        cataclysm."
                    
                    "A man must take chances," he answered.
                        "I'll take that chance."
                    We called Woodruff into the consultation. Although he was not a lawyer, he
                        had a talent for taking a situation by the head and tail and stretching it
                        out and holding it so that every crease and wrinkle in it could be seen. And
                        this made him valuable at any conference.
                    In January we had our big battery loaded, aimed and primed. We unmasked it,
                        and Ferguson fired. I had expected the other side to act stupidly, but I had
                        not hoped for such stupidity as they exhibited. Burbank's year of
                        bathing in presidential flatteries and of fawning on and cringing to the
                        multi-millionaires and their agents hedging him around, had so wrought upon
                        him that he had wholly lost his point of view. And he let his Attorney
                        General pooh-pooh the proceedings,this in face of the great popular
                        excitement and enthusiasm. It was not until Roebuck's lawyers got
                        far enough into the case against him to see his danger that the
                        administration stopped flying in the teeth of the cyclone of public
                        sentiment and began to pretend enthusiasm, 
                        while secretly plotting the mistrial of Ferguson's cases. And not
                        until the United States Attorney Generala vain Goodrich creature whose
                        talents were crippled by his contempt for "the rabble" and
                        "demagoguery"not until he had it forced upon him that
                        Ferguson could not be counter-mined, did they begin to treat with me for
                        peace.
                    I shall not retail the negotiations. The upshot was that I let the
                        administration drop the criminal cases against Roebuck in return for the
                        restoration of my power in the national committee of the party to the
                        smallest ejected postmaster in the farthest state. The civil action was
                        pressed by Ferguson with all his skill as a lawyer and a popularity-seeking
                        politician; and he won triumphantly in the Supreme Courtthe lower Federal
                        Court with its Power Trust judge had added to his triumph by deciding
                        against him.
                    Roebuck was, therefore, under the necessity of going through the customary
                        forms of outward obedience to the Supreme Court's order to him to
                        dissolve. He had to get at huge expense, and to carry out at huger, a plan
                        of reorganization.
                    
                    Though he was glad enough to escape thus lightly, he dissembled his content
                        and grumbled so loudly that Burbank's fears were roused and
                        arrangements were made to placate him. The scheme adopted was, I believe,
                        suggested by Vice-President Howard, as shrewd and cynical a rascal as ever
                        lived in the mire without getting smutch or splash upon his fine linen of
                        respectability.
                    For several years there had been a strong popular demand for a revision of
                        the tariff. The party had promised to yield, but had put off redeeming its
                        promise. Now, there arose a necessity for revising the tariff in the
                        interest of "the interests." Some of the schedules were
                        too low; others protected articles which the interests wanted as free raw
                        materials; a few could be abolished without offending any large interests
                        and with the effect of punishing some small ones that had been niggard in
                        contributing to the "campaign fund" which maintains the
                        standing army of political workers and augments it whenever a battle is on.
                        Accordingly, a revision of the tariff was in progress. To soothe Roebuck,
                             they gave him a tariff schedule that
                        would enable him to collect each year more than the total of the
                        extraordinary expenses to which I had put him. Roebuck
                        "forgave" me; and I really forgave Burbank.
                    But I washed my hands of his administration. Not only did I actually stand
                        aloof but also I disassociated myself from it in the public mind. When the
                        crash should come, as come it must with such men at the helm, I wished to be
                        in a position successfully to take full charge for the work of repair.
                
                
                
                    XXXII
                    A GLANCE BEHIND THE MASK OF GRANDEUR
                    Not until late in the spring of his second year did Burbank find a trace of
                        gall in his wine.
                    From the night of his election parasites and plunderers and agents of
                        plunderers had imprisoned him in the usual presidential fool's
                        paradise. The organs of the interests and their Congressional henchmen
                        praised everything he did; I and my group of Congressmen and my newspapers,
                        as loyal partizans, bent first of all upon regularity, were silent where we
                        did not praise also. But the second year of a President's first
                        term is the beginning of frank, if guarded, criticism of him from his own
                        side. For it is practically his last year of venturing to exercise any real
                        official power. The selection of delegates to the party's national
                        convention, to which a President must submit himself for leave to re-submit
                        himself to the people, is well under way before the end of  his third year; and direct and active
                        preparations for it must begin long in advance.
                    Late in that second spring Burbank made a tour of the country, to give the
                        people the pleasure of seeing their great man, to give himself the pleasure
                        of their admiration, and to help on the Congressional campaign, the result
                        of which would be the preliminary popular verdict upon his administration.
                        The thinness of the crowds, the feebleness of the enthusiasm, the newspaper
                        sneers and flings at that oratory once hailed as a model of dignity and
                        eloquenceeven he could not accept the smooth explanations of his flatterers.
                        And in November came the party's memorable overwhelming
                        defeatreducing our majority in the Senate from twenty to six, and
                        substituting for our majority of ninety-three in the House an opposition
                        majority of sixty-seven.
                    I talked with him early in January and was amazed that, while he appreciated
                        the public anger against the party, he still believed himself personally
                        popular. "There is a lull in prosperity," said he,
                        "and the people are peevish."  Soon, however, by a sort of endosmosis to which the densest vanity is
                        somewhat subject, the truth began to seep through and to penetrate into him.
                    He became friendlier to me, solicitous toward springbut he clung none the
                        less tightly to Goodrich. The full awakening came in his third summer when
                        the press and the politicians of the party began openly to discuss the next
                        year's nomination and to speak of him as if he were out of the
                        running. He was spending the hot months on the Jersey coast, the flatterers
                        still swarming about him and still assiduous, but their flatteries falling
                        upon ever deafer ears as his mind rivetted upon the hair-suspended sword. In
                        early September he invited me to visit himmy first invitation of that kind
                        in two years and a half. We had three interviews before he could nerve
                        himself to brush aside the barriers between him and me.
                    "I am about to get together my friends with a view to next
                        year," said he through an uneasy smile. "What do you think
                        of the prospects?"
                    "What do your friends say?" I asked.
                    
                    "Oh, of course, I am assured of a renomination" He paused,
                        and his look at me made the confident affirmation a dubious question.
                    "Yes?" said I.
                    "Anddon't you think my record has made me strong?"
                        he went on nervously.
                    "Strongwith whom?" said I.
                    He was silent. Finally he laid his hand on my kneewe were taking the air on
                        the ocean drive. "Harvey," he said, "I can count
                        on you?"
                    I shook my head. "I shall take no part in the next
                        campaign," I said. "I shall resign the
                        chairmanship."
                    "But I have selected you as my chairman. I have insisted on you. I
                        can't trust any one else. I need others, I use others, but I trust
                        only you."
                    I shook my head. "I shall resign," I repeated.
                        "What's the matterwon't Goodrich take the
                        place?"
                    He looked away. "I have not seriously thought of any one but
                        you," he said reproachfully.
                    I happened to know that the place had been offered to Goodrich and that he
                        had declined it,  protesting that I, a Western
                        man, must not be disturbed when the West was vital to the party's
                        success. "My resolution is fixed," said I.
                    A long silence, then: "Sayler, have you heard anything of an attempt
                        to defeat me for the nomination?"
                    "Goodrich has decided to nominate Governor Ridgeway of
                        Illinois," said I.
                    He blanched and had to moisten his dry, wrinkled lips several times before he
                        could speak. "A report of that nature reached me last
                        Thursday," he went on. "For some time I have been
                        perplexed by the Ridgeway talk in many of our organs. I have questioned
                        Goodrich about itandI must sayhis explanations are notnot wholly
                        satisfactory."
                    I glanced at him and had instantly to glance away, so plainly was I showing
                        my pity. He was not hiding himself from me now. He looked old and tired and
                        sicknot mere sickness of body, but that mortal sickness of the mind and
                        heart which kills a man, often years before his body dies.
                    "I have come to the conclusion that you were  right about Goodrich, Sayler. I am glad that I took your
                        advice and never trusted him. I think you and I together will be too strong
                        for him."
                    "You are going to seek a renomination?" I asked.
                    He looked at me in genuine astonishment. "It is impossible that the
                        party should refuse me," he said.
                    I was silent.
                    "Be frank with me, Sayler," he exclaimed at last.
                        "Be frank. Be my friend, your own old self."
                    "As frank and as friendly as you have been?" said I, rather
                        to remind myself than to reproach him. For I was afraid of the reviving
                        feeling of former yearsthe liking for his personal charms and virtues, the
                        forbearance toward that weakness which he could no more change than he could
                        change the color of his eyes. His moral descent had put no clear markings
                        upon his pose. On the contrary, he had grown in dignity through the custom
                        of deference. The people passing us looked admiration at him, had a new
                        sense of the elevation of the presidential office.  Often it takes the trained and searching eye to detect in the
                        majestic facade the evidences that the palace has degenerated into a rookery
                        for pariahs.
                    "I have done what I thought for the best," he answered,
                        never more direct and manly in manner. "I have always been afraid,
                        been on guard, lest my personal fondness for you should betray me into
                        yielding to you when I ought not. Perhaps I have erred at times, have leaned
                        backward in my anxiety to be fair. But I had and have no fear of your not
                        understanding. Our friendship is too long established, too
                        well-founded." And I do not doubt that he believed himself; the
                        capacity for self-deception is rarely short of the demands upon it.
                    "It's unfortunate" I began. I was going to say it
                        was unfortunate that no such anxieties had ever restrained him from yielding
                        to Goodrich. But I hadn't the heart. Instead, I finished my
                        sentence with: "However, it's idle to hold a post-mortem
                        on this case. The cause of death is unimportant. The fact of it is
                        sufficient. No doubt you did the best you could, Mr. President."
                    My manner was that of finality. It forbade 
                        further discussion. He abandoned the finesse of negotiation.
                    "Harvey, I ask you, as a personal favor, to help me through this
                        crisis," he said. "I ask you, my friend and my dead
                        wife's friend."
                    No depth too low, no sentiment too sacred! Anger whirled up in me against
                        this miserable, short-sighted self-seeker who had brought to a climax of
                        spoliation my plans to guide the strong in developing the resources of the
                        country. And I turned upon him, intending to overwhelm him with the truth
                        about his treachery, about his attempts to destroy me. For I was now safe
                        from his and Goodrich's vengeancethey had destroyed themselves with
                        the people and with the party. But a glance at him andhow could I strike a
                        man stretched in agony upon his deathbed? "If I could help you, I
                        would," said I.
                    "Youyou and I together can get a convention that will nominate
                        me," he urged, hope and fear jostling each other to look pleadingly
                        at me from his eyes.
                    "Possibly," I said. "Butof what use would that
                        be?"
                    
                    He sank back in the carriage, yellow-white and with trembling hands and
                        eyelids. "Then you don't think I could be
                        elected?" he asked in a broken, breathless way.
                    For answer I could only shake my head. "No matter who is the
                        nominee," I went on after a moment, "our party
                        can't win." I half-yielded to the impulse of
                        sentimentality and turned to him appealingly. "James,"
                        said I, "why don't youright awaybefore the country sees
                        you are to be denied a renominationpublicly announce that you won't
                        take it in any circumstances? Why don't you devote the rest of your
                        term to regaining your lostpopularity? Every day has its throngs of
                        opportunities for the man in the White House. Break boldly and openly with
                        Goodrich and his crowd."
                    I saw and read the change in his face. My advice about the nomination
                        straightway closed his mind against me; at the mention of Goodrich, his old
                        notion of my jealousy revived. And I saw, too, that contact with and use of
                        and subservience to corruption had so corrupted him that he no longer had
                        any faith in any method not  corrupt. All in
                        an instant I realized the full folly of what I was doing. I felt confident
                        that by pursuing the line I had indicated he could so change the situation
                        in the next few months that he would make it impossible for them to refuse
                        to renominate him, might make it possible for him to be elected. But even if
                        he had the wisdom to listen, where would he get the courage and the
                        steadfastness to act? I gave him up finally and for ever.
                    A man may lose his own character and still survive, and even go far. But if
                        he lose belief in character as a force, he is damned. He could not survive
                        in a community of scoundrels.
                    Burbank sat motionless and with closed eyes, for a long time. I watched the
                        people in the throng of carriageshundreds of faces all turned toward him,
                        all showing that mingled admiration, envy and awe which humanity gives its
                        exalted great. "The President! The President!" I heard
                        every few yards in excited undertones. And hats were lifting, and once a
                        crowd of enthusiastic partizans raised a cheer.
                    
                    "The President!" I thought, with mournful irony. And I
                        glanced at him.
                    Suddenly he was transformed by an expression the most frightful I have ever
                        seen. It was the look of a despairing, weak, vicious thing, cornered, giving
                        battle for its lifelike a fox at bay before a pack of huge dogs. It was not
                        Burbankno, he was wholly unlike that. It was
                        Burbank's ambition, interrupted at its meal by the relentless,
                        sure-aiming hunter, Fate.
                    "For God's sake, Burbank!" I exclaimed.
                        "All these people are watching us."
                    "To hell with them!" he ground out. "I tell you,
                        Sayler, I will be nominated! And elected too, by God! I
                        will not be thrown aside like an emptied orange-skin. I will show them that
                        I am President."
                    Those words, said by some men, in some tones, would have thrilled me. Said by
                        him and in that tone and with that look, they made me shudder and shrink.
                        Neither of us spoke again. When he dropped me at my hotel we touched hands
                        and smiled formally for appearances before the gaping,  peeping, peering crowd. And as he drove away, how they cheered
                        himthe man risen high above eighty millions, alone on the mountain-peak, in
                        the glorious sunshine of success. The President!
                    The next seven months were months of turmoil in the party and in the countrya
                        turmoil of which I was a silent spectator, conspicuous by my silence.
                        Burbank, the deepest passions of his nature rampant, had burst through the
                        meshes of partizanship and the meshes of social and personal intimacies in
                        which he, as a "good party man" and as the father of
                        children with social aspirations and as the worshiper of wealth and
                        respectability, was entangled and bound down; with the desperate courage
                        that comes from fear of destruction, he was trying to save himself.
                    But his only available instruments were all either Goodrich men or other
                        kinds of machinemen; they owed nothing to him, they had nothing to fear from
                        hima falling king is a fallen king. Every project he devised for striking
                        down his traitor friends and making  himself
                        popular was subtly turned by his Cabinet or by the Senate or by the press or
                        by all three into something futile and ridiculous or contemptible. It was a
                        complete demonstration of the silliness of the fiction that the President
                        could be an autocrat if he chose. Even had Burbank seen through the fawnings
                        and the flatteries of the traitors round him, and dismissed his Cabinet,
                        whatever men he might have put into it would not have attached themselves to
                        his lost cause, but would have used their positions to ingratiate themselves
                        with the power that had used and exhausted and discarded him.
                    He had the wisdom, or the timidity, to proceed always with caution and safe
                        legality and so to avoid impeachment and degradation. His chief attempts
                        were, naturally, upon monopoly; they were slyly balked by his sly Attorney
                        General, and their failure was called by the press, and was believed by the
                        people, the cause of the hard times which were just beginning to be acute.
                        What made him such an easy victim to his lieutenants was not their craft,
                        but the fact  that he had lost his sense of
                        right and wrong. A man of affairs may not, indeed will not, always steer by
                        that compass; but he must have it aboard. Without it he can not know how far
                        off the course he is, or how to get back to it. No ship ever reached any
                        port except that of failure and disgrace, unless it, in spite of all its
                        tackings before the cross-winds of practical life, kept in the main to the
                        compass and to the course.
                    His last stagger wasor seemed to bean attempt to involve us in a war with
                        Germany. I say "seemed to be" because I hesitate to
                        ascribe a project as infamous to him, even when unbalanced by despair. The
                        first ugly despatch he ordered his Goodrich Secretary of State to send, somehow leaked to the newspapers before it could be put
                        into cipher for transmission. It was not sentfor from the press of the
                        entire country rose a clamor against "deliberate provocation of a
                        nation with which we are, and wish to remain, at peace." He
                        repudiated the despatch and dismissed the Secretary of State in disgrace to
                        disgracethe one stroke in his fight against 
                        Goodrich in which he got the advantage. But that advantage was too small,
                        too doubtful and too late.
                    His name was not presented to the convention.
                
                
                
                    XXXIII
                    A "SPASM OF VIRTUE"
                    I forced upon Goodrich my place as chairman of the national committee and
                        went abroad with my daughters. We stayed there until Scarborough was
                        inaugurated. He had got his nomination from a convention of men who hated
                        and feared him, but who dared not flout the people and fling away victory;
                        he had got his election because the defections from our ranks in the
                        doubtful states far outbalanced Goodrich's extensive purchases
                        there with the huge campaign-fund of the interests. The wheel-horse,
                        Partizanship, had broken down, and the leader, Plutocracy, could not draw
                        the chariot to victory alone.
                    As soon as the election was over, our people began to cable me to come home
                        and take charge. But I waited until Woodruff and my other faithful
                        lieutenants had thoroughly convinced all the officers of the machine how
                        desperate its plight was, and that I alone could repair and restore,  and that I could do it only if absolute
                        control were given me. When the ship reached quarantine Woodruff came
                        aboard; and, not having seen him in many months, I was able to see, and was
                        startled by, the contrast between the Doc Woodruff I had met on the train
                        more years before than I cared to cast up, and the United States Senator
                        Woodruff, high in the councils of the party and high in the esteem of its
                        partizans among the people. He was saying: "You can have anything
                        you want, Senator," and so on. But I was thinking of him, of the
                        vicissitudes of politics, of the unending struggle of the foul stream to
                        purify itself, to sink or to saturate its mud. For we ought not to forget
                        that if the clear water is saturated with mud, also the mud is saturated
                        with clear water.
                    A week or so after I resumed the chairmanship, Scarborough invited me to
                        lunch alone with him at the White House. When I had seen him, four years
                        before, just after his defeat, he was in high spirits and looked a youth.
                        Now it depressed me, but gave me no surprise, to find him worn, and overcast
                        by that tragic sadness which  canopies every
                        one of the seats of the mighty. "I fear, Mr. President,"
                        said I, "you are finding the men who will help you to carry out
                        your ideas as rare as I once warned you they were."
                    "Not rare," was his answer, "but hard to get at
                        through the throngs of Baal-worshipers that have descended upon me and are
                        trying to hedge me in."
                    "Fortunately, you are free from political and social
                        entanglements," said I, with ironic intent.
                    He laughed with only a slightly concealed bitterness. "From
                        political entanglementsyes," said he. "But not from social
                        toils. Ever since I have been in national life, my wife and I have held
                        ourselves socially aloof, because those with whom we would naturally and
                        even inevitably associate would be precisely those who would some day beset
                        me for immunities and favors. And how can one hold to a course of any sort
                        of justice, if doing so means assailing all one's friends and their
                        friends and relatives? For who are the offenders? They are of the rich, of
                        the successful, of the clever, of the socially agreeable and charming. And
                        how can one enforce justice  against
                        one's dinner companionsand in favor of whom? Of the people,
                        voiceless, distant, unknown to one. Personal friendship on the one side; on
                        the other, an abstraction."
                    "I should not class you among those likely to yield many inches to
                        the social bribe," said I.
                    "That is pleasant, but not candid," replied he with his
                        simple directness. "No man of your experience could fail to know
                        that the social bribe is the arch-corrupter, the one briber whom it is not
                        in human nature to resist. But, as I was saying, to my amazement, in spite
                        of my wife's precautions and mine, I find myself besetand with what
                        devilish insidiousness! When I refuse, simply to save myself from flagrant
                        treachery to my obligations of duty, I find myself seeming, even to my wife
                        and to myself, churlish and priggish; Pharisaical, in the loathsome attitude
                        of a moral poseur. Common honesty, in presence of this
                        social bribe, takes on the sneaking seeming of rottenest hypocrisy. It is
                        indeed hard to get through and to get at the men I want and need, and must
                        and will have."
                    "Impossible," said I. "And if you could get  at them, and if the Senate would let you put
                        them where they seem to you to belong, the temptation would be too much for
                        them. They too would soon become Baal-worshipers, the more assiduous for
                        their long abstinence."
                    "Some," he admitted, "perhaps most. But at least a
                        few would stand the testand just one such would repay and justify all the
                        labor of all the search. The trouble with you pessimists is that you
                        don't take our ancestry into account. Man isn't a falling
                        angel, but a rising animal. So, every impulse toward the decent, every gleam
                        of light, is a tremendous gain. The wonder isn't the bad but the
                        good, isn't that we are so imperfect, but that in such a few
                        thousand years we've got so farso far up. I know
                        you and I have in the main the same purposewhere is there a man
                        who'd like to think the world the worse for his having lived? But
                        we work by different means. You believe the best results can be got through
                        that in man which he has inherited from the pastby balancing passion against
                        passion, by offsetting appetite with appetite. I hope for results from that
                        in the man of to-day which  is the seed, the
                        prophecy, of the man who is to be."
                    "Your method has had one recent and very striking apparent success," said I. "Butthe spasm of
                        virtue will pass."
                    "Certainly," he replied, "and so too will the
                        succeeding spasm of reaction. Also, your party must improve itselfand mine
                        tooas the result of this spasm of virtue."
                    "For a time," I admitted. "I envy you your courage
                        and hope. But I can't share in them. You will serve four stormy
                        years; you will retire with friends less devoted and enemies more bitter;
                        you will be misunderstood, maligned; and there's only a remote
                        possibility that your vindication will come before you are too old to be
                        offered a second term. And the harvest from the best you sow will be ruined
                        in some flood of reaction."
                    "No," he answered. "It will be reaped. The evil I
                        do, all evil, passes. The good will be reaped. Nothing good is
                        lost."
                    "And if it is reaped," I rejoined, "the reaping
                             will not come until long, long after you
                        are a mere name in history."
                    Even as I spoke my doubts I was wishing I had kept them to myself; for,
                        thought I, there's no poorer business than shooting at the
                        beautiful soaring bird of illusion. But he was looking at me without seeing
                        me. His expression suggested the throwing open of the blinds hiding a
                        man's inmost self.
                    "If a man," said he absently, "fixes his mind not
                        on making friends or defeating enemies, not on elections or on history, but
                        just on avoiding from day to day, from act to act, the condemnation of his
                        own self-respect" The blinds closed as suddenly as they had
                        openedhe had become conscious that some one was looking in. And I was
                        wishing again that I had kept my doubts to myself; for I now saw that what I
                        had thought a bright bird of illusion was in fact the lost star which
                        lighted my own youth.
                    Happy the man who, through strength or through luck, guides his whole life by
                        the star of his youth. Happy, but how rare!
                
                
                
                    XXXIV
                    "LET US HELP EACH OTHER"
                    In the following September I took my daughters to Elizabeth. She looked
                        earnestly, first at Frances, tall and slim and fancying herself a woman
                        grown, then at Ellen, short and round and struggling with the giggling age.
                        "We shall like each other, I'm sure," was her
                        verdict. "We'll get on well together." And
                        Frances smiled, and Ellen nodded. They evidently thought so, too.
                    "I want you to teach them your art," said I, when they were
                        gone to settle themselves and she and I were alone.
                    "My art?"
                    "The art of being one's self. I am sick of men and women
                        who hide their real selves behind a pose of what they want others to think
                        them."
                    "Most of our troubles come from that, don't they?"
                    "All mine did," said I. "I am at the age when the
                        very word age begins to jar on the ear, and 
                        the net result of my years of effort isI have convinced other people that I
                        am somebody at the cost of convincing myself that I am nobody."
                    "No, you are master," she said.
                    "As a lion-tamer is master of his lions. He gives all his thought to
                        them, who think only of their appetites. And his whole reward is that with
                        his life in his hand he can sometimes cow them through a few worthless
                        little tricks." I looked round the attractive reception-room of the
                        school. "I wish you'd take me in,
                        too," I ended.
                    She flushed a little, then shook her head, her eyes twinkling. "This
                        is not a reformatory," said she. And we both laughed.
                    As I did not speak or look away, but continued to smile at her, she became
                        uneasy, glanced round as if seeking an avenue of retreat.
                    "YesI mean just that, Elizabeth," I admitted, and my tone
                        explained the words.
                    She clasped her hands and started up.
                    "In mein every one," I went on, "there's
                        a beast and a man. Just nowwith methe man  is
                        uppermost. And he wants to stay uppermost. Elizabethwill youhelp
                        him?"
                    She lowered her head until I could see only the splendor of her thick hair,
                        sparkling like black quartz.
                    "Will youdear? Won't youdear?"
                    Suddenly she gave me both her hands. "Let us help each
                        other," she said. And slowly she lifted her glance to mine; and
                        never before had I felt the full glory of those eyes, the full melody of
                        that deep voice.
                    And so, I end as I began, as life begins and endswith a woman. In a
                        woman's arms we enter life; in a woman's arms we get the
                        courage and strength to bear it; in a woman's arms we leave it. And
                        as for the span betweenthe business, profession, careerhow colorless, how
                        meaningless it would be but for her!
                    THE END
                
            
        
    
